ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 85th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that Members Ivan Hršak and Mags cannot attend today's meeting. Branislav Rajić. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 85th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 15 October 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 85th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDED RELEVANT MEASURES IN THE COUNTRY AND THE EMERGENCY OF PREVIOUS LOVE. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matei Tašner Vatovec. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tašner Vatovci requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Matthew Tašner Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the last year and a half, Slovenia has become different. It is true that life in many countries in the world has changed, that there are different social relationships, that even certain policies have changed. All of this, of course, was marked by an epidemic or pandemic of covid-19 virus - it also affected the lives of people in our country - but we are then in parallel in the second year of witness to another process that could be called the jancist transformation. The onset of the current government and the application of its harmful policies must have marked Slovenia more than the awe of extremely infectious diseases. At first, the government began to manage the epidemic and caused us today to have one of the worst statistics on the day-to-day rise of infections, on the pervasiveness of the entire population and on the number of Covid deaths, per 100,000 inhabitants. When she was unable to address people, to organise activities and to protect at least the most vulnerable groups, she engaged all possible resources for the implementation of the partial interests and its destruction programme. The effect is a long series of controversial actions, ranging from corrupt procurement of protective equipment to comprehensive change of personnel. Among the first, if you remember the leading man at the Bureau of Statistics, today we see why this is important. Last but not least until the desant to all the state institutions that have their martyrdom in the Slovenian Press Agency, which is now the 299th day without payment for the public service performed. During this period, the President of the Government and his ministers, of course, did not take the time to discredit, insult and threaten employees in public administration, independent institutions, the judiciary, journalists and not least the general public. To anyone who thinks otherwise than them. In short, if we were able to say that we are not going down, today the limit of the aorta of this government is as infinite as the edge of the universe. These actions and this behavior have led us to have 80 weeks of thousands of people protesting on Fridays, demanding practically one thing, and this is the resignation of the government. Now, after a new month or so, an additional crowd of mixed political or non-political imaginators protesting Wednesdays and also having the government's resignation among their demands. With this measurement [[?]] Public opinion has consistently noted dissatisfaction with the Government, which ranges between 60% and 75%. Thus, it appears that in a situation where we have one Slovenia on the one hand in which it is, we can say with certainty, the vast majority of people are dissatisfied with the current ruling click, and, on the other hand, Slovenia has the same clicks that are alienated and does not see any problem, as in the media and journalists, independent institutions and their leaders and, finally, in the opposition and its political representatives. In this other Slovenia there is no problem that the ministries are occupied by people who are in judicial investigations for tax evasion, and also by the suspected fraud, as Minister Dikaucič. They understand taxes as nonsense and have used their political influence for their own purposes in the past, and they are probably now acting the same as Minister Visjak. They purchase military equipment and therefore check directly the possibility of payment at Banka Slovenije, as Minister of Tonin, over all customary practices. They finance party media from ministries, like Minister Cigler King. In order to raise vaccinated statistics, they accept non-professional recommendations which, as we have seen, could also result in death as Minister Poklukar. They're comparing the employees of the authorities in the Ministry of Lazyness and Lazyness, as Minister Hojs does. And so on and we could still list. In short. People who, in every normal government and in the eyes of the people of that first Slovenia, should step down and do so, in this second Slovenia of their own, are asking in fact, to whom and why they should even answer. There's only a blue sky above them. When the government is marked by another special circumstance. Like the fragmented public on the streets, this congregation is also divided. Therefore, a number of important decisions in the form of law are constantly under question and, therefore, at a certain point, this Government has decided to start rulings, at least as far as control is concerned, on the management of the epidemic. Thus, in one of the least democratic ways, we have received a series of measures, which should otherwise be adopted as laws, in the form of government decisions, which have been taken in a confused manner, amended and communicated even more confusedly. All of this has gradually been imposed and the right conditions for a complete storm have been established. This perfect storm, which is due to the relationship of someone hiding in an ivory tower with no contact with reality, manifested itself right on Tuesday, October 5, this year, in the center of Ljubljana, in the late afternoon hours. Tuesday, 5. 10. is the day that will be marked with lowness. This day did not happen on its own, but street violence was provoked by the authorities and carried out with the help of police forces. On this day, the government, together with the high guests, took oil on the Hill far away from its people, flooded its own people. They've poisoned the children, the elderly, and all the passersby. In the clouds of tear gas, streets were bathed in the center of the city, including playgrounds and parks. The police have apparently succumbed to the pressure of politics and the failure of the Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs on Twitter. These two found that the police in previous protests were too determined and how people understood only the hard hand. By doing so, they forced the police into non-professional conduct, when the maximum of the least used force no longer applies, but only the greatest possible use of force, which should act as a fearsome form of general prevention, so that people would no longer publicly express their opinions on the street. This opinion is, of course, contrary to what the government is presenting. This directly affected the fact that in the middle of the day, with the complete absence of any incident by the protestors, the police were the ones who actually triggered the violence by excessive use of force. This speaks primarily of one thing: that this government is capable of ruling in one way or another, violence and violence. The water cannon that waters people mixed with tear gas and 400 fired gas bullets are the tragic cartoons of this government, a government that doesn't care about people, it doesn't care about the country, it only cares about its own partisan interests. Therefore, at this point, only one solution is possible, if we do not want the state not to degenerate fully, early elections. And that is the essence of our recommendations. The elections, which will give you a new coalition that will take care of all, not only of the partisan party interests and the agenda that will provide the means to strengthen the social state, but not of drilling holes in the budget with tax breaks for 6% of the best paid in that country, will strengthen public health care, but will not secretly exhaust it and thus push the way for its privatisation, which will actually plan for social and fair long-term care, not for its privatisation, and which will take care of young people with active social and housing policies, but not with supplements for large families. This government has failed at all points, so it is time to leave and leave the vast majority of people in this first Slovenia, to one where the vast majority see no success of this government, to breathe normally and to begin looking into the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u3	Thank you very much. At its 55th emergency meeting, on 22 October, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft recommendation as the working body. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the draft report after the discussion, consideration of the draft report was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u4	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 55th emergency meeting, 22. Ten. 2021 considered a proposal for a recommendation concerning the worrying situation in the country and the urgency of the early elections submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovec. Following an introductory presentation by the representative of the proposer, the government representative presented the government's opinion and explained that the government rejects the proposal as unnecessary, as its implementation would not help to improve the situation in the country in any way. Possible early elections could be used by the organisers of violent protests to further aggravate security. The resignation of the government would also significantly weaken the state's ability to control the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic, resulting in overload and collapse of the public health system. He further explained the individual points of the recommendation and concluded that the recommendation on the resignation of the Government was unnecessary. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposal for a recommendation as a proposal for an act of the National Assembly in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. His representative explained in the introduction what the business and substantive nature of the recommendations were as an act of the National Assembly. With regard to paragraphs 1, 2 and 5, it noted that the call for a discharge or resignation was not a measure to which the Government’s recommendation could apply, but that the proposed content was also not within the competence of the National Assembly. It also pointed out in relation to points 3 and 4 of the proposal that there is a systemic regulation of the status of the body in its composition and the basic starting points of the constitutional regime, which is not a content that could be considered at the level of the recommendations as legally non-binding political acts. In the debate, opposition discussers felt that the government was deliberately creating emergency situations, and the Minister of the Interior stood at the top of everything besides the Prime Minister. Under his presence, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, under section 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the government has activated police powers to prohibit movement in public places. They explained that the very process of creating extraordinary conditions in Slovenia is long and systematic. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of and with the excuse of fighting the COPID-19 epidemic, has begun to rule by decrees and has pointed out that the Constitution has already established that it cannot be ruled by them, as there is no legal predictability. There is also pressure from the government on the judiciary and all of this affects the emergence of protests, which are a spontaneous response of people to the situation in the country. They explained that several of the ministers in the investigations and the government had received political and inquisitorial recruitment. They also touched on the envisaged supervision of the general police administration regarding the 5 October 2021 protests, which they considered questionable the independence of the commission appointed by the Director-General of Police and pointed out that the risk assessment of the protests was lower than the actual situation. Finally, they stressed that the crowd could also rule at the 5 October protests without tear gas and other coercive means, and that, if any, they should apply the principle of proportionality and also point out the biological inability to tolerate tear gas in service animals. However, the Coalition Members considered that the right to assembly and association was clearly defined in Article 42 of the Constitution, which provides, inter alia, that the legal restrictions on the right to collection and association are permissible if State security or public protection so requires and protection against the spread of communicable diseases. They explained that the organisers of the protests were obliged to report, protect and answer for them. If meetings are undeclared and there is no guarantee of public order and peace, the police have the right to dissolve them. They pointed out that, at the time of the protest on 5 October, Slovenia, as President of the Council of the European Union, organised an event with international participation in which the police were responsible for ensuring public order and the security of the highest-ranking persons. Finally, they presented government achievements in the field of investment, Presidency, good international relations, development-oriented budgets for 2022 and 2023 and the provision of high economic growth, and explained that this is legitimate and carries out its tasks. The Committee then voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them and was therefore on the basis of [[sign for the end of the debate]] interpretations by the Commission of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. 2009 discusses the proposal for Recommendations on the worrying situation in the country and the urgency of early elections in the home working body has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Mr. Franz Kangler, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, allow me to begin by sincerely congratulating you on the State holiday. 30 years ago on yesterday, we became free, independent, and above all, a sovereign state without a foreign soldier on its territory. That's why I sincerely congratulate you. And I sincerely congratulate all those who fought this sovereignty in 1991 and exposed themselves to their lives so that we can discuss democracy here today. The KUL Coalition claims to make Slovenia different today. True, Slovenia is different today. In Slovenia today, some who support the coalition are blackmailing in a way that is not an example of democracy and a democratic way. Sending envelopes, a charge to pressure and exert pressure on family members, by undemocratically destroying a government that has been elected democratically is not comparable. Slovenia is different today. It is true that Slovenia is proud today that it has managed to come to the very top after unemployment, according to the OECD (Organisation for Economy, Cooperation and Development) assessment, Slovenia is all at the top of 3.9% of unemployment, so we are successful. Slovenia is currently successfully chairing the European Union. We can be proud of the presidency. All Europe trusts us. The only cool coalition is concerned with the very top when 40 protected people come to the invitation of the president, who leads Europe to the very top of Europe. They are not concerned about the rule of law in Brussels when it comes to the Radonjić case. The rule of law of such judges never suspends such judges and solves the issue within the third branch of power. The reason for today's extraordinary session, which has been convened, is against government protests that have been illegal, undeclared, unorganized. However, protests were taking place against the government, but it is interesting that these protests were always announced on Wednesday. Only then on October 5th was someone who illegally organised protests to these organisers to organise the protest on Tuesday afternoon. Various comments were published on the Internet, but mainly various calls were made. Calls for non-compliance with police orders, failure to respect the rule of law, the blockade of Ljubljana, the blockade of Kranj, the blockade of the highway in terms of showing Europe that we are not able to lead Europe, that is not what happened. Someone is disappointed because, according to the Constitution, the police have reacted quickly and effectively to the law, especially legally. As some made recommendations in the request, although the recommendation was not accepted, I must nevertheless comment on the proposal for recommendations adopted by the Government and responded to the recommendations. In point 1, you request the replacement of Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs. You can tell him that he proposed to the Government under Article 9 of the Police Powers Act to appoint protected areas in Brdo, Ljubljana, Bled. The government accepted this and the police reacted accordingly. Through the means of public information, all citizens, citizens, have been informed of this measure. To change the minister, because he does well, to change the minister, because he has made sure that the police have good equipment, that the police are equipped as necessary for the modern police, of course, the working conditions are exceeded by every word in the light of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of your National Assembly, that the opposition has every opportunity not to make recommendations in the government, but by law that gives the basis for the Minister's 46 votes on interpretation may be replaced, or that the President of the Government may give the untrust in this way. This is democratic, but it is undemocratic to threaten someone by voting on Members, by threatening his family, by evicting his family or by blackmailing a Member. It is imperative to prevent this from happening. On point 2 of the recommendation, the Government notes that there are no reasons for the discharge of the Director-General of the Police, Dr Anton Ola. You can tell him that he exceeded his powers regarding the use of coercive means when they were used in these protests. Dr. Anton Olaj also ordered a commission under Article 133 of the same law, to set up a commission to verify the application of these measures. To tell someone who has worked his entire life in the police, such as Dr. Anton Olaj, who has been employed as a police officer, then a militiaman, a criminalist, a leader of the economic sector in Novi Grad, was finally the director of the Novo Mesto Police Administration with all the experience, spent more than 35 years in the police force, not being able to be the director of the police, not knowing the work of the police. Dr. Anton Olaj is well aware of the work of the police, but in particular he knows the powers of the police and is aware of all responsibilities and is ready to explain all the circumstances that have been in each committee of the National Assembly. She's a police officer and she'll always be professional, independent. At the time of the visit of the Minister of the Interior, members of the SDS were present at police stations in various regions. True, not only were they members of the SDS, but all municipal councillors were invited, all municipal councillors from that region, including mayors from other parties, not just SDS. It is painful because no one here from the opposition accepts when the mayor of the opposition parties praises the existing government. We are witnessing that such mayors are excluded from their political parties because Minister Aleš Hojs has listened to the problems of migration in that area and has helped all municipalities that have met the migration flows of the immediate environment where the mayors of the various parties are mayors. Not only did he provide 2 million 800 last year, this year 2 million and a half million that all border communities received reimbursements due to migration pressures. So we're talking exclusion. You know, somebody's off the hook, but they know who's connecting. Point 5 recommended that the Government resign. You know, this is exactly the same if the government decided that one of the KUL coalition leaders should resign or resign as party president. We have already witnessed the involvement of some other political parties, but this is not done in normal democracy. It does not work when someone interferes with another political option or client. Someone did not accept it because he was unable to take the government to the end so that another government could lead things better and better than the previous one. And there is no reason in this government why the former government has fallen apart. We all know why and who brought down the previous government. But the pain of some today is such that they do not accept it in a legitimate, normal democratic way. So on Wednesdays, we have anti-government protests, Fridays, bikers, some taking pictures of them, thus giving legitimacy to these protests, which are undeclared, which are unorganised, which are contrary to existing legislation. And at the end of the day, allow me to confess to Minister Hoys' input. Why? I have a reference here for today's extraordinary session. This reference to an extraordinary meeting is an identical document, as tabled by KUL members for the resolution of Minister Aleš Hojs, a copy of the trap to the branch. And today, on behalf of the government, I am wondering what we are going to discuss. The content you have proposed for an extraordinary session is exactly the same as that of Minister Aleš Hojs. Unfortunately, these are our findings, but we are confident that the Government will carry out this mandate to the end, so that the Presidency will expire just as one modern democratic state will, and above all we want this Government to unite and unite and exclude no one. To connect and unite those people who think well for Slovenia and the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We continue with the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Yes, here we go. [[…]] The first is Mrs Natasa Sukič, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! Black Tuesday is just another piece of evidence that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is creating an extraordinary situation, and on top of everything there is Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs at the top of everything. Under his authority, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the Government has activated police powers to prohibit movement in public places in Ljubljana, Bled and around Brda pri Kranj. As of Tuesday, October 5, Ljubljana's residents expected a barricaded city centre, thousands of police officers in special equipment, cavalry, police dogs, water cannon and 400 gas launchers. The creation of emergency situations takes place systematically from the first day of the reintroduction of power by Janez Janša. On behalf of the fight against the epidemic, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia rules by decree. The ministers of the decrees shall adopt decisions mainly at evening and night written meetings, almost without discussion, with the possibility of co-decision, and the meetings shall be held for a short period of time in accordance with government rules and shall not be considered to be in agreement with the proposal by a member or a member of the Government. [[Incomprehensible]] The problem of this kind of behavior is double. The first is non-democraticism, since the executive branch is also trying to assume the tasks of the legislative branch of power. When the government no longer has legitimacy, when there is no majority guaranteed in the National Assembly, while the support of the Government in the public is extremely low and varies between 22% and 30%, it resorts to more authoritarian solutions to rule by decrees, to rule by force and to rule by force. An additional problem with such conduct is the chaos created by the Government by the day - to - day decrees. People don't even know what's allowed or what isn't. This is the best way in society by means of legal instruments to create situations that are totally contrary to the basic principles and guidelines of the legal system, contrary to the provision of predictable and as secret rules governing social relations. That chaos has not only a random side effect, the inability to rule with minority support in the National Assembly, but is the goal of the Government of Janez Janša proves the daily communication of visible representatives of the Government from the President of the Government to ministers and state secretaries. The government of Janez Janša has consistently shown that it is not up to the proper management of the country during the difficult times of the epidemic and that it is driven by the desire to change the social arrangements for the government's arrogant subordination of everything that can be subordinated. Such a government poses the greatest threat to democracy and the rule of law. With all the confusion, chaos and immeasurable arrogance in the face of the unbearable arrogance of power, the response of the vast part of the people of anger is expected. We would need a power that enjoys respect and trust, but we have a power that is evil, imposes unconstant measures and a government with decrees. Not just with the decrees, the government with the repression it's constantly stepping up and stepping up. On October 5, 2021, metal fences and police units in complete combat equipment awaited us in the centre of Ljubljana. In view of all the preparations, it was expected that the protests would take place peacefully and in a restricted area. Sadly, though, it was the police who caused a few hours of wildness in the city by their actions. And what is particularly worrying is that police officers apparently received instructions a few days before the protest that they must act with force and force immediately on this black Tuesday. In addition, we can also ask whether the police were preparing in advance for the record use of tear gas at Tuesday's protest on 5 October. This is indicated by the request for a loan of gas from the Slovenian Army prior to the protest. In September, the police also signed new framework agreements on the multi-annual procurement of tear gas. Police have reported that more than 400 tear gas rounds have been fired. If we include a water cannon that sprayed a mixture of water and tear gas, we get huge amounts of this gas in the city center of Ljubljana. The tear gas was also used by the police when it came to very small groups of protestors. The police themselves are not satisfied with the situation in which the police leadership, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia Janez Janša and Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs have been forced into non-professional conduct when they no longer know the maximum minimum use of force, but the maximum use of force, which should act in a frightening way, as a special form of general prevention, that people would no longer publicly express their constitutional right of expression on the street. A request for an independent investigation to determine whether the police leadership had accepted, and to give to police officers and police officers impartial, professionally justified and lawful instructions and orders to be carried out by the Ombudsman, the Police Union also called. In the light of the report of the participants and the supporters of the protest, the National Assembly, without a special commission, may reply to the trade union's questions. Leadership did not give professional orders, it provided political guidance by requiring the use of the greatest possible police force. In doing so, the police leadership acted differently from before, significantly more violent and also ineffective, as it was able to spread the protest across the city centre and gas the entire city centre. It succeeded in suspending human rights on 5 October and 6 October by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it was this decision that it handed out a blank menu for police action. We are also faced with increasing police politicisation and militarisation, as shown by increasing the powers of the police through legislative amendments, by staff replacements in leadership positions in the police with listening personnel, who are ready for everything, including the use of excessive force, and by visits by SDS officials at police stations. The Constitution makes it clear that members of the police cannot be members of political parties. This provision is important because it provides for the political neutrality of the police, which means that they must not be influenced by political parties. Visits to SDS party February under the auspices of the Minister of Interior at police stations constitute a direct violation of this constitutional principle referred to in Article 42, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. This type of work is understood as reckless police pressure and politicisation by the SDS party, which obviously owns the country and interprets it by its own measurement of the world. He sees it as something that is hers, entirely in her domain, and the party's interests are arrogantly tantamount to the interests of the state. Slovenia is very different today after a year and a half of Janša's government. Her democracy, the rule of law, fundamental human rights. All of this is seriously compromised. It's time for this destruction, this decomposition of everything we've been building for decades, to stop now. We don't want another republic that Janez Janša dreams of, the Republic of ours and yours, a country that will be owned by one party, one man alone, and we don't want a country in which the concept of modern police, who beat their own people, will be the concept of modern police. That is why we will unanimously support all five recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Let me just explain for the magnetogram, yes, that we're not going to make any more decisions today is just a debate, so [[…]] Mr Blaž Pavlin continues his position. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! In recent times, dear colleagues and colleagues have increasingly developed extremes, calls for the elimination of hostility, and even attacks on organisations and individuals. We drew attention to all these developments in Novi Slovenija, together with co-signors, at the beginning of the year with a joint meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Justice. We drew attention to hostile debates in this hall and to the fear that hatred can spread to our streets. And that's exactly what we've been witnessing in recent months. Targeting and attacking citizens of various political beliefs, incursion into RTV Slovenia, violent protests, threats to death by politics and also by fellow Members. All state authorities in all branches of government have the duty to respond to such phenomena in our society in accordance with their respective powers. It is our job to keep a close eye on society and on negative hostile phenomena that we react in a timely and effective manner. Some communities and nations combine difficult trials, and others are even more divided. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, this epidemic has made us even more separate, critical to each other and unreliable. Untrust is also a matter of experts, scientists, doctors, which has been almost incomprehensible for some time. Undoubtedly, this is also the responsibility of politicians, both governments and the opposition. In Novi Slovenija, as coalition partners, we are aware that the Government could certainly communicate more, what action could be more thoughtful. Above all, we should calm down the tone of public debate and blow up the toxic atmosphere in the Slovenian political space. Meanwhile, the opposition has been operating in principle, the worse it is for the government, the better it is for us. The current objective of the Cool Coalition is not to work for the common good, but only to take power. We all know that the half-life of the possible left government will be even shorter this time. The old offenses are by no means forgotten and we find it hard to believe that in the future they will be different, because in the Cool Coalition, more or less well-known actors operate. Persecution of entrepreneurs and those who earn daily bread will continue. By raising taxes and underemployment, this will mean an economic disaster, but this is not important, as the objective of the Kul coalition is simply and only taking over power. As the delegation of the European Parliament has noted, democracy in Slovenia is not threatened, nor is the public institution, but we are terribly divided and disputed and unprepared to cooperate. All politicians need to step back and calm down the overheated atmosphere. The fight against the epidemic, the economic recovery and the conclusion of the Presidency of the EU Council should be three national projects where the opposition and the coalition should not be, but a common agreement. In this way, we would show people that we can put public benefits ahead of our own political calculations, and we could soon reopen the country, and without hindrance, politics would start a pre-election competition in early or regular elections. In New Slovenia, we are always trying to maintain a respectful level of communication. We do not insult or attack political opponents, even if we do not agree with them. This government has many successes, record economic growth, historical low unemployment, all parts of Slovenia we are building the necessary infrastructure, roads, railways, homes for the elderly. We move projects about which some have only written programs and made pre-election promises. Unfortunately for all of this, these successes are heralded by bile debates and contentions on social networks that escalate in the unswerving dimensions of the media. It is not too late for all of us to continue working together for a better Slovenia. There are alternatives in each political field to moderate, dialogueal and forward-looking policies capable of connecting and caring for the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The opposition to today's meeting of the National Assembly of the Government, which is also calling for a resignation, is evident in the creation of emergency situations in the country through the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its ministers, excessive police violence against protests in Ljubljana and the politicization and militarisation of the police. While citizens and citizens face life problems and are counting on our help, you want to talk again today for nine hours about some extraordinary situation in the country. You've created an extraordinary situation... which, at the beginning of last year... when we were threatened by one of the worst epidemics of the last time... you gave up. You let citizens and citizens down and, in your own political calculus without a bad idea, you demanded an election. And now those of us who sat at the table at that time with those who had the courage to take a heavy bite and, as we see today, a long-lasting problem called the epidemic, accuse us of creating an emergency. Talking to people for 9 hours or more in the National Assembly is not going to do any good. These are legitimate opposition moves, but in these times they smell more of something else. It's all grown up, it's out of bounds of good taste, and it's all getting frivolous and immature. While you are saying that in these exceptional situations, the people on the street are because of us, you have encouraged them to do so yourself. They were on the streets before the current government formulated and before certain measures were taken to protect public health. And that we will not get things wrong, we are always at the SMC and we will support public opinion. This is something that is perfectly normal in democratic countries. And it is the politicians who have to listen to people, but here we are walking along a thin line between democratic expression of opinions and the destruction of democracy, when threats are putting practically all public officials at risk, and in the protests we have witnessed recently, the security of the people involved is also at risk. The responsibility for safe and peaceful protests must be taken over by both sides, i.e. the organizers and police officers who carry out their work there. It should be pointed out that the protest was undeclared on 5 October and is therefore all the more unpredictable and security risks. On the basis of the information gathered, the police made a security assessment and, in the definition of security measures, the known but not the official organizer of the meeting did not cooperate with the police at all. Such irresponsibility, which puts both officers and meeting participants in a dangerous situation, is strongly condemned in the SMC. In view of the circumstances, past experience and the information obtained in the absence of dialogue with the organiser, the police were forced to take certain decisions on the conduct of the protests. One of the decisions taken by the Government was, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the activation of police powers to prohibit movement in public places. Article 42, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the legal restrictions on the right to collection shall be permissible where public security requires, inter alia, that. However, we believe that public security is something that should be a priority for all of us. The Commission will also present its findings on the protests by the Director-General of the Police to verify the circumstances of the use of coercive funds in the provision of public order at an undeclared meeting. At the same time, we would like to stress at this point that we trust in the sober judgment of the police and believe that it is appropriate to take action at the said and all the other meetings. You're also always reading the government's investment in decrees. Since the first outbreak of the epidemic, the government has adopted a number of anti-Korona packages aimed at people, controlling the virus and preventing its consequences. We also adopted all these laws in the National Assembly. But with the help of some media, the opposition listened to our actions as catastrophic, but that is simply not true. If we look at numbers from different indicators, we are even better compared to other countries in some areas. Let us also note at this point the very legislative and legal incomprehensibility of other opposition recommendations such as the dismissal of Minister Aleš Hojs, the discharge of the Director General of the Police, Dr Anton Olaj, the resignation of the Government and so on, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. For example, the call for the discharge of the holder of individual public functions and their resignation is not a measure to which the recommendation may apply, but also does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly. The decision on the individual minister's motion for discharge is also decided by the Government on a proposal from the Minister, under the authority of the Prime Minister of the Police. In the meantime, the resignation of the Government is a unilateral act of the President of the Government, with the competence of the National Assembly merely to take note of the resignation at the meeting of the National Assembly. Legitimate institutions for the overthrow of the government and its ministers, after which the opposition has so far failed, are interpellation and a constructive non-trust. With all possible attempts by the opposition after the collapse of this government, we can no longer go beyond the fact that it is a politically motivated action with a desire to create a political crisis and regret that they left power to someone else before a good year. All this is happening at the expense of citizens and citizens. The situation that occurred a year and a half ago we did not imagine or help to create them, so we did not want to take account of them humbly and wait for mercy until then for the political partners. If you regret letting someone else rule you, that's your problem. Others have more serious problems regarding assistance to citizens and citizens. If, in times of uncertain circumstances, you are the only right way to overthrow this government, we are convinced in the SMC of a different agreement and this is cooperation. Ideological strife won't put bread on the table. We have entered the current coalition with the knowledge that we are still different, so we immediately committed ourselves to being the party that will be the pro-democracy party in the coalition. But being a defender of democracy does not mean that at the first obstacle you step out and argue with everyone around you, but it does mean that you remain a solid and unshakable article when we talk about values and attitudes that are not in line with our beliefs. It's over. There's no need for early elections. We understand that the opposition is difficult and that some are experiencing an abstinence crisis because they are no longer in power. But we don't understand your hiccups and total destruction, which goes beyond all limits. The government is operating under very difficult conditions. In such times, we would, of course, want a broad social and political consensus and cooperation, but we have accepted the opposition's decision to act destructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u14	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. The last year and a half each day seems more like democracy and the rule of law are just dead letters on paper. The modus operandi of the current government is increasingly worrying. The administration of decrees, police repression, the establishment of two categories of citizens, the beating and limitation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the adoption of controversial laws and the creation of emergency situations have unfortunately become a constant of our daily lives. The government takes advantage of the fight against the epidemic of covid for the arbitrary adoption of government decisions, a large part of which does not have legal basis in the law. The hierarchy of legal acts and the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are being raised. Finally, it does not respect its own laws, as we have seen in the case of the Slovenian Press Agency. Today is the 299th day since the Slovenian Press Agency has not received payment for the public service. As a result, confidence in the government is falling, not only showing more frequent protests but also the results of public research. The disappointment of people over the state of the country has clearly moved to the street. Unfortunately, it has escalated too often into violence and misdemeanors. We have repeatedly stressed in the SAB that we strongly condemn any violence on both sides and on the other hand, but we support peaceful protests. After all, it is a constitutional right. We understand people who aren't in the streets because everything would be okay, but because they feel like second-rate citizens. I'm not gonna figure out why the violence happened here, and who did it, that's the police's job. At the same time, I would simply point out that it is extremely unusual that all Friday's protests in the last year and a half took place in a calm manner and without problems. But the fact is, he's at a protest on Tuesday, 5. 10, there has been a very intense use of force by the police. In view of the situation in the SAB, we believe that the use of force was disproportionate. The entire centre of Ljubljana was incinerated, which was felt not only by the protestors but also by the inhabitants and passersby there. The internal minister's calls for greater police repression were more than obvious to fall to fertile ground. The authoritarian moves of Minister Aleš Hojs have been pointed out in the SAB since his presentation as a candidate for minister. His ministry has confirmed this, so we do not think he is fit for this function. In the SAB, we tried to be cooperative when the mandate came to this government, because we were aware that it was in a difficult position. But we soon realized that things had gone too far. The non-domestic, unnecessary and non-life-free measures to prevent the spread of the virus have lined up one by one. This has been demonstrated once again by mandatory compliance with PCT conditions. Measures that are impossible to implement in practice have the opposite effect of what is desired, since at the edge of the push are socially vulnerable and low-income people. Incomprehensible measures to prevent the spread of the virus, the destruction of independent media, the management of decisions, the condition of PCT for the visit of a personal physician, the fuel supply, the use of public transport, inadequate communication by government representatives, the submission of police to politics, the creation of emergency situations. All of this is a mode of operation of the current authorities, by which Slovenia loses its reputation in the European Union and in the world, and by which we are rapidly moving away from the fundamental principles on which our Constitution is based. People feel second-rated because they have been punished on the one hand for having had their lunch outdoors and, on the other hand, the highest authorities are in violation of the decrees and laws they have made themselves. That the government permits too much proof of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. An alarming number of rulings were annulled by the Constitutional Court because they did not have an adequate basis in law. The President of the Constitutional Court expressly reminded the Government that the time when they could have made excuses for the urgency and the need for rapid action was over. Today, the government no longer has this excuse, so it is unacceptable for it to adopt illegal acts without an adequate legal basis. In the SAB, we don't want a country like the government with Janez Janša in charge. Slovenia bloodyly needs early elections if we are to normalise the situation in the country and prevent democracy from being completely buried. In the SAB, we will unanimously support the proposal for recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u15	Thank you very much. [[adverts from benches]] Once again, I explain that today there is no vote but only a debate on the positions that were not supported on the Committee. Dear fellow Members of the SDS, a lapsus can happen to anyone. Let's be correct. We're moving on with our positions. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Who or what is the source of control or interference that can determine for someone who does or prefers it to that? According to the motioners of today's session, it is a citizen who comes to an illegal protest with a bottle and a granite cube, and then one of these two protest props or both of them turn to the police. The police have to warn him politely in this regard that this is not how it's done. However, if a citizen happens by accident to continue to do so, the police must deal with the attacker with due diligence in order not to harm his constitutionally guaranteed holy right to protest. There are situations that rational ethics simply cannot answer. The reality is too large, too rich, for the human mind to grasp and entangle it, and then sort it into its drawers. The characteristic of human nature is that it is difficult to bear the anxiety of relativism, so it tries to resolve it by interfering with categorical attitudes and ultimatums. When people realize that absolute truths do not exist, they either withdraw or hide in the shelters of exclusiveness. The requirement that politics must be infallible or have inhuman or superhuman complete biography is a reflection of the experience of power as supernatural authority. The area in this perspective consists of a group of selected saints and saints, who do not serve the State and citizens, but of historical and moral delusions. Only a naive people who see virtue in asceticism are more dangerous than an impeccable ascetic ascetic. Persisting on the moral integrity of politicians is implicitly challenging their privileges and intrudence in the most extreme order to tyranny. But the authorities did something like any other. State is a job like any other job. If they were the bearers of the power of a sinless person, more specifically, if human beings were completely flawless, then democracy would not be necessary at all. But as generous as we are to human weaknesses, we must not forget one principle. Any fact in the lives of high public officials must be addressed by the strictest criteria due to the power they are entrusted with and have. Unlike other citizens, they are obliged to suffer constantly, as well as excessive criticism. For in democracy, power and authority do not earn trust, but on the contrary. Status of suspicious and dangerous activity. So things aren't easy. They never were and never will be. And there's no need to be simple. Democracy is built from gray zones, contradictions, imperfections, and by these qualities it is completely similar to the human race. But democracy is effective and ethically superior precisely because it tries to reconcile the imperfections of human nature and the tendency of civilization to pursue its moral imperatives. Repeat, he's trying. And it takes time to try. Democracy is forever unfinished. Only tyranny has the answers to all the questions. As a rule, these answers are uniform, short and cutting. The position that only ordinary people carrying out human duties and the position that special criteria are applied against high public officials because they deal with the fates of citizens at risk are mutually exclusive. So what is the area within which an entity, a person or a group of persons is or should be left to do or is capable of doing or being, without involving other persons? Only after the existence between the extremes just mentioned and the awareness that none of them should consider the other does it create a democratic culture. Then, among other things, democratic culture differs from religion. This does not mean, in any case, that high ethical and democratic principles should cover up inadvertentity and fully subdued purposes. So we're talking about the relationship between an individual's ethical structure and a real social event. Dispersion of focused ideological and political dialogue in society could bring at least two lessons. First, that hatred and intolerance have only one way out, non-existence and non-existence, and both have a right under which everything is permitted. And secondly, it becomes a matter of good taste to lick in the modern context. At the same time, it is dangerous and grotesque. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u18	The creation of emergency situations did not begin with the last excessive use of police violence in October's protests. In order not to keep blinding ourselves about the causes and consequences or whether there was an egg or a chicken before, let me quickly recall the very most important mistakes, impropriety and illegal acts of this government. You've gone military to manage the epidemic. With orders and ignorance of the profession. State money, i.e. citizens' and citizens' money, has cost you for inappropriate covid tests and masks and purchase medical equipment, such as respirators, who have been deemed inappropriate by the profession. Of course, they got businesses close to government clients. When the time was right and people were ready to be vaccinated, you speculated with vaccines, gave up the EU's larger joint order with Pfizer, and waited for the cheapest one, which also raised the most concerns among people. The Prime Minister has recently again threatened that Slovenia will be forced to reintroduce measures that will not be taken by PCT measures, but measures that will once again close public life and the economy, cause additional damage, prevent recovery after the epidemic and cause new deaths, due to irresponsible behaviour which he believes will not be caused by the government or by the police. This was even reinforced by false information about the number of vaccinateds last Saturday. According to him, no one was supposed to be vaccinated, but today's data show that there were a lot more than 100 citizens and citizens vaccinated. For all we are blamed by the opposition, the Constitutional and Supreme Court, the Information Commissioner, of course the STA and the commercial and public RTV. At the same time, the economic minister all over the world claims that they will do everything they can to ensure that the countries do not close down or that the government does not have a closure plan, but has a plan to intercept the population. To whom to trust, I wonder. If I continue to avoid a debate in the National Assembly, where the opposition is fortunately able to speak, you have ruled by decrees, by passing laws and by the Constitution, which has been repeatedly recognized by the Constitutional Court, which, in your opinion, is, by the way, the Supreme Court, the on-call guilty of the state of the country. During his complete closed public life, your minister met in pubs, which should be closed, where he said he drank water and ate a sandwich in the company of local February and supporters. In a court investigation of tax evasion, another minister made an arbitral decision, contrary to the section’s recommendations, that the PCT should be valid as early as the day after the vaccination. In the meantime, the police apparently punished children who, taking into account security measures, demanded a constitutional right to education according to the tasks of government politicians. Not to mention any other repressive measures. And at that time, you've been carrying out an ideological war with independent media, with justice, with all the state institutions that have to act independently under the Constitution and the law. You have invaded the country with all the advanced European countries and have led it towards a modern iron undertaking of autocratic regimes, best symbolized by Hungary and Poland. In a year and a half, you did everything you could to completely decompose democratic institutions in the country and everything to buy state-owned businesses. And after all government infringements of the laws, after all government violations of the Constitution and irregularities, the Prime Minister of this government dares people to manifest irresponsible conduct. Then you are surprised that people do not trust you and that the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia want you to leave power as soon as possible? I know you've been given a new excuse these days, or you've made a new excuse to be able to play the role of the victim that you so well master, and your soldiers will certainly attack those words of mine. It would take too long to list many of your other stupidities and indiscretions this year and a half, so that what I have said should only serve as an illustration of your way of working. So that I can get back to what's been going on for the last two months. In 2010 there were protests in Ljubljana and Maribor, which were significantly more aggressive and violent. The Slovenian police then decided on an approach that had not yet further encouraged violence and tried to calm the protesters in a significantly less aggressive way, even though there were pearls among them if I used the words of the current minister, those pearls that we have probably seen in yellow jackets in recent years. However, the Internal Minister regularly visits the operational headquarters of the police with party workers, which we understand only as a direct involvement of policy in the work of the police. As I have already pointed out, there is no interior minister, there is no, and there must be no police minister. The police aren't the party organ of this government. The police are also not an organ of this government, so the internal minister with his political-appointed co-workers from the Ministry or the cabinet of the President of the Government and Members, of course, yours have nothing to do with the operational headquarters of the police. This same minister says he congratulated the police on the excessive use of violence. This is nothing more than adding to the start of the spiral of violence that we have not experienced in the history of independent Slovenia. More than that, we have not experienced this kind of violence, nor have we experienced protests at the arrest of a four-year-old in the former country, but you say that the regime was totalitarian. Remember, Mr President of the Government, citizens and citizens of Slovenia then defended you, today you are bombing these same citizens and citizens with a tear gas and a water cannon. Whether you are going to all that the current government is doing and how it communicates with citizens and citizens, just to cynicism of its protected politicians from some other times or to implement the programme of the largest government party, which only mentions the possibility of civil war, that is an unanswered question. However, it is very true that all its leading representatives use insults for three quarters of citizens and citizens who do not support governments and militarise their supporters and believers. From this we could easily conclude by simple mathematics that this government does not care for exactly a million and a half citizens and citizens. All you want to know is to divide the people as much as possible in the hope that more of yours will come to the next election than they do if I use your language. Even though the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the home working body did not receive sufficient support to be decided at today's meeting of the National Assembly, the debate itself will be more important than the final vote. This will further highlight all that the unrelated Members have pointed out in today's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen! When reading it explained why it is necessary to devote our time to this meeting, I cannot pass the feeling that I obviously live in another Slovenia as a proposaler. I hear that we have a terror that the government and its most-sung Minister Hojs is causing chaos in the country, that he has a police force under his control, which then uses excessive force over citizens. Although you have abandoned the part that John Janša has such power that the whole world is convinced that one flu that is solved by sneezing into his hands is actually dangerous. In view of the above, I would like to know where we have a naked island in Slovenia and how the media has denied us specialty actions in the homes of those who have dared to speak out loud what they think. All we can say in the last year and a half is that it is the proponents that keep trying to break the balance in the country and create an artificial state of emergency. If memory doesn't deceive me, there's at least three interpolations ahead of us, and there's two more on the lager. If I recall the tower's predictions, they've already written an interpretation for every minister and they're just waiting for the right time. I don't think it's state-of-the-art, not state-of-the-art. Apparently, I am the only one who remembers how some of the candidates called for protests, even took part on Fridays. I didn't see anyone condemning death with a water gun to a cop. I don't remember anyone condemning the performances of Jaš Jenul and Zlatko Čordić. This is about the right to freedom of speech. I assume that the destruction of the Ministry's facades, the throwing of the hammer into our party's building, the drawing of the motor saw on the door, the hidden threats to the ministry of culture and the freedom of expression, as well as the calls of the Social Democrats to keep the children in school free of masks, and the screaming of this temple of democracy that the mask will not be worn. If a man plays with fire, they're on fire. in July this year, protestors attacked MPs in front of the National Assembly and they didn't care who they were. [[Incomprehensible]] At the time, we were united for a moment, because things went too far. Apparently, the smell of the sea was the one who exceeded his resentment and connected us to the welfare of the nation. With the new school year, everything was forgotten again. Friday's protest is about extinction. The main uncles in the background are the solution to prove their, well, our new "frontman", which is not foreign to violence. On Sunday, however, RTV in the Miša was clearly presented as to how these intellectuals think. The fact that they are deprived of their right cannot be determined how and by which they are allowed everything, including violence against Members, the destruction of the National Assembly, violence against police officers and journalists and threats across all possible channels. You're reading to the government that an excuse to fight Covid is creating a state of emergency. That's exactly what you're doing alone. With the excuse that the government is taking its own steps, you intimidate people and sell them lies. In Slovenia we had nice measures, but you know that. I strongly doubt that you did not go to Austria at least once during this time, where you have to register and show PCT the condition. A number of European countries are closing again, children are being educated remotely, they are working from home, and they are also protesting there, yes. A brief overview of these protests paints us a completely different picture than you want to pass on to people. In Germany, tear gas and rubber, as well as a water cannon, were used in protests. They also used tear gas in Austria, similar to in Italy and the Netherlands. It's the only problem with us. If the police were really as violent as you think they are, they wouldn't end up with seven more wounded cops and one wounded protestor. And I believe that your fairy tale of rule broke out at a time when Mr. Sarec was wearing a white flag. I'm not going to say that he threw a rifle into the corn, which is an exhausted phrase. Of course, we know he didn't hang her because of the Slovenian National Party, but we know who did. I also remember that a few days after his resignation, he changed his mind, but it was no longer possible to obtain the withdrawal envelope back because she had gone too far in the National Assembly. I know you didn't count on Janša to form the government, but if you cared so much about people like you, you wouldn't care about who's in charge, and apparently not only do protestors have a problem understanding the concept of government and the National Assembly. If it were true for you people, we would not read and support laws on the basis of who the proposer is, but on the basis of content. You haven't done that in a good time, I'm sorry. Now that it's clear that the elections are in front of you, at the door, even less. You sell easier stories and deceive people. You're the one who's causing chaos with the help of the mainstream media. But I believe it's hard to admit. What did Kramberger say 30 years ago? And when they do not rule, they will protest and call for the death of those who rule, but they are not of their kind. What was his fate, we know, according to the latest postal shipments to our sending group, but we can assume that a similar fate will await us if we do not play with you. As I have said recently, you have all the legitimacy to seek a path to elections, but again I quote, also forgive the expression, not “blossom”. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u22	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! I hope that everyone in the National Assembly understands the difference between constitutional concepts. Street violence is a method of left-wing fascism in Slovenia, spitting in people's faces, throwing objects into people, doing harm, destroying things, obstructing others is not freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is that everyone says what he thinks can be controversial; it can be provocative, but in a way that does not interfere and does not compromise human rights. If we once understand this constitutional norm, then I wonder how it is possible that before us today this paper is written down with legal nonsense and political Flossules, which you have called a proposal to calm the situation or something like that, but after a long effort, when I have read a few times I have found a sentence with which I agree and where I will build a starting point for today's address. I'll read that sentence. The process of creating emergency situations in Slovenia is long and systematic. Ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree here, but it is longer than you wanted to say. Because here, ladies and gentlemen, I always like to help myself with pictures one image says more than a thousand words and very nicely refreshes your memory, because otherwise, then you say that someone is lying here are in fact the root of the sowing of hatred in Slovenia. This, ladies and gentlemen, is RTV Slovenia's official meeting of the Council of RTV Slovenia of the Slovenian Culture House, which by law is supposed to be independent and specifically based on respect for standards even if you want ethical standards of journalists and everything that Slovenian legislation provides. What do we see here? The death of Yanshi, the death of Yanshim, death, death, death. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this have to do with the house of Slovenian culture? Nothing, but it has very much to do with the constitutional norm, by which every promotion of violence is unacceptable, and if it is based on politics or on any other personal circumstances, it is clearly an unconstitutional act. And so do the intimidation of people, the sowing of hatred took place in this Slovenia before this government took place. Look at the case! Remember your comrades. You hung this up and sowed it around the day the new government was decided. Who did you measure with the Nazis and the fascists? People who certainly have much in common with Nazism and fascism as those who propose today's session. If anyone doubts about this, the one who sees the bike today is definitely Levica because she had the opening address and remember how the whole Levica applauded here in Parliament when I read them Adolf Hitler's first address because they were so sure it was theirs because it was the same rumor. That Member of the Left who was running to sign a fascist manifesto because she was convinced it was theirs because it was the same. When you sow hatred, you cultivate it. You raised him under a sign that was particularly sad in the light of yesterday. Yesterday we celebrated the day when Slovenia was actually freed, when the last ship sailed under the red flag down to the south, loaded with the army of JLA and their military equipment, but as in every terror, then said something survived and unfortunately something must be done by all Slovenia and therefore not full of lungs. [[Incomprehensible]] Then you systematically and purposefully, as you yourself wrote only in the wrong context, promoted hatred, protests, violations of laws systematically and planned. And when things burned down, then you started, like you do today, remember? That's from your first non-violent bike protest. Not to say what you've been throwing at the people that you've been involved in. And then let's say the same sentence is if someone thinks that it didn't happen again, as I used to use it as a root: the death of Janshism. Death, death, death — that, ladies and gentlemen, is the sowing of hatred, which then produced fruit. Take a look at how that went. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an antifa, modern left-wing terrorists. Many countries already have them officially on the terrorist list. They also came from abroad to Slovenia several times for an invitation, as they themselves wrote on one of their portals, comrades from Slovenia. We should be dealing with this, yes, in fact, this country, its secret services and the police. If you can see something, it may not be enough, but it is about allowing this to happen, so that what is obviously unconstitutional, hatred’s inexorable, intolerance’s inexorable, the call for violence is declared to be the right and appropriate method of work. And if anyone denies it, I would remind you of this, ladies and gentlemen. Not only did you call others to violence, but you blocked even a completely legal meeting, a perfectly legal meeting that was a meeting for life, and you stood by the stones in your hands. Will anyone else say that this is something other than a call for violence? This, ladies and gentlemen, is an obvious call for violence. No one can deny it. And who was behind it? Gentlemen of the Left, those who are obviously the ringleaders of the entire process today, and their comrades from the SD, and still to the top. Then we listened again and again to one protestor and the other to something else and it had nothing to do with it. Oh, run, come on. And then the SDS made one meeting of their members in Marezija and suddenly, look, they all just kind of invited themselves together to protest against the SDS in. [[Incomprehensible]] And the masks fell. And the masks fell. And there's one more thing. You've even institutionalized this sowing of hatred yourself. What's the KUL Coalition? The KUL Coalition is the only true coalition of hatred in Slovenia. The roots of this coalition were well said by one of her fathers, sitting in the Chamber now, when he said, the first and fundamental criterion will be to oppose the government of Janez Janša, to oppose the SDS and not to cooperate with the SDS or anyone who supports this government. That, ladies and gentlemen, is hatred. Nothing based on hatred and exclusion has good consequences, it cannot. And Slovenia doesn't deserve that. But the saddest part is that, as we have seen at this session today, even in the opening presentation, the one who today runs a bicycle on the entire left pole of political space is the left-wing party, from which many of you, in the past, have been making a fool of themselves, that they have completely unrealistic and aboriginal ideas that I will not yet use all the other expressions that we have heard about them. You're with them today and follow them. How sad that is. In fact, how humiliating that is. Think about yourself a little bit. For the customers that you were once leading, SD, LMŠ, SAB, its predecessors, today you're captivating for Levica. Sad, but it says a lot about the state of Slovenia. And the situation in Slovenia is the subject of today's speech. Unfortunately, we have seen this hatred before this National Assembly. Ten wounded police officers, more wounded participants who weren't the ones who were among the non-combatants of the riot. There, one with a pair of bracelets or bullers, if I'm properly informed, literally jumped into the back of one of the cameramen. He was badly injured. There was a lot of material damage, a crack and a spike, a wreck, and more cars in Ljubljana, destroyed exhibitions and everything else. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the fruits of your inexorable intolerance, your systematic and planned inciting emergency situations. Just like you wrote it correctly. And here today, as Roman Emperor Nero, then you wrap your hands over the burning Rome and say, "Oh, horror, Rome burns." Who's on fire, ladies and gentlemen? It's you. And you set fire to this year and a half systematically planned long before this government was created. But this hatred that you sowed, from these roots, you built it up and built it up until you got away with it to a great extent. And how was that so sad? When those you incited and scolded before the National Assembly spat on you and threw things at you. They pushed you away. However, you have been so much so that when we suggested that all people in Slovenia should be protected from street violence, that they should raise their sentences a little bit, but above all, it is essential that we allow a police officer who is there to react promptly without having to wait for the application and the expression that someone feels threatened and so on, as the current legislation provides, if anyone does not know, you have prevented this, you have broken this law. And you even celebrated it. Please, what kind of people you are to celebrate the fact that you broke a law that would prevent someone from continuing to spit unpunished in the face. And it was for all people in Slovenia, including foreigners whom you like to defend so much. It was that anyone on the ground of the Republic of Slovenia would be protected from street violence. So you broke it. In the spirit of creating extraordinary conditions, over which you are now washing your hands and your hands as sacred. We've come this far. In fact, Slovenia is much better at this point than in most European countries, when we talk about things, about the economic situation, about economic indicators. Regrettably, what emerged as discomfort and hatred then reflected that we do not have a sufficiently high degree of intersection or respect for the measures. Anyone who thinks he's allowed anything, even if he's threatening his fellow human being, and that's why the consequences are bad. That everyone thinks they can afford everything in this country was a great case, Mr Jenull, who you have defended many times, who recently declared something like that to close down the street, his civil rights, his human rights. Please, let's see what the law says with all the nebulosis you've written on paper. The law explicitly and unequivocally states that those who protest peacefully have this right. But he's expressing his opinion. But when the police broke down and took the yellow vests that were just standing still, they didn't threaten anyone, it seemed great to you. Interesting. But once it falls on the antifayals, when the means are used to force those who hinder all others who do harm, it seems terrible to you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, who do you think has the right in this Slovenia to destroy the property of others, to prevent people from coming to work or from working, to prevent older people from being able to get in touch with a doctor, to prevent mothers from being able to reach their children, or to search for them purely elsewhere, because there has been so-called protests, the right expression would be organised riots, not in the past weeks, about which there is written evidence. You don't think that's worth mentioning. What about these people's rights? What about the rights of mothers to their children, to their safety? What about the rights of the elderly to live safely, so that no one threatens them, that they can go to a doctor if they feel bad? What are the rights of employees to go to work or from work? That the state is functioning normally? No, you don't care. You're only interested in power at all costs. To create extraordinary conditions that you have been planning and systematically creating for a year and a half. Nevertheless, I assure you, this country works well and will work. And of course your wet dreams won't come true. The only thing I hope and wish for is more determination and willingness to find a way to show people the real picture. Today, a lot of people, including you, and those who are not here today, are spreading information across Europe about how journalists and press freedom should be threatened here. What press freedom? Spreading death, as we have seen in the U.S. opening image? And people have a real picture of everything that's going on. Well, I'll only tell you one specific case that touches me. When you think or claim that people are objectively informed with us, this weekend was a historic opportunity for Slovenia. At the conference on the future of Europe, which includes both the European Parliament, all national parliaments, including ours, and of course the European Commission, as well as civil society organisations and the general public, I had the opportunity to speak as the first of the Slovenian Parliament. You can't see these pictures, ladies and gentlemen, just like the ones you saw before. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation in Slovenian media. You could read a bunch of nebulosis, and months ago even years ago, but you couldn't hear someone as the first one in the Slovenian Parliament talking in the European Parliament at a conference on the future of Europe. That I have warned that Europe was created as an association of independent states, equal states, that every insurrection and every ideology and every vote is breaking Europe and that the future of Europe is our children. And that is why I want it to be fundamental to lead the one that binds everything and everyone, because we have ratified it and it is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the United Nations on the Rights of the Child, that there must always be a child at the forefront of any political decision. Good for the baby. Because children are our future. Ladies and gentlemen, as this is our future, we have, of course, rejected the proposed conclusions in the SDS, as it would mean that Slovenia, as a country, is giving up a one-time historic opportunity to continue leading the entire European Union as it is. In order to give up the opportunity to do everything possible for the development of Slovenia, to leave Slovenia to those who are now under this KUL Treaty, we have begun to follow the party that has been published on its website, that it will empower all entrepreneurs and then push them into the sea with bayonets, and some similar claims about how our constitutional order will break. Tell me who you're hanging out with and I'll tell you who you are. This, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed the creation of a state of emergency in Slovenia, but it is not the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition, ladies and gentlemen, not only works well, works well, works well for the future, works for the development of Slovenia. We work for our children. And that's how it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Jerca Korče, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u24	Thank you and a nice hello! Yes, where to begin today is the first question to be asked at today’s meeting. Or start by listing all the affairs you produce daily by the ruling. It would be difficult to choose which is more valuable and what is the weight of each of them. They're the ones about suspected corruption, maybe the ones where you command people to wear masks and punish them if they don't. In the meantime, of course, you are ruling over your rule and you are violating it without sanctions. Are those the ones when you close the inn for everyone, of course, but you go on your own nonchalantly for a snowball sandwich? Are these the ones about Twitter accounting both at home and across our borders? Really, in a bunch of affairs, it's hard to remember everyone. Stupid taxes, Trump won, people were shaking, living nets, we're playing golf. We have come so far that some affairs seem even bizarre to us. We're getting to the point where, in fact, with a big affair that should have major consequences, we just wave our hand and say, ah, one more, and move on. On one occasion, a serious violation is just another of the news of the morning’s reading of the newspaper and just another routine matter that fills the time between one and the other. Last time someone wrote down how funny it is to remember why people in the government had to give up Marjan Sarca for a sandwich because of one phone call. In the LMŠ, we still believe that standards in politics should be set very high. The recognition and acceptance of responsibility have never been treated as weakness, but rather as an honorable act and a contribution to the implementation of high standards that should be the norm in modern politics. But in a year and a half, there was a total breakdown of the concept of taking responsibility. And that's dangerous for the future. When all the standards fall, when the standards of acceptable rise to the sky and when practically no action, a statement, there is no longer any reason to assume political responsibility on the part of the holders of public functions, we come to a very dangerous situation in which everything is easily allowed, only if you are on the side of the ruling. Do the supporters of this government ever ask what the consequences of your ignorance for the future will be? Do you really, as representatives of the people, never question and somehow bend to your own survival, without the ability to see a wider picture and look at things? Policy is desirable, even essential, that we have different opinions and face them. Of course, we have a different view of how the income scale should be designed, for example, is the construction of a nuclear power plant the right way for the future, investing in weapons or science, housing for the market or renting apartments for young people, public or private health and education, all of which are legitimate fields to confront opinions and seek consensus. But there is one fact that should not be a single doubt, and that is our shared responsibility to respect legal rules. The latter allows us to live in normal harmony regardless of our different values. A state based on the rule of law can operate if both the authorities and the people respect and trust the rule of law. What remains for the State when the authorities decide that nothing is legally binding for them? At the head of the Justice Department, you've appointed a man who's on trial for suspicion of tax evasion and document fraud. When a person says it out loud, he doesn't know if it's even possible. You've led the boundaries of the acceptable to such absurdity that it would be difficult to afford a greater bottom than the bottom. Are you even aware that the rule of law is already almost clinically dead? The government has adopted and ruled by decrees over the legal basis. This has brought the division of power to a legislative and executive level. Are you aware that the National Assembly has adopted the STA Financing Act, which the government simply ignores and does not enforce? Are you aware that the government does not respect the judgments of the courts when, for example, it does not appoint delegated prosecutors? And dear colleagues and colleagues, supporters of this government, you are aware that you have allowed castration of the temple of democracy and the government to allow the laws behind it to be a self-service trade in which it can somehow choose, take into account and what it does not. And this one is very dangerous. How, then, to demand respect for laws and government decisions, how to expect people to trust in the rule of law when they see that it is simply not first class. In all these years, we have listened to stories about a deep country and these stories about uncles. With his third government, it became clear who was a deep country and who sold out not even around and created uncles and aunts. When he publicly attacked them, he did business in the background and associated with them. While his soldiers were fighting corruption in health care, he freely targeted golf holes on the other side of the world. While he was creating smoke curtains of quasi fighting the tycoons, others were conducting arrangements on how to take over. And today this mode of government operations under the leadership of the SDS, which allows New Slovenia and SMC, is still present. In fact, they don't even hide it anymore. Matthew Tonin and Zdravko are the same, if not more, responsible for the state of the country as Janez Janša himself. Politicians should be aware of how important the community is, and this is the one built on solidarity. More than that, people really shouldn't be underestimated. And it was just an epidemic that was a typical situation when the importance of the community was even more reflected. The government has chosen the path of decommissioning, polarisation, sub-communication based on threats, underestimating attitudes towards people, when there is simply no need to explain them, even less to argue - you simply command and order people. She has chosen a path where disobedience will be punished, and a path where anyone who dares to question an individual measure will simply attack and discredit. A path in which independent institutions will not play the role of someone who will be heard with their warnings, but will only be attacked by the highest officials. Proposals and concerns will not be regarded as a possible contribution to the improvement of the situation, but rather as rejected and trampled. Misunderstanding that people are the key to a solution, and that respectful and correct communication is a prerequisite for success, is simply a cancer of failure with the epidemic. The rise of conspiracy theorists is only a symptom in this case. And yes, how can we wave conspiracy theorists when we have someone at the very top of the country who practically even built his political career on conspiracy theories against himself? The weakening of the minimum self-reflection of this government's operation is shown practically at all levels. With individual reactions, politicians should self-examine the reasons for the situation. Instead, we are witnessing the search for culprits everywhere outside the ruling circle. Why do people protest? Do you really believe this is part of a broader conspiracy? You really think it's even dolls someone sends to the streets? Are you really not thinking about the reasons why people are there? Do you really believe that people go to the streets even because they're supposed to be bored? Have you thought, maybe you thought that protests are a reflection of some kind of tribulation, screaming among people who have enough to be treated as non-digestion? Instead of setting up a mirror, making self-reflection, it goes to its own people with force. In LMŠ we know how important it is that people trust the police. We also know that it was difficult for a cop of a number of people to be told that he had to take orders over people with force. Moreover, in the LMŠ we are aware that, after the mandate of this government, everything will be necessary to restore the reputation of the police and to ensure that law enforcement authorities are provided with the conditions for investigating all actions of this government. And yes, politics is here because of people. And to identify problems, to ask the right questions, to find answers, and to form solutions to social challenges. And the real issues of all of us together should be how to provide decent housing to young people at a normal price, how to provide older people with a decent age, how to deal with climate change, how to improve the health system, how to deal with the rise in mental distress, what to do to create a higher added value that we can finance public services. The list is long and endless. But it is sad, truly sad, that we have come into a situation where we have to deal with the policy of the new generation instead of addressing these problems by defending the foundations of this country. When we have to deal with how we will restore confidence in the functioning of the country, how we will give effect again to independent institutions when we have to fight to adopt laws, adopt laws, enforce laws, respect laws. Colleagues and colleagues! It is sad that Janez Janša, Matthew Tonin and Zdravko have brought us into a situation where we have to fight for normality, so that we can think again about the progress of our society and, after all, of course, the Government does not see the reasons for the resignation, Members of the supporters of this government, you do not see the reasons for the resignation. So how did you get out of this situation? We still believe in people in LMŠ. The only solution for changes to normalisation is the active citizenship of each of us, because the last thing we can afford in these times is to remain silent and surrender to fate. And one more thing, we don't agree to thesis in LMŠ, oh, you're all the same. We didn't. In the LMŠ, we have already proved that we understand power as a great responsibility, to the country, to all inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, and to a certain range for the realization of our own interests and the attack of others. We're not, and we still don't understand it as borderless property, within which you can do whatever you want. We don't understand people as a tool with which you manipulate in disgusting ways, while you take advantage and take advantage. Moreover, unlike, unfortunately, the sufficient number of opportunists sitting in this temple of democracy, we believe in the LMŠ that politicians should never think about where they will be in one year or after the mandate, but simply about how people will live and what our common country will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As a last resort, the position of the SD Group will be presented by mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we experience erosion or deliberate destruction of the rule of law. The government acts voluntarily, authoritarianly and unconstitutionally. This government does not respect judicial decisions, not laws. This Government shall adopt non-constitutional decisions and by its decisions, as well as legislative proposals, interfering with independence under the Constitution and the law of independent and independent bodies. In each legal country, all national authorities must act in accordance with the legal rules. All state authorities must also respect fundamental human rights and freedoms. But it looks like it's been 14 since the show. Governments, this needs to be stressed over and over again. So this is some of the most elementary thesis. As this government has managed to break the foundations of our democratic and legal state over the past two years and put us at the side of countries such as Poland or Hungary, which prohibit abortions in which power interferes with media freedom, into the independence of the judiciary. After 30 years, it seems that some independent path, democratic path, the current government is changing and building on the model of the authoritarian countries of the 20th century, which is of course absolutely unacceptable. One of the essential elements of the rule of law is also the principle of proportionality in interfering with the rights and freedoms of individuals and the principle of the division of power. Thus, in Slovenia, it is solely the legislator, the National Assembly, who is responsible for the regulation of fundamental human rights. This is a reflection of the already mentioned principle of power-sharing, democracy and the rule of law. And any limitation of human rights must always be weighed, checked by means of a rigorous proportionality test, i.e. whether an intervention is eligible for the achievement of the objective, whether an intervention is necessary and necessary, and whether it is proportionate. Any restriction of human rights requires a sufficiently clear framework and guidelines for possible more detailed sub-legislative regulation in the law. Such serious interventions into fundamental rights as freedom of movement, education, assembly and association must, for example, take into account the possibility of territorially restricted measures, their time limits, the duty to consult the profession, and adequate public information. And this government has been around for two years now, since the epidemic started, the government has ruled with decrees and with substantively empty laws. The government has adopted more than 2,000 700 decrees. It does not involve the National Assembly in any of its decisions. I myself insist that there has been a complete derogation from the legislative body. The Constitutional Court has found the unconstitutionality of a number of government decrees and also some laws, from education away from the Law on Infectious Diseases, peaceful protests and the like, and the worst of all, our citizens and citizens have taken away our citizens. If I mention only children with special needs, how much damage they have been caused by the closure of schools. They were deprived not only of learning, of physiotherapy, of speech and psychological treatment, of the possibility of social, emotional development, and no one will ever be able to repay them. It is obvious that this government really wants a state of emergency with the goal of fully subjugating all social systems, especially the obvious people. Therefore, there is nothing left for us in the opposition but to warn us, with all possible means, of irregularities and, therefore, to refer to meetings such as today’s. In Slovenia, people and people have power over and over every week in the streets, and it warns that the government no longer wants these governments because the government creates extraordinary conditions, chaos, confusion among people. The measures change from day to day, from today to tomorrow. Some are as pointless as the condition of PCT to work from home. It is expected that people are confused that people are angry and that the Government on the Committee rejects our recommendations by citing that the possible implementation of the recommendations we have proposed would not contribute to improving the situation in the country and that, with the existence of this Government, it would prevent violent protests. There are no legitimate arguments because it is obvious that the rulings end up making fun of their own citizens and citizens. And how would this government's resignation help to improve the situation in the country, because people want to change, so they're on the streets to get this government's resignation in order to achieve some normalization of this country? We rightly wonder how long it will take for the next Government to repair all the damage caused by the current authority in all social sub-systems. We fear that all the damage will not even be remedied, so it is so much more urgent that we go to early elections now while we still have time. We are still waiting for an official internal control report, but nevertheless the worrying findings of Knovs are that they are most likely in the 5 October protests to determine the use of coercive resources and command the police. The police are, and must be, autonomous and independent in their work; they must carry out their tasks professionally, not that the Minister commands the police; this is absolutely unacceptable in the rule of law. The police leadership is the one who should obey orders, not the politicians. On 5 October, the police launched 400 gas rounds and gas bombs, used a water cannon, and mixed water with tear gas. The tear gas, which was felt on their own skin by no one who could sense the passing, the mothers, the children who were sitting in nearby parks, and that's unacceptable, that's terrible. Once again, I stress that the right to peaceful assembly, to meetings, is key to democracy, is one of the fundamental political freedoms without which it is impossible to imagine a free and democratic society. The United Nations also says that the ban on peaceful assembly is that last extreme measure, with particularly high security political protests, the countries should no longer assume that the protests will be violent. At the time of the total ban on protests, however, many other, more risky activities were allowed in the interior, but not the protests. Under the cover of the fight against the epidemic, this government has done a series of harmful things that two years ago could never have imagined could happen. We are firmly convinced that it is time for the power to return to the people and trust our citizens and citizens to be activated in the next elections, because Slovenia is a legal and democratic state and its role is to ensure social peace and to adequately protect fundamental human rights. All of this has not been done on purpose since the beginning of the rule, and it is therefore time for us to go to early elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. In the course of the presentation of their views, the speakers took the floor. First, Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik, for her Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! I have too little time now to comment on all that has been heard today, yet I will comment on some things. It has been a long time since I've heard this word relationship that Secretary of State Kangler has been using since I've known it, but it's been a party for a long time. He speaks of one word relationship quickly, effectively and legally. That's how it's done. Yeah, it's true, this government is fast working, and I'm very much in favour of it when we're talking about human brutalism. By the way, 1257 people were changing in this personnel tsunami, and here we count not all those mentioned in the ministries and supervisory councils, but only the Government, where, of course, the only criterion is that it is ours. You work fast, I agree. Then it's effective. Yeah, that's true, too. That's what we see there in the deaths of over 5,000 people. It's true, you're working effectively, you're fighting an epidemic. Then the Secretary of State says they are working very legally too. Of course I'm being sarcastic. We see this in the STA of the two laws do not adhere to one and they even proposed the paradox themselves. Yeah, it's true, it's fast, it's effective, it's legal. You're destroying the foundations of this country. It's true. Now, what we have proposed is that it is necessary to propose to the Prime Minister of the Government to replace or resolve the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State says that this minister is, as it were, a superhero. He even gave the cops new equipment. Bravo, great, congratulations to the super minister irrevocably withdrawn for this act. And I might just remind him that this super minister to his police officers, for whom he fights so franticly he's called a brat and a sloth at one time magnifies the pearls, and those who celebrate Hitler as a hero. Bravo, he's a superhero. Then he says that in normal democracy, the opposition does not act in such a way as to call on the government to resign. Yeah, maybe, just in normal democracy, it's not cool to throw tear gas at your people and confiscate three quarters of Ljubljana. It's also not cool if you haven't paid for the public service she manages for 299 days. It's also not cool if you take people's freedom with your illegal decisions, which 18 people take at night on weekends, and you terrorize the other 2 million people, and that's not the coolest thing. Then the Secretary of State goes on to say that this government does not exclude anyone from just connecting. Well, I add in this that this Government excludes no one other than thinking, non-governmental, objective media and, of course, all those who do not agree with this Government in any way, and this integration is particularly reflected in the violation of the principle of democracy, the violation of the principle of the division of power, the violation of the rule of law. It's this so-called merger of this government. What exactly is the situation in the country today? If I say in football jargon, because it's people who are those football enthusiasts who understand it the most, if the team doesn't go well and then the fans say over 70% of them say that they need to take action on what happens in football? Yeah, well, every owner is just replacing the coach. And with us, the government wants to replace the fans, because the coach is the best anyway. I think about him and his decisions never doubt him or his dreams. Therefore, respectable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Grims says in the Government and in the Self-Reflex Coalition. It's such a very miraculous word. Self-reflection. And we have another one for you. Whatever you give, that's what you get. And now you've been doing exactly what you've been giving for decades. That's what you're getting now. It's time for self-reflection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Tashner Vatovec also wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u30	Yes, now, this opening saloon of those defending the work of this government has shown that, in fact, what I was trying to say in the opening presentation of the applicants is indeed true. Now, one of SMC's coalition parties says they're a defender of democracy in the coalition. This is a party that allows the STA to be exhausted, although they have proposed an amendment that the STA should be financed, passed the law in which this amendment was proposed, and now they are looking at it calmly. That's how you defend democracy. Then he attacks the judiciary and the non-election of European Delegated Prosecutors. This was done by the Ministry under the supervision of the SMC, an apparent ecclatanal breach, also found several times in the Administrative Court, proceedings, when those who applied were not appointed. That's how democracy is defended. Then, I don't know if I have to get caught up in this, but this flop in communication with the representatives of the European Parliament and the European institutions. I think, if they are somehow advocates of European integration and so on, after that act by the President of the European Parliament, I think we should find out what the only way this party can defend democracy is to get out of this coalition. Then it's about the pain before the ascetics that Comrade Polnar said. He was talking about people without mistakes. I agree, but of course not every man can be a saint, he cannot be without mistakes, but he calls the errors of things such as tax evasion, fraud, attacks on state institutions, on state authorities, on employees in state bodies, lobbying for payments at the Bank of Slovenia and so on. They're not human mistakes, they're nothing but corruption and crime. Now, some garlic on the cake. Mr. Grimes. In fact, Mr Grims should come from a maximum, should not come from the maximum of their companion, Ambassador Jelinčič, who says the people are stupid. Look, people aren't stupid. The people are not stupid, and they know exactly what's going on in this country. The government coalition is not aware of this, so it says that you live in an ivory tower where everything is beautiful and right and it is the best and most successful government of all time and people are happy. If that were the case, then we would not have protests on the streets, we would not have 70% of people who disagree with the work of this government, who do not support it and so on. So here I don't know which universe you can just draw such conclusions from the current situation. And I seriously ask you, have you ever wondered why most of the parties before the elections, before the 2018 elections, decided not to cooperate with one of the parties running for the elections? This is not some whim that has happened, or exclusion, hatred, as Mr Grims says. But it's due to some actions. And also people, when there was a turn in one of the current coalition parties, who changed their minds and gave up this commitment before the elections, reacted for one reason. Because they remember what the first SDS government was doing and what the second SDS government was doing. Because people aren't stupid and luckily they don't have as short a memory as they like to talk. But they remember certain things. And in fact, you should be asking yourself why these things are happening. Why, even before a government occurs, many people express disagreements or dissatisfaction with the formation of such a government. So that every time the SDS was in the government, of course, they brought their own. And the extraordinary situation, or this chaos in the country that now rules, you created it, you created it with your way of ruling, which is written in your DNA, this extraordinary situation is written in your DNA, and you create it by doing what you do. It is said that the destruction of public institutions, the demolition and attack of the judiciary, the appointment of no delegated prosecutors, the purchase of weapons excessively and so on. Or you're giving 6% of the richest in this country. While you have already been so indebted, no one knows how these debts will be repaid and worsened by the state of the social state, public services and everything in this country. These are the reasons why you have people on the streets. Not some terrible deep state, but an ugly opposition, but a rude media that throws prey at your feet. You are the source and this is, in fact, also written in some way in the Government's opinion on our recommendations, where the government performs some double blindness. Twice he denies something that is actually a claim. You say that the government is guaranteeing that there will be no worse security conditions and more protests and that the government is a guarantor that there will be no worse situation with the epidemic. On the contrary. The government is guaranteeing that this is happening. And the only way out of this government is to ensure that the situation is improved by both the epidemic and the protests in the streets. I think that this is a simple thing and most people in this country are aware of it, except those who are heating these chairs at the expense of these functions that you occupy both in the government and those Members of this National Assembly that keep you alive.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Franc Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The performance of Lidija Divac Mirnik is a living example of impatience in this hall. Honourable Member and also KUL Coalition Member, if you think democracy is building with granite cubes, you're fucking wrong about police attacks. Granite cubes are not intended to protect public order and peace when police maintain public order and peace, to attack a police officer with a granite cube and other devices to harm a police officer. If you think that there must be early elections, for God's sake, let us gather 46 signatures because you do not have them, and I am sure that with your way of working and with your bullying and intolerance in this Chamber, you will not get 46 votes in this Chamber of Democracy. That's definitely not the way it is. When we talk about protests, protests are in Ljubljana, nowhere else in Slovenia are they protesting. Who's protesting in Ljubljana? Why are they protesting? We talked about this a lot on the board. To report to the police here in the hall that the police are guilty of violence in Ljubljana and that we have seized Ljubljana, for God's sake, what is wrong with you? Who attacked who first? Did the cops attack anyone? You really don't live in Slovenia anymore, so you don't know this, because you can directly monitor what happened in Ljubljana. At an unannounced meeting, an unprotected meeting, a meeting organised by the organizers and called for a force and threat to attack the police, the sovereignty of the state, to block the bypasses, to prevent the presidency of Bled and Brdo near Kranj, you today claim that the police of this hooligan who injured the police attacked and that it is her fault that six police officers were injured. This is irresponsible, this is not serious and in some ways you have the right to everyone's opinion, even the Slovenian nation will create with your way of communicating here in the Chamber your opinion. And that's right. You're talking about personnel exchanges at the police station. Is this a political exchange because the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration has advanced to the deputy after 35 years of his career? The director of the Kranj Police Administration took his place. Is that political change? What kind of political change? These have already had important tasks in the previous government and the previous government. They've been directors of police administrations for many years, but you don't understand that it's a career system, and it's the police, because the careers of those who are capable of it are progressing. Have any of you been intimidated by the fact that the source of information has been intercepted or cut? I have also highlighted this on the Internal Policy Committee, because the KUL Coalition Member knew more about the situation in the police than I did as Secretary of State, but about the specific information about what was going on in the Internal Protection Department of the police, some services, which I was frankly surprised at. But why did he know more than I do? Because someone wanted to harm this coalition in such a way that you have been misplaced between you, to spread that lie through the means of public information, and no one is discussing how a single chairman, who has more than 7 months and 17 or 15 days in the drawer of a criminal complaint against a tycoon, can ask why someone is on leave, but demands that a complaint be filed for Tonin before they have spoken to Mr Tonin, the prosecution has rejected that complaint. But who had such a political interest, an immediate complaint that the media would call in, Tonin wouldn't. He was, and the D.A. dropped it right away. But a man who's on vacation needs to be sued before he talks to him, that's not how it's done, that's not how it's done. But you don't bother with that. During this period, 40 police officers were injured. Is that normal? Neither one of you has stood up for the poor cops who maintain order so that you can create and work and build democracy peacefully here. Some build it, others tear it down. Take it down in such a way that you support illegal, undeclared protests. And don't tell me that when Covid was acting, Covid and someone made up, we will cycle, regardless of the fact that the larger gatherings, 50, 100 or 500 were banned in the middle of Ljubljana. But mostly the presidents of the KUL coalition were led by these bikers without masks, without anything. Is that democratic? Instead of condemning such cyclists to first get permission to comply with the law. No, that's cool, that's cool, if you don't have security, if you're working past the law, past the rules, past the rest. It's not cool for me. The same goes for everyone regardless of who's in power. The law is the law, the Constitution is the constitution. That someone was saying that we were politically in charge of the police and the headquarters. The first measure was carried out on an individual with regard to gas resources 16.45. The provision for the use of coercive means against the crowd was issued in 16.51. Mr. Hoys, Mr. Hoys has arrived at election headquarters at 19.20, has arrived at headquarters, I'm sorry, has arrived at headquarters at 19.20. I personally Ljubljana, where the 3rd headquarters was, 19.35. [[Incomprehensible]] How could we command? For 10 minutes, I was at the Ljubljana Police Administration headquarters along with Dr. Anton Olai, Director General. I went there with him. We had over 40 protected people. If the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for National Security and the Minister for Home Affairs are not to be concerned about the safety of protected persons and those who have been escorted, who will be cared for by God if not by us. We're also worried about our safety more than once, no matter where you belong. The security of the Member of Parliament. Today we are witnessing again the pressures where some, where the KUL coalition is followed, send the coalition government mail with bullets, upset the family members. Is that normal? It's not normal. Mr. Hoys got home mail at his home address. You didn't make it up, you didn't make it up, you didn't make it up, but it's not democratic. This action is worthy of conviction. You tell us in the KUL coalition that we are responsible and responsible for the dead in relation to the covido. Do you remember who troubled wearing masks in this hall, who troubled wearing masks in primary schools, who led the propaganda against vaccination? Today we are witnessing that Europe is where developed democracy is stricken and living normally. Obviously, we will be able to do much for democracy, so that some will also trust and follow and provide health care in some normal democratic environment. Speaking of decrees and rulings. Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases is still in force. Always. But if you think, from where I know, we don't rule out people, this government doesn't rule out, this government connects, this government unites, I've said before, it visits regions, it hurts someone terribly. Mayors in all regions support this government, from different parties, also your mayors from your political parties support this government. I have not yet heard that any mayor would be against this government, even Zoran Jankovic, because he is pleased that he has received so much money by law or by raising the average in Ljubljana, you have not been able to give the local community so much money before. You're picking up where Slovenia's going. Slovenia is on the road, where it is at the very top of unemployment, and this government has managed to reduce unemployment to 3.9% because we have a responsibility because we care about Slovenia because we care about Europe. And if we have been able to carry out the presidency to the end once, successfully, this time we will also carry out the presidency to the end and successfully. Not only successful, a model for all other members of the European Union. It is true, however, that this opposition does not at this time agree that this government is successful, but the results and figures are those that show the government's success. And surely voters will have the opportunity to judge whether they are for a coalition that builds and creates for the better tomorrow in Slovenia or for the KUL coalition, which excludes and does not give opportunities, let alone opportunities for a better tomorrow in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The replica of Lydia the Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u34	Yes, none of you have joined the police force, that's what Mr. Kangler said. And I'm asking you if you've listened to the LMSH position. Did you listen to your colleague Jerco Korčetovo, where she said clearly and loudly that we trust the police in LMŠ? But we don't trust this minister who says that these police officers are lazy and snotty. And there's only one more. You said Mr. Hoys got home mail and if that's normal. As far as I'm concerned, it's not normal. Nor is it normal for me, as an MP, to get into the National Assembly human mud after domestic shit. That's not normal either. Therefore, Sir Kangler, self-reflection is a miraculous word that will help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Proposer Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u36	Yeah, just one quick question possible for the police. Now, Mr Kangler, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has stated that KUL coalition representatives send letters with bullets. I hope you have solid evidence for this statement. And given that a police investigation is ongoing on this matter, I have serious doubts as to whether this will take place without any influence such as Mr Kangler's apparent tendency.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u38	Your Honor, you obviously don't understand. This letter shipment only gets a coalition. None of you from the KUL coalition get bullets and threats like that. At least [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] May I?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u39	Dear colleagues [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u40	At least until this point, it is not visible. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u41	Don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u42	I don't have any information that any of you would get any kind of threatening letter and charge at this point. At this particular moment. And apparently someone who supports the KUL coalition, who fights to break this government, threatens, upsets the family members of each policy and the presidents of political parties with such mail. You probably understand me now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask the Members and Members on my left to be respectful and not to disturb the speaker when he speaks because this is contrary to Rule 75(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Korazia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u44	It is procedurally intended in essence for Mr Kangler and also for you, Presidents, who are chairing this meeting. Look, Mr. Kangler is accusing and deliberately deceiving and deliberately accusing the KUL of blaming us for sending these letters to our home. First of all, he should know that as a police officer here, is this a guilty charge? But if they're running criminally, it's just that a criminal procedure has been initiated, and you shouldn't even be talking about it here. Yeah, that's right. So I'm actually asking you to warn him not to say that anymore and spin the story to the left and to the right. In fact, this is the fault of the accusation, which is what Mr. Government Representative is doing here today, or the Secretary of State. And if you'll excuse me, please stop. Otherwise, let's stop the session. It's procedural. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Calm down. This is about legislation, and it's no longer a joke. Understand? [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u45	Dear Sir. I politely ask for peace in the hall. Dear Mr Korazzi, this is not a procedural proposal. And I respectfully request that you do not violate the rules of procedure. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u47	Mr. Kangler, please. I didn't see the procedure. Violeta Tomic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u48	But I have a procedural proposal. Mr. Kangler apologizes to all of us Members of the KUL for the lie. Because the police, or you, or the Ministry, are working as a man who is ideologically so blinded that you are willing to incite completely innocent Members to something that is only inside your head. Do you know how much I get home every day? How about five hours, take a look at the file when the street was closed for five hours, because I got home white powder. Did you find him, this consignor? You're not. And when I get from the human bones carved crosses, through the post office, and when I get countless signed mails with the SDS voter and threats, where are you, Mr. Kangler, then your police? It is said that the police protect only the SDS party and that it has become a party police, which is contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. My procedural proposal, I repeat, Mr Kangler, to apologize to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u49	Your Honor, Mr Kangler has heard, I do not think that an apology is an integral part of the procedure and of the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of the meeting. Mr Chernigoj, I also remind you that you respect Rule 75(3) of the Rules of Procedure if I do not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u50	Yes, thank you very much. I will answer the honourable Member for a moment. I live in a society where democracy is, and freedom of expression is one where the problem can be discussed. You want to prohibit here what Mr Jelinčič has publicly published and some other politicians who have received the threat are public data and that I should not discuss it. As for the honourable Member, you know, for your case, I don't know if you've reported him, any of them to the police, I hope the police will find out, but if you haven't, that's entirely your responsibility. [[advertising from the hall]] How many times have you reported it? [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u51	I apologize for violating the Rules of Procedure. By 5 p.m., I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 16.42.) [[The meeting continued at 5 p.m.]] :
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u52	Dear colleagues! We continue the debate. The first word is Anja Bah Žibert, prepare Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u53	President, thank you so much for your word. In fact, the presence in the Chamber where there is only one proposer out of the five speaks of how the applicants took this meeting, but, if written down, I can only say, a fully-depressed session, aboriginal statements and, more recently, motioners, who continue to say how important the opinion of the Legal Service is, this session has collapsed and also said that it is a constitutionally controversial proposal, which they have already received their epilogue and clearly not on the Committee. However, today may also be an opportunity for us to respond to some of the old who repeat themselves and for citizens and citizens to see firsthand how and what. It is true, and one year and a half of the government of Janez Janša is behind us, not for two years and the fact is that Slovenia is already half different in the year. It's different and let me show you how very different. The next two budgets, about 5 billion and a half will go into investment in infrastructure, will build roads where there were no roads today, including highways, will go to health care, social security, education, the environment. 4.5 billion euros. Slovenia is different. It is at the top of the scale where we are below 70,000 unemployed with countries with lower unemployment, and this is also the smallest share or number of unemployment since December 2008. Yes, Slovenia is successful. Some were afraid of debt, interest on the debt of the budget fell. Look at the data on your government's interest rate. Yes, Slovenia is different, it is successful. Staff growth, 2.8 highest in the European Union. Yes, Slovenia is different. Slovenia is successful. Today we have confirmed the first reading of the increase in income, where the average salary, if approved, will increase by €260 next year, then €520, €780 and then €000. Yes, Slovenia is different. Economic growth, 6.3, under this Prime Minister of the Government. Let me say that the averages have already risen and will rise. At the end of the year household finances increased by 9 per cent compared to 2019 when your Government was your Government and household debt decreased. These are the indicators of this government, and at a time, respected when we are facing the biggest crisis, medically when we are dealing with Covid, but Slovenia records outstanding results. The fact is that we are also in a crisis with a covider as successful as we can talk about it, because the health system is still working, and I hope that we will continue to do so. Now let me have a few more answers. Look, you were talking about how it was the government's fault that people went to the streets. These individuals who went to the streets came to these streets before the appointment of this government. This government hasn't been there yet, so it's depressed and inappropriate to talk about it. These people came to the street with your support. There you showed up, there you encouraged them, there are your sympathizers, mao anti so please don't talk about going just like that on their own. [[Incomprehensible]] The fact is that these meetings are not any protests, they are very organised meetings, but they are not reported because they do not pay all the obligations and costs they should pay. About 50 million of us cost one such meeting, and these are the facts. Come in. You were talking about the police being abused, the force being somehow enforced, please, who on which side were they injured? What side were they really injured on? Police officers were injured because the streets broke down, destroyed, and these meetings were violent and violent meetings, respected, stopped not only in Slovenia. Violent meetings need to be stopped. Look, you're the Trieste Violent Meeting, the tear gas, the cannon. More pictures from Italy, pictures from Paris. The same was true in Germany. And not only in Germany, at a time when they were preparing to host the highest representatives of the European Union, the police reacted the day before the event itself in that area with the same funds. She's already protected the area days ago. I believe that some in this National Assembly do not agree with the fact that the police have successfully protected the area because you probably wanted not to see any inappropriate or any matter occurring during our Presidency and at the time when we hosted the highest representatives of the European Union. This country is a successful, respected country. Take a look at the visits of the Foreign Minister of the Government. Once a guest, twice a host. I think all foreign ministers can be ashamed in the past of how much activity the current Foreign Minister has had. Not only is this Slovenia successful, but it is also respected and successfully guided, of course, but you do not respect it. If it were true for Slovenia, if it were true for your jobs, it would of course be completely different for workers, because they would cooperate. The only thing you're afraid of is the fear of breaking down the party fate from the capital network written by Pezdir. Let me just put something here. In the parallel system, it was not only about the export of capital, the theft of social property, the theft of employment and so on, but it was about a system that allowed the party to remain in power today. Every time the system creaked, this parallel system was turned on and the capital was absorbed. And when the system broke down, this parallel mechanism was crucial that the party, in the form of cross-sectional networks between the economy and politics, survived and was established and formed in transition as a transitional designer. Therefore, this parallel system, which was hidden, was invisible because it could not be fought against. Yes, the government of Janez Janša does not control the state, but not the state of Slovenia, but the deep state and it is now decomposing. And that's why the dragon you're updating is so loud. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u55	I am exactly pleased to hear everything we will hear in the introductory positions and then in the first debates and, of course, we can be prepared for it. First with these blind maneuvers, or as I can tell them, these are counter-intelligence receptions. Phenomenal economic growth, negative interest rates, unemployment and so on. You mentioned the game, too. Do you know who did these things by hiring huge loans, then helicopter sharing that money, and finally collecting credits that ended, of course, in hyper-inflation, in the collapse of the entire system? It's a rhetorical question. So with the same communist grips, you are now boasting, but who's going to pay for these 10 billion poofs is completely irrelevant. It's important that this is your success now. But it's very short-term and very naive thinking. Just for a call, and now for you, Mr. Kangler. You know the sickest thing not to say sickly is what you've told us is that we're responsible for threatening the Prime Minister and the ministers with death. And then you refer to publicly available sources of information. I went to look at this contribution now. You did not state the source, and the Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarians said so. Maybe we'll need to get a security weapon. You didn't say that. I think the KUL sympathizers did this, said Mr Jelinčič. You cited it without a source. You explicitly accused the opposition of triggering it. But you're not anyone, you're the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, and these things can't go through that easily, so there was a request or wish, a request by colleague Tomić even more in place, and you didn't hear it. You're not anyone. But when we warn you that similar things are happening with us, with all the Members, we all received these threatening letters, and now you are hand in hand, and so you said, I will quote you correctly: "If you have declared that they will investigate this, but if you have not, this is your problem." That's what you said. Are we going this way, or are we going to have the same vats for everyone? And then you hope to expose the legality and legitimacy of the protests, the riots, the meetings, however you want to mark them. People just fight back. And this rebellion is spontaneous. Maybe he's not legal. Maybe. But that's not what Franz Kangler's gonna find out. Frank Kangler can't find out. And he can't even establish legitimacy because every protest under the Constitution is legitimate. A man can protest anything he wants. This does it legally or does not concern other institutions, not France Kangler. The protest is constitutionally guaranteed, and you wanted to abolish it when they read the Constitution peacefully before Parliament. In a democratic way, you will say, you have forbidden it. And now you're surprised when people start expressing their opinions a little bit more. Who should actually be sitting here in front of us today? You were sent to the fire. There are many people here who should sit and answer the questions of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the constitutional task of the National Assembly. Of course you must be here and it is also right that you are part of this system, but you are still the most responsible, Prime Minister, Zdravko Restoršek, Aleš Hojs, Matthew Tonin, Janez Cigler King and many others. Some who do so even sit on this side of the seats. And this is not only a deposit of accounts of some government representatives, but also all those who actually support this happening now support it. That is, collective responsibility will be, but without my voice, because I will not be silent, even if you mark me as the one who destroys democracy. What is more democratic than a member of the National Assembly speaking? And this, this morbid reference to state-of-the-art, what is it? Is your state-of-the-art autocracy, the humiliation of all possible people, the vehement arrogance? Because whatever you do, it's unmistakable, completely unmistakable. You'll always find an excuse, at least with yourself, to justify it. But no, what happened, exactly in all the times of this life, politics got complicated, right at all times. In the medical profession, you can't deny it. They're coming to the surface of all kinds of information. Directly, the policy decided instead of the profession in the procurement processes of the protective equipment. The Court of Auditors submitted 13 suspicions of criminal disclosure. According to the information I have, the police haven't even come to the Court of Auditors for a year to take over the paperwork. Did you also stop this case, as you did that complaint against Matthew Tonin? Not to mention police and education politicization. You say, rotation. Yeah, a thousand 600 I don't know how many rotations you've had in the last year, and the Tacn penal system has created itself. The result of all of this is that I will express myself Scripturally because I believe that this is close to you. It's like locusts get stuck in some field and destroy everything. You know, Mr Kangler, we who work in the investigative commissions, by the way, 3 investigative commissions have only been established because of Covid in this National Assembly, and we, who see this documentation, can assert in confidence, sovereignly, supported by the fact that it was a crime that your policy has enabled. Finally, I hope that once things move and that others will be able to investigate this, because the parliamentary commission is not a legal procedure, is a political process. We have no help, no power, because when we find political responsibility, even if we prove, I don't know, visibly from space, this is where the vote will take place. But how it is voted and what the results of the vote are, we see. You're giving yourself forgiveness and you're giving them to yourself in the future. And political responsibility is fundamentally insufficient. In fact, one doesn't even know what to focus on anymore because there are countless of these things. But to these specific questions that I have asked you, I want answers here because this selective stop will soon come out. It's coming and it shows that you're not as innocent as you're defending yourself. Not to mention, I'm going to get a little bit of a hold of these words. With chemical weapons, you went over your own people, because tear gas is a chemical weapon. This didn't happen, I don't remember in Slovenia. I don't care if this is happening in Germany, Austria, Trieste, I don't know where. There are two million of us. And if a few 10,000 people don't agree with you, huh? Let's hit people with rubber bullets and chemical weapons. I am confident that the matter could be limited and reconciled with less aggressive procedures. But aggression, as you say, produces only aggression. If we were to talk to people, if we were to think of them as equivalent, but not as some bikers, artists, I don't know, couch-socialists, because you always find a word with which you try even more to offend the one on the opposite side, but you do it yourself, all by yourself. No one is to blame for this and the words you choose. Then it's our fault? We won't. And for what you have said, however, that we are directly and explicitly guilty that the Prime Minister and ministers have received threatening letters with bullets, and I really expect you to react as men and as professionals. And tell everyone what you were really thinking. Or in the future, choose your own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I was actually waiting and hoping that this debate would not go where it really went and where we are, I believe, on this side of the hall everyone expected it to go. What is asked by colleague Pavšič, I understand as follows. So apparently the police have already received instructions on what the results of the investigation of these threatening letters must be. As the Secretary of State has said, the findings will be that these letters were sent by the opposition. And that is purely in the manner in which his superior followed, that is, Minister Hojs, as we have said the unrelated Members in our position. Of course, by making such frequent visits to the operational units of the police, not just with explicit instructions that appear to be coming, you also have indirect influence and pressure on the police. And I understand this implementation as I said: the result of the investigation will show that these letters came from the opposition. And then again, all the poor and all the victims and the successful attention will be diverted from what is probably more important, which is happening at the same time. But I will not even deal with the Secretary of State, who is the only one present at this meeting today, as all involved are the least important. However, we can see that Mr Kangler's responses and implementation only confirm how important this meeting is and how wrong this government is. How its members only reflect what we now say in this meeting, how people in all other functions in the second and third steps, and probably others, operate in the same way. How communication works, today the implementation of this meeting by the Secretary of State is a very good example. Lies, deceptions, twists, flips, fingertips and personal discredits, it's an operating mode that's been dragging all the time. And of course then we get the results you have today, i.e. that two thirds of the citizens and citizens of this government do not support it, and we wonder why. You say those numbers for free, you say how successful we are. We have lost all reputation in the international public and you have also lost it in Slovenia. However, this meeting and the functioning of this government, certainly more extensive than this story with threatening letters, has proved to be true, because of the strong responses of the public and the media, as well as the opposition, with the use of tear gas and water cannon, there have been similar protests within a week, but the police have not used so much force on them and you will not believe, they have passed peacefully. One week later, not sooner. And that's just a confirmation that we're right to point out that this kind of behavior was essentially triggered by more violence, because violence always breeds new violence. Your words always give birth to the same words, and eventually they give birth to envelopes. I'm sorry. Let's move on. The epidemic, too low inoculation, threats to citizens and citizens with such and the same measures, and we have already warned that, of course, three members of the Government speak in their own way, each other, we do not know who to trust at all. We have also often shaved off the vaccine when the Prime Minister of the Government as Minister of Health, in full consciousness, decided not to order a more expensive vaccine to save here too, on the back of citizens and citizens, and decided to get the cheaper, cheapest one. The one who was the most controversial and with whom people, because of the complications that have also occurred abroad, no longer wanted to be vaccinated, and this is your fault and it is and from there it went with vaccination only down and through the communication that you use and by excluding the profession, to which he always warns, it will not change, but now you can threaten or not. However, it has proved to be more than once that this government is not even a collective body. The last thing we talked about today was the establishment of a university in the Grimm. Today. Why? Because this one person, who decides on behalf of all ministers in the government, and I repeat again, the government is no longer a collective body, it also happened that the ministry actually had a negative opinion on this and the government did not consider it. The envelope “whatever” did not open up somewhere. There's something left in the drawers and the ministries can't think the way they think. They have to think the way someone thinks. And it doesn't really matter what any minister says. It doesn't matter what Zdravko said, because the President of the Government says something else, and it will. Come in. Of course, this is also a symptom of what you do. You're creating a war in all areas. War with the international public, war with other European countries, war with the media, war with the courts, war with the opposition and others. I'm most sorry that you're creating a war with a professional, medical profession that we need the most right now. We really sat on an investigative committee and listened, members and former members of the consultative group, to what they told us. And if we listened to them more, it would be different today. I hope you're saying the way I'm sitting here. Multiple transplants and fewer deaths. However, there is a much more positive communication that would bring other things forward. It's a different direction than we have right now. And, of course, in this same manner, it is also the last response when Members to the President of the Government and to the Ministers addressed several calls regarding the government's reaction to rising energy prices, too, on mistakes your government learns nothing. You continue to communicate the same way and serve again, for the first time, silence and then intimidation. The same were answers in the same way with the same things. Then, of course, there will be a great savior who tells us that the excise duty will be reduced in the energy industry, which represents perhaps a few percent in all prices. In all the components of the prices that could and could be reached by the government, we are now talking about 6 cents. You've got to be kidding me!? You're really making a fool of yourself, and you expect it to not be the way it is. Of course it's what it is, because it can't be different. And just for the end, of course, the best, Twitter communication. Twitter communication of all ministers, some of which do not even distinguish between officer and officer. It would be good if we took a look at that. How, of course, a Twitter client subscribes to the government's profile, how it discredits everyone and everyone, what names they are addressed, what lies are wasted. The last one I mentioned was in the position that no one was vaccinated last Saturday. I believe that at some point such information may have been such, but then there was real information, but it is the duty and responsibility of the Prime Minister to correct something that was wrong and to say that it was wrong and not to use this information to further discredit and attack citizens and citizens. I know you're gonna take it all now, now you're gonna write it down, you're gonna turn it all around, but that's exactly what I'm saying. Exactly that's the symptom of this government, exactly what you're about to do. I hope that citizens and citizens will listen to you because this is exactly what makes us where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll answer Mrs. Slug first. The honourable Member, with respect to the reputation, of mine, of yours, and of yours, of the outside, the country of Slovenia has a good reputation in Europe and in the world. What a reputation you will have, and I will be judged by the electorate, as you yourself have said. I didn't leave the SMC. I left the government coalition. And I am firmly standing here now, too, in my position. But let them decide and judge the reputation of the electorate. You're talking about protests. 5. The 10th was violent protests. You're deceiving the public. It's true. Forced funds were used because hooligans in the middle of Ljubljana attacked police officers. And you are here today defending the hooligans and accusing the police and their bosses of ordering the use of coercive means. However, you are neglecting important information, and that is also true, here I agree with you, the following protests were peaceful. Why? Because the police are 5. Ten-two decommissioned, 48-hour detention. And it's true, the next protests were much calmer, there were no hooligans, there were no attacks on the cops. Perhaps you here today, honourable Member, are putting pressure on the police when they listen and see that they are guilty of defending the constitutional order and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And the next time it's necessary to defend Members of Parliament and the National Assembly will say so, because we don't know if we're doing the right thing or not. Is that the way? No, that's not the way. I, too, can consider this to be the Secretary of State when we discuss that this is pressure. And it's kind of a pressure. Only cops are independent, professional, fast, efficient, and above all legal. By 8 November, the Commission will find out whether the use of coercive measures was in accordance with all the rules or if there was a breach. I haven't lied to a single word here, but I'm not sure you've told the whole truth. And it's not an insult, but I have a right to my opinion, because it's true what I said. Mr. Pashovich, you didn't listen to me. You misunderstood me. When I was talking about Ambassador Tomic, if she didn't report it, it was her fault. How should the police know that [[…]] [[background advertising]] May I? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u60	Please, we have one speaker to discuss, not him. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u61	How are the police supposed to attack her just in case? If she didn't report it, it's her own fault. You didn't understand. In this context, my word was spoken. But you have spoken the untruth, my dear Pawnee. You accused me here of accusing Matthew Tonin of taking care of and stopping the procedure. Police, Ministry. No, no, no. The pre-trial procedure directs the State Prosecutor's Office and against Tonin because it is not a crime because there are no elements to the crime, the proceedings have stopped the Prosecutor's Office, state. How can you say that? You're talking about criminal water in Tacno. You have no idea what your predecessor was doing at the Ministry of the Interior. Every year, 150 police officers retire. And the Tacn police school graduated from 90. Did Hojs really have to come to the Ministry of the Interior for the Minister to open his eyes to some, the General Police Administration and Dr Anton Olaj, in order to ensure, where necessary, equal employment of police officers in the next ten years in accordance with all the rules. And this year we received 273 candidates for police officers, and earlier in the 1990s, and the needs were twice as high as the Tacn professional staff. And you're here claiming criminal water. Where did you get that information? That's a lie. This cannot be a criminal platoon, but experts are the ones who educate Slovenian police officers. You're talking about chemical weapons. What chemical weapon? Police used gas to ensure public order and peace. At the time the police disbanded the undeclared meeting, they called on the participants to remove themselves, and they began attacking police officers with granite cubes. They threatened mine, yours, and any other life, but you know how. Do you think it appropriate for protestors to break into a highway or a highway and block traffic? Is that normal? Is it normal to protest and break Ljubljana? It's not normal for me. It's not normal. You are right, freedom of expression and the constitutional right of everyone is to protest. It's a constitutional right, but you're protesting in accordance with the law. What bothers you is a Slovenian police officer on the street. Who damaged the helicopter pilot's eyes? What if a helicopter crashed in the middle of Ljubljana? Do you care about this pilot? We wouldn't be condemning the pilot's attacker who used a laser to damage the pilot. Did the pilot make that up? Did the cops hurt themselves? Defend the hooligans. The one who peacefully protested also responded and withdrew from the police, who had an interest in creating conflict and riots in Ljubljana was involved in the use of coercive and other means. I'm sorry I have to defend it because it's a fact. This is a fact, and I must point out that even Europe has had more than 40 protected persons Brdo pri Kranju some even in the centre of Ljubljana have been inhabited. You say Section 9 was first used. It is not true that when the pope was in Slovenia, article 9 was also used. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The replica of Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u63	Thank you. Just so long as there's not gonna be any of this left. And the transmission of words in the air again. I've never accused the police with a single word or pressured them. I accused you and your boss of understanding each other. You're the one who goes in there and gives the police instructions. I have never and never said that the police are guilty in any way or that I want to press the police now with my own words, because you're turning your back on the police, and I've already said that you will. As far as SMC's concerned. You know, we actually left SMC, but we left SMC after SMC left us and not him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u64	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u65	I know Janez Janša's collecting footage from the system is worse, but you don't understand as a secretary if I tell you that the road was closed with firefighters for six hours, with police vans, and you say yes if she didn't report it. I'm asking you who's going to pay for six hours of police work, firefighters, because they haven't found the unsub and it's easier to blame the opposition when you send some bullets yourself. You know the white powder was sent to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u66	Replica, colleague Pavšič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u67	Thank you very much. That the secretary accuses me of not listening to him or even deceiving him is a slightly nicer word for a lie, but it is unacceptable entirely. I'm interested in a few things. You've avoided key things and you've turned your back on words. So you personally knew everything about the forecasting process. You were talking about the permits and the pressure to form some sort of criminal conviction you said so yourself. We didn't see that coming. Like two. The tear gas is a chemical weapon by all conventions. It was also used in World War I and World War II. Third time. Children who played in playgrounds in Ljubljana did not protest, but they had to flee from the tears not to talk about hooligans, but about the proportionality of the use of coerced ones or as I do not know what you call them. Where's the apology for misbehavior, the accusation? You accused us directly of sending envelopes with bullets. Mr. Kangler, we can request an interruption until we have the magnetogram and we're going to read exactly what you said, no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u68	I have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u69	As far as Tacna's concerned. When the media reported this, whether you like it or not and among those in the so-called criminal water, as I say to them myself, are two or more recently leading police officers. Still, read the article. You don't have to question me in the middle. But it is true that what the colleague warned you, you turn your back on words, and you are very quick to avoid unpleasant questions. When you come to the Court of Auditors for documentation, that was a direct question. If you already know all about predictive procedures, then you'll know something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u71	Yeah, president, it's gonna be a little funny, but I have a procedural proposal, and now I don't know if my colleague had a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u72	Yeah, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u73	Then I'll probably give him because you probably won't give me a replica of the replica, but direct lies have been told and I'm asking you to give me a replica of the replica. But just procedural, so now I'm just gonna say it. Look, Violeta Tomic said exactly that we send bullets to each other. [[advertising from the hall]] You've had it, and you've confirmed it one more time. Now look, chairman, what's going on in this National Assembly is really beyond all limits. Bullets got families. It doesn't matter, whose. Families were given, families with small children [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] small children.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u74	May I have some peace, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u75	And I won't allow it. I really won't let you talk here. And you're laughing about it. And now all I'm going to tell you is the epilogue of this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u76	Tell the procedural proposal about the epilogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u77	Epilog yes, epilogue, and then I'll make a procedural proposal. First of all, I would like, of course, to ask my colleague Violet Tomic to apologize, because I didn't send any bullets. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't be a fool, really. Please don't bother me, Your Honor. Do you know what it means to get a bullet? Do you even know what you're saying? I've been listening here today, and there's going to be blood. Now you're talking, you're gonna get a bullet, you haven't got one yet. Let us, presidents, really please let us protect this National Assembly in the sense that we will still have a normal conversation. I'm guessing we're not so far away that we're gonna let someone get shot at home and get this family. And indeed, this is my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u79	And then I asked you for a replica of the replica because it's an exact lie and I'll tell it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Anja Bah Žibert, you know that the content of the Rules of Procedure is not a business proposal, i.e. I have no authority to bind anyone's mouth in any way. But I can appeal to you all to refrain from any charges that have been sent to anyone. I believe that the competent authorities will do their part. I hope some research results are soon to be known. I think as far as this is concerned, we're all in the same skin here. And we will suffer the same consequences if we do not ask ourselves whether it is still right to bet ourselves in this way or not. But look, we're at a meeting today where we're dealing with specific points. The one you talk about a lot, it's not exactly written. And I suggest that you all concentrate on the session itself, on what it was intended for or why it was called for, and stop accusing each other of who sent anything to anyone. Procedural proposal, Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u81	Mr. President-in-Office. Perhaps you should call further on this procedure of my proposal, not only to accuse, but to interpret really purposefully what anyone thought, so that this division will only deepen between the left side of Parliament and the right side of Parliament. I don't think that's a decent level of debate. And please simply address this call. You've actually addressed him quite a bit, but that's really not right. The provocation afforded by colleague Žibert gave birth to counterprovocations. And he's not taking it anywhere. So I'm asking you to warn me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u82	Procedural proposal, Robi Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u83	Yes, thank you very much. Only to Mr Kangler will I read from the magnetogram exactly what he said today, because it has already been done: “We are also worried repeatedly about our safety no matter where you belong, the safety of the Member. Today we are witnessing again the pressures where some, where they are following the KUL coalition, sending the coalition government mail with bullets, upset the family members. Is this normal?" And once again you have come up with this subject: “I have no information that any of you would receive at this given moment any such threatening letter and charge at this given moment. And apparently someone who supports the KUL coalition, who fights to break this government, threatens, upsets family members, individual policies and the presidents of political parties with such mail. You probably understand me now." That's what you said. So the KUL coalition is to blame for everything?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u84	I get it, I get it. Look, this wasn't a procedural proposal either. I agree that we cannot share such views here, and I will interrupt this debate and the procedural proposals. It is unacceptable that you accuse each other of sending anything to anyone, since the police work in this regard has obviously not been done. I'm counting on it to be. But look, it's keeping us away from this session. I think it would be right for us to talk, or I don't think, the rules of procedure are for us to talk about what the meeting is about. By suggesting that we move forward and focus on these agenda items. The word is Matjaž German, prepare Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u85	Thank you so much for a good evening on my behalf. We must be aware of the consequences for every cause. Everything we do, everything we say, sooner or later, is either positive or negative after us, so we can be rewarded or not rewarded. So you, representatives of the government, of the coalition, must realize that it is not long since you received a very large earring of people — not from the opposition — at the referendum. And that's the meridian information that you have to be afraid of for the upcoming elections. For this decomposition, the sale of the reputation which we have witnessed in the last year and a half, has no limits. In foreign lands, we are seen as those who reject Jews, do not like Muslims, are allergic to another color, are those who limit homosexuals or want to limit freedom or the right to abortion. We are the ones who in some way restrict the freedom of the media and restrict the freedom of the judiciary. It's not just you, it's all of us. When I go abroad, too, they will say, this is the one coming from this country, which has become a new Poland, a new Hungary. And just the same model is, as we like to call it in the jargon, copy-paste is also applied in Slovenia. To produce as much of an affair as possible that people are already lifting their hands out of despair in some anomaly and actually disappearing before what is happening daily in the field of politics and not just their lives. So in the last few days we have witnessed an infinite number of affairs. In the area of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice does not raise judicial mail. The Minister of Culture is facing the committee because it is financed by a society of public interest, organised as a society of public interest and directly financed from our budget, and this society idealises Nazi ideology. Or the case of the Minister of Education, who is actually the Constitutional Court over and over again, proves that the decisions taken by the Government are illegal. The same applies to the Ministry of the Interior. In fact your decree, some of them, were either repealed or were proven unconstitutional. I'm talking about the government, but you proposed them, you wrote them from your ministry. Or the biggest anomaly of the anomalies. To the biggest protest of the 5th. 10. in which repressive means are used in such a form as we do not remember in history, every seventh protestor has actually been involved, however statistically, in some repressive activities or actions. Every seven, three thousand were on Tuesday, five. 10. and 400 rounds of such and different bullets were used and I am not talking about other repressive means. Why is it important to know what happened a week later? So we can understand that 5. 10. Excessive force must have been used because it is impossible to deal with only 3,000 protestors. And when Mr. Secretary of State, that's what you say. We have 11 protests under scrutiny, which have been disputed in one way or another, taking place under three internal controls. At least one of the internal controls proved that the Director of the Slovenian Police had an impact on the final report – influenced. The Director admitted that he had an impact on the final report. Moreover, the director of police admitted that he had gained control and control with the supervisors he had appointed, five of them. So, as we speak of the credibility of the police, what is necessary is that you all get rid of those who come from the world of politics. And don't tell me the police director doesn't come from the political world because he's a clear sympathizer if he's not yet a member of the SDS party. Why? Because he used to be a secretary at the Ministry of the Interior and had the same or the same function as you. What's worrying is, you can sell fairy tales that you motivated the police during a major protest, that you came to check what you said, a 40-member delegation from abroad who came to Slovenia? But God help you, you have come, Mr. Franz Kangler, you have really helped a lot to make sure that something, in the police, will carry out their tasks, which you said yourself, is independent and they are responsible. Don't tell me that when you were in elementary school, in college, doing a test, it worked for you if your teacher was standing behind your shoulder and watching what you were doing. That's how you started it. You, the director of the police, are still searching for Mr. Speaker, Jean Mahnic. Jean Mahnič, what authority does Jean Mahnič have to be in the middle of an action at the OKC or CVZ? This is an absolute abuse of your position and power and power. So it is a manifest abuse of police activities for political purposes, and you will not convince me that in these supervisory authorities or supervisors and supervisory groups that you have appointed to do the work in a non-political and professional manner. You won't convince me. Why? Since the Director has already recognised his role in the preparation of the first report, I am talking about yellow vests. Branko Grims says in the SDS' position that they were yellow jackets, they did nothing and were wrongly removed from the market, Prešernovo. Well, did Mr. Grimes even read the report? It's not true they didn't do anything. They were deservedly withdrawn, and you know what the report says, and I also know what the report says. More than that, on Dr. Olai's question, did any of the police advise, then, on the 25th? 6. When the jackets were removed to remove much of the crowd, as they say, from the police circles, we were not given an answer and it is all in vain to attribute to us that we do not sympathize with the police. Mr Kangler, you are one of the few governments, if not the only government that you have managed to bring together two unions that have had many very different opinions and I can guarantee you that the police are critical to you, ashamed of them, and that we are not talking as much about cops as the victims, because these are people who are rebellious and not like you who are “leaving” from day to day, how poor you are, unhappy because you are being wronged. It's your responsibility. Take responsibility for your actions, and sooner or later this will prove to be the case in the elections. For you personally, because you come from a small party that does not have a lot of political capital and you are here temporarily, perhaps for a customer of SDS, this will apply a little bit more. So, Your Honor, this is always a covert aggression, which, by stepping up verbal and then physical, in some way, has been exposed to three protests that have been proven excessively aggressive by the police, whose officers do not even want to be part of the policy that you are implementing. Look, it's very difficult to keep your blood calm under certain circumstances. Why? Because they happen on the daily basis of injustice and injustice. Not only for us, the policy that we are here, but for people outside, you are insulting them, you are actually putting them in a position where in their own country they don't feel safe, they don't feel that they can realize their ambitions and they don't feel free and that's the key thing that happened in the last year and a half. You're telling me for nothing what unemployment is like, what debt is. At a time when we don't even have a golden rule anymore, at a time when we owe ourselves on a daily basis. What helps a citizen to have GDP growth or low unemployment, when a large majority of those who actually feel unfree are even more unable to survive from day to day. These are numbers you say, and we tell you what life is. So, Your Honor, violence has been the goal, as it appears, of a preventive use of force that wanted to turn protests into violent protests. You can't tell everyone that the hooligans, respected, because we, talking about the KNOVS, confronted the director when he asked his colleague from the SD Group, Bakovic, whether they knew that 15. 9. There has been an incident or violent protests will take place. The chief of police said no. The deputy, at the meeting last week, said yes. We, however, faced the director that we were actually like laymen, members of the commission confronted the director that 15. 9. There were clear indications that some cheerleading groups would be over police officers that day. And the police didn't know that, so I wonder if it's planned. It's not in the reports. We've already talked about how the assessment, the safety evaluation of the work, which was marked by B by the way, is a medium threat after violent protests took place. Also a comparison between 5. On Tuesday and Wednesday later, it appears that the relatively same number of protestors could have been controlled without any shelling or used tear gas or water cannon a week later. Why, a week later, it was possible to stage protests in a calm manner and who, a week earlier, provoked violent protests at a time, as has already been said, that in the parks children, grandparents, mothers and when you were at a written meeting overnight, you applied Article 9 to an event you had already known about a year earlier, to protests that took place half a year before, and you were surprised to activate Article 9 and Ljubljana and Ljubljana, Slovenia and Slovenians or citizens and citizens of the following day woke up in a fenced country. There is no one on this government who knows clearly and loudly and in a human way to communicate with people what is actually going on. And this takeover by the SDS party, the whole police. I'm not just talking about the Prime Minister and the Minister, I'm talking about the NPU, I'm talking about the GPU, I'm talking about the Krim police. So we have never had such political repression in relation to the police. And Franc Kangler, no offense, you're not a big player here, big games are played by some other guys who aren't not competent and not qualified for it, but be afraid of those who help you and that's why it's absolutely necessary to depoliticize the police immediately after the elections, give the police a reinstatement, give the cops the reputation back to them, give them the reputation that police and police will be proud to go to work, but not like now, who actually cross us on a daily basis just before us politics, that we're not able to make these changes in society and in the police. So, it's madness that happens in broad daylight, in front of us, and as the philosopher Dollar said, repression is an exclusive and only expression of powerlessness, and this aggression is an expression of incompetence and incompetence, and that's why the street is happening to you and it's all in vain, you're calling for elections, respected. How much did you get, your client? You're asking us to be brave, 46 votes. People will tell you. It is not in vain that you have managed to kidnap democracy in the National Assembly as well, and that some individuals do not understand the historical moment of change of society, which is not positive, but not negative. But it is, and we will fight to the end, to the end of the election, and also victory is not self-evident, but we will fight for what we believe in. Everyone in our country should do for what's competent. You absolutely share the power, the absolute reinstatement of democracy and more, and the revisions of authoritarianism that is being established in our society. So I don't like living in a country where the Minister of the Interior after the biggest, most aggressive police action in mass protests at the end of the day says that few protesters have been arrested. Is this the kind of country we want to live in? Whether citizens and citizens do not deserve a Minister of Home Affairs who can communicate normally with citizens and citizens, without lazy people, without prostitutes, without bottles, without mutts. Is that what we deserve? What did we do? Are we so different, left, right, that we made this out of the country what we have today? This is an absolute degradation of society that we do not deserve, regardless of our painful past. Is it really possible to share in this way that even after the Pater organized a partisan mass at the Holy Mountain of Nova Gorica, where he sang the partisan singing choir of Falanga from the right with the Prime Minister of the Government at the head hangs a floor that acts in the direction of reconciliation? Sea priests also helped with partisanism. The Partisans at the seaside have fought for freedom and you are actually attacking what should connect us. Is this the kind of company you want? And we rule out the opposition? The opposition is extremely broad in colour and various political views. And if anything has done us together, it's you, because we've come to a stage when we're defending democracy and democratic institutions and processes in our country. And I never, ever thought that as a third generation in the National Assembly, the postwar generation would have to talk about fascism, that our Prime Minister would hang out with Salvini. [[Incomprehensible]] These are people who are against the return of a cultural home or a national home in Trieste. These are people who act anti-Slovenianly in their policies. These are the people who have irregularity. [[?]] tending. Are we hanging out with people like this? Or with conservatives from the East, where in fact women no longer have the right to decide whether to make an abortion or not, or who are beaten by human rights who were exposed in postwar times in the free world. These countries are in the wrong direction and the solution are elections. And sooner or later, there will be consequences. If Gaddafi's regime has fallen, if Mubarak's regime has fallen, Janšev will also be, without worry, without worry, sooner or later, so don't act so vehemently, and you better understand that the need is due to our differences, which are, to coexist, also our grandchildren and children will have to. And the world doesn't end and it starts with us at this point, but it continues tomorrow. And one more thing, I am also very disappointed about the attitude of representatives of the Hungarian and Italian minorities in Slovenia. We have never had such a relationship in Slovenia alone. We can practically understand a set of very important laws in which minority representatives have intervened. And these interventions have also been not only in the legislation, but in the democratic image of our country. And it will be very difficult to put things back together in a way that we will respect and normally talk tomorrow, regardless of our differences without squawking and yelling at each other. What is happening in the National Assembly in this reference is unacceptable and our citizens and citizens do not deserve it. And that's why we need a reset. Re-election, re-establish relations, start building a National Assembly and a new government. And that's the only way our society will settle down. And that is the only way our citizens and citizens will feel safe and free. No matter what we say to each other here today. It's important and it needs a reset. Thank you very much and I wish you a fruitful discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u86	Thank you very much. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] On a procedural basis, Mr. Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that I have been in Parliament for a long time, but I have to say such nebulosis and I have not listened in a long time. But I'd like to warn my colleague to apologize. We have no influence on the police in the mission group and in the SDS. And if you're operating [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] And when you continue to operate on such information, have some evidence, not sell it as dry gold. I think it's enough that you hang some influences on us where they don't exist, because it flies on all Members, including those who listen a little more calmly to your debates. And you're talking about co-operation? Today you had the opportunity to co-exist and decide in this House as elected Members, and you, after home, screwed up and left the Chamber. And don't tell us what to do with it. You get used to hanging out. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u88	My friend Krivec [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u89	Even when you're in opposition. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u90	Procedural, what's he like?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u91	And minorities are equal members of this House. Don't humiliate them and tell them how to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u92	My friend Krivec [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u93	Those two are equal. I'm asking him to take his word back on the fact that the SDS party is influencing the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u94	This is not a procedural proposal. It's not there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u95	As far as I'm concerned, it's procedural. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u96	Look, it's not in the Rules of Procedure that someone asks for someone to take the word back. If anyone wants it, they can pull it back if they don't. See, the procedural proposal is intended to raise a business question. It is not for you to agree to label a debate as non-bullying or otherwise. Let's hold on to this. I know it's hard for you to listen to each other, but everyone has the right to say what he thinks, if, of course, it's in a respectful way. Who wants a procedural proposal? My colleague Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u97	Thank you very much, President. For a magnetogram and for your knowledge, because you are responsible for the work of the National Assembly, I must remind you that in his debate, a German colleague highlighted quite a few protected data relating to the exercise of surveillance at the General Police Administration within the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which we carried out some 14 days ago. I do not know which of these is really marked by a degree of secrecy, but given the fact that the KNOVS President did not wish to impose or approve the request of Dr Ola's Director-General to take full control of himself, I do not think that everything was done with a view to depriving the facts or telling and making certain claims outside the context. So much for yours always. I think you should be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u98	Thanks for the heads-up. Now, if any information is classified, please comply with the rules applicable to classified information. Procedural proposal by colleague Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u99	Yes, Madam President, let your colleague not be manipulated in such a way that he can see from the satellite below that he is manipulating. In the same breath he says he leaked classified information, and then I say I don't know what classified information is. Basically, he's got his big bomb show. Really, this is repulsive, and I'm asking you to warn her.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u100	Thank you very much. My colleague Sukič also failed my answer, so if there are any classified information, let's stick to the rules that apply to classified information and please, I don't know about this classified information. He had a friend Koprivc first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u101	Thank you very much, President. Mr Krivec, the SDS representative, has just made a very clear statement and has shown how he understands parliamentaryism. When you told him, Mr. Krivec, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. He told me he didn't care. It's procedural for me. This is how we understand the functioning of the rule of law. I don't care. For me and our client, who is currently the government, it's procedural and it's enough and it doesn't matter what it says. Please warn Mr Krivec that there are some rules in place in Parliament, however, that the Rules of Procedure should be followed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u102	I warned him. Now you've done the same thing. We are now wasting time with business proposals that are not. Let us say if anyone has any business proposal on which article of the Rules of Procedure refers and then continues his explanation. If you don't look at the debate it's still 5 hours in the end you'll probably share the time you'll all be able to discuss everything you have to say, you'll be able to tweet, but let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. He's a German friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u103	I must explain to the honourable President in the form of a procedural one, because I do not have a replica. All that has been said will be made publicly available in the publicly available record and all this has already been said at the press conference I had as President of the KNOVS. There's no fear here. In particular, I would like to advise you, Commissioner, that any information on the label will be exposed in any way. Thank you very much. A colleague can be uncaring. I'm gonna stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u104	Anja Bah Žibert, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I have a replica, not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u106	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u107	I'll be very quick. First of all, as far as the press conference is concerned, this does not mean that there has been no abuse by leaving it alone. A nice discussion by a German colleague said something that the biggest problem in Slovenia is what I said earlier that there has never been a breakdown of the communist system, which is today wrapped in a deep state and we have an Udbov economic parallel system, which of course needs to be maintained. Why do I say that? They're tripping today from Twitter. Dear Milan Kučan years ago, when there was no Twitter on the awkward question of a journalist, did you answer the already married? Not yet? Then deal with it. I didn't hear you. Second of all, when your Prime Minister went to a police union convention, you didn't resent how it didn't affect the police? Of course not. Only SDS has influence. And you never do. What's the worst thing I'm going to say to you right now. You who are coming from a system that is still moving today, Kidric, do you know what you were doing during the Lithostrom strike? Not only were police officers who were then typical militiamen prepared. She was ready for JLA, military police. The fourth year's cadets were ready, everything was ready to be accounted for. But they didn't know how. So, please, you who don't leave the system to decommission today and you have to maintain it anyway, are the last one to talk about democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u108	Procedural proposal? It's a replica of the replica. It's not. Proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I waited a little today to listen to different discussions, and this last one really encouraged me to come by myself. What we just heard is that you want to decommission the system, at least indirectly, you said that. And that's exactly what it is. And you've been working on this actively for over a year and a half. and decommissioning takes place right on all social systems and subsystems from the media to justice, to the National Assembly, to the legislative body in which you are sitting yourself, and you do not care about the fact that the executive branch of power is completely derogating from the powers that are coming to you. [[Incomprehensible]] There is definitely a decommissioning of the system - that is why protests are happening, so we are sitting here today, so we are calling for early elections. When it comes to the whole of democratic regulation becoming authoritarian, at least the fact is that it is so today, it is time to call the bob beans and go to the elections. And one who is so intensely afraid of people would wonder why. Because you're obviously afraid. Because if you weren't scared, you'd have gone to the polls a long time ago. And these manipulations, all of these discussions today from the opening positions, once again point to this classic operation of this coalition, in which you rewrite your own actions to another. Someone's been using absolute, categorical hate speech against minorities, against women, against any other thinking, against gays, lesbians and so on, someone's been doing it for years. Someone's normalized this kind of speech. Someone's normalized certain actions, and believe me, it's not the Left. I also hope to say that if we listen to our debate, at least the current term, you have not heard an enemy speech on this side. Most of the time he's always got a reasoned, respectful speech. It's a little different on the other side. Some of the videos they publish are also slightly different. Some others have encouraged intolerance and hostility for a number of years. And when you normalize hate speech, of course it goes to others. But that the street takes over the speech that's going on here, that's not true either. That's not true either. In my opinion, the vast majority of people want to express their beliefs and their desire through peaceful protests. Most people calmly expressed their will after the early elections. Now, to speak, it also seems a bit insulting to me that you are constantly trying to redirect that these are the protests of the organization, I don't know, Left, SD and so on, even on the basis that someone also, let us say, from our customers allowed them to participate in the protests. Yes, but who are we to ban our members from attending protests? We don't have it, like you might have to act on the dictatorship, we have free will over all of us. If anyone wants to go to a protest to express his support, we will never deny it to him on our part. You have protested in various ways in the past, and no one has objected to this. Because the right to assembly and freedom of expression is a constitutionally protected category and it is also applicable to support it. And the Constitutional Court has also told you that you cannot evaluate the right to assembly and that it is one of the highest protected political rights. Now, to say that this is a matter of policy, that politics organises protests, is an insult to people. What do you think people are so easy to convince, and that way they can manipulate? Now you're gonna bring thousands and thousands of people, with what? Why don't you let Levica and SD vote and we'll go protest? Oh, please. And someone has to lead people to this. Well, that's what you did. You limit them for a number of months, you take their rights, you take their fundamental rights and freedoms, and when they go to the streets and express their will to you, you don't accept it yet, but you blame the opposition, you blame them, you gave them. How can you so underestimate people? It's a total underestimation of people. It is no problem, it is already practiced on your part, that when, of course, there is talk about human rights and freedoms, I myself am very sensitive as someone who has dealt with it for many years. And your reaction is now a couple of times, including the secretary of state and so on, if I'm a little bit more, we'll say, and I don't think I'm loud, now I don't know if I'm loud to my colleagues, but with your hands like, calm down, and so on. See, when there is talk about human rights and freedoms when there is talk about the Constitution, when there is talk about the law, we will always be loud advocates on this side to defend a democratic state, to defend the Constitution and the law. As the Secretary-General has said, the law is the law, the Constitution is the Constitution. It would be very nice for the government to take that into account and follow that, and for example, when it states in 2 laws that PA has to be paid in order to do so. And on our part, all we ask is, too, that all we ask is that the law is respected, that the Constitution is respected, that it would be great, even if we respected constitutional decisions, and that we do not make a week-to-week decision that is empty, that you actually write people's lives so that we don't have to live in a country where you get some new rules for life from week to week. I think in this case it would be much easier and better for people to live. However, I ask you that peaceful expression, and peaceful protests, and the right to gather and express dissatisfaction, be heard, not exploited and manipulated by political parties, because they are not the political parties that organise it, are people. And they're not even just in Ljubljana, they're not just in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana they are driven from other parts of Slovenia, because you are here, here we are, here are institutions that are meant to say that this kind of operation of the government is not permissible and that we have to go to the elections. I think there have already been a million banners in which they have expressed what they want. And if the people tell you, we want to vote, I think the Constitution clearly speaks to who is in power in this country. And it's time for people to get their power back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word is Replica, a colleague of Anja Bah Žibert. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u111	Thank you very much. First of all, dear colleague Meira Hot, you are also a lawyer, and you certainly know the law. The law on public gatherings is clear. We have organized and spontaneous meetings. You yourself have said that you are not the organizer, but someone else, it is true that you yourself have admitted that we have organized meetings, and we do have them. How do we separate different meetings? With invitations and so on, with the same banners. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always defend the right to assembly, absolutely, and we will always defend it. It's just, Your Honor, this is about organized and undeclared meetings, organized meetings that are undeclared. And so far, citizens and citizens have stood for about one school, one home for the elderly or two kindergartens. Because of me, they can always organise them, but they should report them and pay all the necessary obligations, as we did when we organised the various meetings. Everyone settle what needs to be settled. They cannot be first and second-rate citizens. And something else, it's not true that people just remembered to go to the street, because then it would be a little funny that before the government was formed, they already knew what that government was going to do. In fact, the first meetings were organised prior to the establishment of this government. And you yourself have said that you are in favour of defending all democratic standards. How, then, can you say that the people want to go to the early elections? Where did you measure that, Your Honor? Did you have an election? We had an election three and a half years ago. And they were won by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Respect democracy, respect the election results. That's a fact. And you can't respect democracy just where it suits you, but you have to respect it everywhere. And the fact is, we formed the government because you pooped, not us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u112	Well, well. I suggest we calm the rhetoric. The word has a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not surprised by the level of communication, but I would like to respond to the honourable Member and the President of the KNOVS Commission, Mr Germany. Mr. German, I don't have to do this with my finger. The last communist to sore was Vinko Hafner, in Belgrade, in 1989. These times are over. Here's the word, not the finger. Do you know [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't need to be squandered, because you personally touched me, you told me I belonged to a low-capital political option. You know, I'm the president of the New People's Party, and I'm happy to see you perform. Two such performances, and the New People's Party will have better capital than your party and you are the President of the KNOVS Commission, the Parliamentary Commission, and you do not know what the Secretary of State for National Security is doing, what his tasks are. The State Secretary for National Security coordinates all security intelligence services in the country, coordinating. And here you are troubled by the visit of the Secretary of State who is in charge of national security of one headquarters, the headquarters that took care of protected persons, the headquarters that has taken care of public order and peace, and here you are also questioning and prejudiced, and you are already finding as a Member that excessive use of coercive resources and disproportionateity has occurred. One is the commission set up by Dr. Olay. You ignore and do not give information that the Ombudsman is also involved in this. Why don't you tell the public that the Ombudsman is also checking the use of coercive means. You don't trust the Keeper anymore? I trust him and it is right for the Ombudsman to check the actual situation and circumstances that have taken place 5. 10. and I think the guardian has received a lot of support in this house. And when you say that Dr. Anton Olay once interfered with the committee that was set up. He did not interfere, but it is true that he met with them because he wanted to have results, and I have introduced you here today and also informed you that it must be, work done, this commission must be by 8 November. And we, at the Ministry of the Interior, agree that there is a change of law, that external experts and members are also invited to this committee. But at the moment, it is such legislation that the Director-General, the Director-General of the Police, who sets up a commission when the use of coercive means occurs. [[?]] Always. And this gas, the gas used by the police, is not the same gas as used by the military and not to deceive the public. [[Incomprehensible]] It's not the same gas as the military used or used by the military. And I, I must say, you surprised me very much, Mr honourable Member, when you attacked me here, in this Chamber, both Members of the Nationality. You surprised me as a government representative. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm not a lawyer. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But I respect every Member, whether Slovenian or national, Italian or Hungarian, all 90 Members are the same, but here, in this house, attacking the Italian representative and Hungarian, that is your political responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u114	The procedural proposal, first of all Natasha Sukič, was the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u115	Madam President, I ask this, this is repeated again and again by the same story with Secretary of State Kangler, but please remind him that he is no longer a Member, that he is here as Secretary of State, and that he should speak strictly of professional matters relating to the content of this meeting without having to dispute with Members and Members about their views. This is not his task, and this damages the level and culture of this debate, so, please, politely, that once you have been demarcated, I think that once a respected Secretary of State, he is demarcating his role as Secretary of State from the former function of Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My friend Koprivc, I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u117	President, I would ask you to protect the National Assembly as an institution, because what Mr Kangler, Secretary of State, does is unworthy and unworthy of this institution. He cannot comment as a representative of the government, but he can politicise what a Member has said and what he has said about whom. This is unacceptable, President, and I am asking you to protect this institution, seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u118	Look, I will now, given that these two procedural proposals are identical, I will define myself to them. The representative of the Government has the right to present his opposing arguments. He has the right. He has the right to answer the question he has been asked. This is his right, so we have government representatives here to answer that. Sometimes they also say something that doesn't suit anyone, if it is, I'll say, from some sensitive area. But that's the right, the government representative, so we have them here. And there's something else I'd like to warn you about. I note that you do not talk, but I speak for everyone, I speak for you, Members, Members and representatives of the Government, not only face arguments, but then at some personal level, who knows what you were and what you were. I suggest we avoid that, say, look at this, you're a representative of the government, you did it and you did it wrong, you don't have the right Member, etc. It's not that you humiliate someone between the lines. I speak for representatives of the Government and for Members and Members of Parliament. Replica, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm just going to give Secretary of State Franco Kangler a brief answer. Mr. Kangler! I didn't attack minority representatives, I expressed my regret. This is my opinion, this is my regret, my regret to their doing. Please encourage and stop instigating, and the President of the National Assembly, if you have already told us what you are, then if there is anything you need to guard, it is for the Secretary of State to come here and speak the truth about the matters you hear. Another old, respected Franz Kangler. You, by sending your cavalry, politically to headquarters, operational headquarters, demolishing the police. That's the first thing. Another time. You're making an impression of politicization. What, the distinguished Secretary of State, in which protests take place at a time of protests, compared to any other Government, has invited anyone, not only the Minister, the Director, the Secretary of State and even the Secretary of State Security, to the headquarters. Nobody. Never. The police are independent, dependent Mr. Bradac, please, you are the last one to say anything in all your laws. [[…]] But let me answer one more thing. The police need to be monitored, but not by what they call and carry out, and even as you say, it directs or slanders the director of the police. The Director of Police acknowledged that he had intervened in the report, the distinguished Secretary of State, even if he had only corrected the comma. You don't do that. You don't do it. You don't do it. You don't do it. You don't do it. You don't meet before and after exercising control if you're the director of the police. You don't do that. And the Secretary for National Security, who has been shown to have friendship with people who glorify nationalist, Nazi ideology, this is proven, this person without qualifications, without responsibility is found at the headquarters during the most repressive protests we have witnessed in the history of Slovenia. If you're as smart as you are, you're not going there. The police are independent, they are qualified and they are more qualified than you for crowd control and what we wanted to point out is that every football derby between Maribor and Ljubljana, I apologize, during Olympia, poses a greater threat, more than 3,000 people gather, and you either sent a bullet or a gas bomb on every seventh of the last protests. That's what I'm talking about. And they weren't just hooligans, one very small part was them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word is government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, chairman. How do you know that you are the ruling coalition and the government of John Janša stamped against the wall? Today is the day where ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament are making this statement on their own. This morning a meeting began where I heard about flight 45 and continues this afternoon when I hear about the deep nets and about the little Red Scarlet from Murgel, which controls everything again just once between the communists from all the pores of the country and similar stories. These are the greatest myths and theories of conspiracy that the SDS always mobilizes when it comes to their fingernails. All this nonsense and lies that I've been forced to listen to in the last few hours since the beginning of this session have sent me to a joke you may not know. That joke where Janek decides to run for president. Because, of course, Janek is so eager to prepare herself well at home to knock on her parents’ sleeves for advice and information on how politics works. One of the parents is from Hungary after a slightly more distant relative in the Italian original, and the other from the parents is from Poland again after the original relatives from Germany. John talks to his parents. The next day comes before his classmates who first ask him: “Janezek, what is Parliament?” John answered: “Parliament is where it lies.” But then what is this government? “Yes, but the government is where it steals. But the ministries, Janek, then how do the ministries work? Yeah, yeah, the ministries are the ones where it's staffed. What about the judiciary, John? The judiciary, however, is the one where it lingers, does not open the mail and let the procedures go out of date. This is exactly the reality of Slovenia in 2021, which was led by the current government of Janez Janša. It's a harshly simplistic saying, but it's not true. For this power Parliament is the place where it lies, the government is the place where it is stolen, the ministries are the place where it is staffed, and the judiciary is something where it is only stalling. That's it. This is the total dismantling and usurpation of the country as a form of public good and subjugation of the entire state structure to the personal interests of SDS network leaders and their friends who are still operating in the private sector. And this reality has been overlooked and rejected by citizens and citizens in this country. That is why they have shown the true colors of ladies and gentlemen in power. Secretary Kangler says it was necessary to gas the centre of Ljubljana because there were hooligans among the protestors. But, you know, the biggest hooligans in this country wear skirts, wear ties, have Twitters and hold the highest political positions at the head of the government. I hold in my hand a brick of tear gas, one of those who flooded the centre of Ljubljana, all the passersby who went to work or left it, who sat in restaurants that eventually protested peacefully, including families, children and everyone else innocent. Practically everything that is wrong with the government of Janez Janša is concentrated in this shed of a tear gas fired. And also the methods by which this government operates. This tear gas was purchased with public money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, for which people in this country contribute in the form of taxes. It was used by a public institution, i.e. The police, but they used it as a political command. Why? To safeguard the private interest of the criminal SDS network currently in power. Not to insure our common public well-being, but to safeguard the purely partial interests of one party, which is acting in fact as a click of organised crime, in a way that implores to terrorise its own citizens and citizens, because this authority, together with state institutions, has taken them hostage. And in fact, what was flying under this government was flying through the window, because it was heard directly by schizophrenics, but this is the reality that we are living, that the concept of politics as responsible management of society and its institutions flew through the window. Let's just look at the covida-19 epidemic and government handling it. The practically total burden of the epidemic has been passed on to an individual. But it was the fault of those who did not wear masks, those who did not get vaccinated, and after all it was the responsibility of nurses and other staff in the homes of older citizens, we could have heard that. The government, however, is in fact the place where society is formed and run, i.e. management of institutions, renounced. And just running institutions and designing is why we have any government at all. Not only at present, the concept of government rests on the management of these institutions. Of all this, the government raised its hand, blamed one person, the other one in this society, and we got what? We've had a low splinter, we've had excessive deaths in the nursing homes and so on. All that remains of politics is the SDS with its friends as a predatory network that treats the country as its own vessel, and of course the repression by a political command that protects and connects both. But the worst thing that's really going on is in the law. Today, we had, say, a table of income that would tax the rich and turn EUR 800 million into a social state budget every year. And the privatization of health care is happening to us. Environmental protection is not something the government really does. Long-term care is something that is privatized. We have a law on long-term care, which is actually a law for the privatisation of safe age. We have a social reform that is an attack on the poor and so on. And all these are the reasons why the government of Janez Janša must leave to go to the elections as soon as possible and get a new government. Not just the new government, not just the other government, to get a different government that will reverse these priorities and actually help people instead of treating the country as a trough. To fairly tax the rich, to strengthen the public treasury, to invest in public health, instead of breaking it down, to take care of the elderly, to rehabilitate the environment, to invest in youth and so on. The government of Janez Janša will not do that. All she's capable of is sinking our country for her own pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Replica, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I won't be long. I recognized myself when I obviously upset my fellow Member because I quoted the book that was now created and is, you will not believe, sold out. They're waiting for a lot of copies. The title of the book is Parallel Mechanisms of a Deep State, written by Rado Pezdir. And yes, things have been going on since the transition, why there was a failed transition and how the financial mechanisms were going. Yes, and it concerns you, and that's why I understand your excitement. I'm worried about something else. I see more and more that today some of you actually want to say the following in your debates. The police were cruel, even though the police were attacked. It attacked the citizens and on Slovenian streets it can be broken down, destroyed. And it's likely something has happened that you've lost some kind of project in the sense of an incident. For in Slovenia we hosted the highest representatives of the European Union. And I can see more and more that you're actually angry because the police reacted. You probably wanted the worst to happen. I don't want that in the country. This, fellow Member, when you say that some lie, I have already heard lies in this National Assembly. That doctors are mules, that some people steal, lie, and so on. Today you told the most lies yourself. One is that if the income law is adopted further, it will take people away. No, I'd raise their wages. These are the wages that people would get if the law were to be adopted. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u126	Colleague Bah Gibert, we're at the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u127	And today he has an average salary. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u128	This has nothing to do with the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u129	It's a replica because he talked about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u130	No, no, no. You must tell what you were misunderstood about, no matter what he was talking about. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u131	in this I was misinterpreted that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u132	No, you weren't in on it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u133	No, Mr. President. My friend said we're lying and stealing. I have the right to respond. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u134	What does this poster have to do with what you just picked up?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u135	That he said he was taking this marriage. About that and I don't know why you're bothering me, president. [[…]] I speak calmly, and I don't know why you're upset.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u136	Because [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u137	I answer lies that have been told and untruths. That's all. And I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u138	Look, I'll tell you why I'm bothering you. Because I am in charge of respect for the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure say you can answer if you have been misunderstood in some way. Therefore, at least so much in the minimum part must be followed by this provision of the Rules of Procedure, that someone can tell which part was misunderstood. Not that he responds to any comments from another discusser. That's what I think you're all getting. A colleague of Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! In a year and a half, Slovenia became different. Unfortunately, we are all aware of the seriousness of the invisible enemy Covid-19. Support also in the National Assembly, here in the temple of democracy, in this great assembly was not always self-evident, as indicated also in the initial support of the opposition to Friday's cyclists and throwing also in this great hall, throwing from the face of the protective equipment, unacceptable. When the matter got out of hand and we all saw it, and citizens and citizens also noticed it, you disgracefully withdrew and denied support to Friday's bikers. How different Slovenia is, we see when we visit our adulterous country of the country. Infrastructure projects are being implemented. Kindergartens and elementary schools are being built. Older people will be provided with the necessary homes for older citizens, and young people will be provided with new housing. The opening of new apartments we witnessed a few days ago. Let's, uh, record the lowest unemployment rate in the country a few years ago. As far as our debt is concerned, since Slovenia has committed less, less than the average euro area country or the European Union, we can say that the government coalition, that is, the parties in the National Coalition Assembly, has achieved over-average results with an average debt. If I'm wrong, you can also fix me with numbers. We restored the armies with dignity by a two-thirds majority in this esteemed congregation. And we are aware because we are all aware together, the vast majority is aware of the importance of protecting and defending the country in these difficult, difficult times. [[…]] With the excellent presidency of the Council of the European Union, Slovenia has visited far, far the most foreign statesmen, especially proud of the Western Balkans, which have all from one another, to the last, praised the work of this coalition and praised the way the Presidency is taking place. On the other hand, we can build a mirror on the other side of the KUL opposition in a year and a half, destroying a democratically elected coalition when they did not see or know how to take Slovenia forward. Citizens and citizens will have a choice in regular, regular elections, on the one hand, a development-oriented Slovenia with a vision and knowledge, people who successfully face all the problems facing citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats believe, believe in actions, citizens and citizens attach to us. On the other hand, on the far side we see the inequity of the left block of this esteemed choir with insulting and unworthy outbursts, the downfall of the Left. They can decide for themselves whether this narrow-minded programme is taking Slovenia to the future. Desire to grant the enterprise, desire to dispose of private property, disrespect for the Slovenian Army and a sincere desire to dissolve it, unacceptable, withdrawal from NATO and possibly also the European Union [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The enormous, brutal, unstoppable desire for the power of the opposition rules out and does not bring the bright future of our common country. Citizens and citizens are encouraging me daily to be on the right track. In the face of the worst crisis, the current government coalition immediately helped people and businesses, not banks like any other government. All generations were included in anti-Korona packages, especially pensioners. The Schengen border and the countryside are safer. For the first time, projects are also being implemented outside the rural capitals. People do not fear and support the current government and want to carry out another development project across Slovenia or in the region from which they come. We do not have a worrying situation in Slovenia, but we have a worrying situation in opposition parties. This is not a problem, this, for the first time, is not a problem for citizens and citizens, but for themselves. Their support for violent protests is unacceptable. Injured police officers, with whom I support them, and in mockery. That's embarrassing. Finally, a debate on the future of the European Union took place in Strasbourg a long time ago. How can the opposition worry about the future of Slovenia if not the future of Europe, an empty seat speaks for itself. That is why I also gave all the relevant information with this speech, and that is why I did not support the proposed meeting that we are talking about today on the Committee on Home Affairs. President, thank you for your word and. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u141	Yes, nothing, Mr President, please, if you invite the Member to explain to us, in all the words, why Nova Slovenija is working so fraughtly that after the elections she might be in coalition with the KUL coalition, if everything is so bad on our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u142	Colleague Sukič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u143	Really, I'm really interested in that, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u144	Look, this is not a procedural proposal. Please, please, refrain from these abuses of procedure, no. Does Siter have a word, a motion or a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u145	Procedural, I'm not allowed to answer for the replica yet. Dear President, here we go. I understand that we have an important point on the table, that the debate is important for the whole future of the political floor in the country, so also a reference such as this, and that it is substantively very clearly defined. And it is now perfectly legitimate for anyone in this Chamber to discuss their political position and their vision of the agenda item. However, it is problematic, of course, that in the intervention of Members and Members, there are insinuations and lies and so on, which in this case was quite a bit of fun for the predecessor. I have learned that we are trying to end the Slovenian Army in Levica, and I have learned that we are trying to get out of the European Union. Now I don't know, the next one, I guess, would just be, I don't know, cheering to stop photosynthesis or I don't know, just something. So I invite you, Mr President, to see that lies appear in the debate, and I know that you should not interfere substantively with the debate, but that such a thing should at least stop and put it on the top of the agenda, because otherwise we can really start talking about photosynthesis and get stuck again a thousand times, I don't know, between partisans and patriots, or I don't know what, and we'll be totally unconstructive, but we've got four and a half hours left in the hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u146	Thank you very much, colleague Siter. As you yourself have found, I cannot go into the debate of Members and Members in substance, I cannot determine whether anyone is telling the truth or not, because then I will stand here in the Chief Justice. I'll probably have to turn off some microphones, but this is not the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly. And I hope it never will be. You're free to discuss it. You can argue it one way or another, if you think that it is necessary to argue that a Member's debate is necessary to present the opposite facts, then we have this problem in the National Assembly, that there is no special leverage to raise your hand immediately and say, that is a lie, and so on. Perhaps our predecessors did not choose to do so because they knew that such a meeting would then go on indefinitely. But you can do it in other ways. Look, you have all the Twitter accounts, I know you tweet during the session, you have Facebook accounts, you like to account with each other, and I suggest you state there what someone said was false and present your counter arguments. But don't expect me or the vice presidents to find out what that last truth is. We are not authorized to do this, we have no authority in the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Koprivc, would you like another word? Don't you? Anyone else?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u147	Yes, look, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u148	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u149	I know you're going to warn me again that this isn't procedural, but I think we need to stick to some truth. Or if the members of Parliament express strong insinuations and lies, it should be noted, excuse me. And that Mr Montenegro blamed the opposition for organising and supporting violent protests is unacceptable and must be responded to, Mr President. Because it can't become a lie to the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u150	I told you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u151	You know what? And so I just ask you to warn the debaters not to tell lies and untruths that they have already been warned to be false.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u152	Comrade Koprivc, I told you. I don't have that authority. But it can happen that one of the vice-presidents will come, and he will lead the meeting, and he will intervene very much in your word. But I can't influence him either. But I think that if the debate is free, if we stick to the constitution, then the Member can speak if he is not offensive, what he wants, and I have no right to do so. I don't know who's telling the truth and who's not, it's gonna be the listeners and the listeners themselves who's making an opinion about it. Therefore, please stop interfering, because we will begin – the Vice-President is waiting for me – to give reminders for such business proposals that are not. It's a replica of a fellow savage named Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u153	Thank you, President, for your word. Now, it's hard for a man to listen to a Christian Democrat, how many lies he can tell in one performance. First time, dear Mr. Chernigoy. A brutal desire for the territory of the opposition you said. No, the opposition has a brutal desire for the normality of this country. Because you have a brutal desire for power because you are afraid of early elections. Simple as beans says my mother. Secondly, people support the current government and they're not afraid of it, you said. That's not true. In the polls, nearly 70% of the people said they did not support this government. Thirdly, she was really pearly today. Right now we have a worrying situation in the opposition parties, that's what you said. Really? Where? Have you seen the unity of the opposition today? Apart from Mr Zorčič, the opposition was very, very united and is always very united if you look at the vote. By the way, even in that vote on the Farmadent, where you were apparently defending a multinational in foreign ownership, the opposition was very united. So I politely ask the Christian Democrat not to lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u154	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the replica. I'm sorry. I'm not going to let that happen because there's no replica on the lines of reference. And I suggest we move on. Procedural mag. Reich? Oh, the proponent. Here you go, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too. My friend Montenegro had an interesting discussion. He started talking about invisible enemies. And yet I will remember that in some other times they had enemies, and they persecuted the Gypsies, the Roma, the Slavs, the other thinking, the communists. They've been given hotel accommodations in Auschwitz, haven't they? That's not funny. And when we talk about creating extraordinary situations and when someone says that we have invisible enemies, that we have enemies everywhere, that we have someone who destroys the rule of law, and that says in a way that they see little scravengers from Murgel everywhere, of course they create a state of emergency in the country, and of course that's not good. So, in this way, to intimidate people, by inventing and thus cultivating one psychosis in society, of course, is socially very harmful and this is done by the parties who are today in the coalition of 10, 20 years, so repeat the same mantra, false court, hijacked election, false trial. These are things that are constantly repeating from year to year, so that confidence in state systems is destroyed and that today's authorities continue to repeat and break down the systems that we've created for a long time and also do everything that people are losing confidence in the system and, of course, people are, because of their way of ruling, so we see how the government is taking decisions that are imprudent, how it changes legislation. It has adopted as many as 9 against the Crown laws and, in fact, it represents an effective work, but these are so imprecise that it is not possible not to examine them, not to learn to implement them and the unjust at all understand what they are bringing, and we will see these consequences as soon as possible and when you speak, indeed, about the bank hole, people know that the debts incurred in 2004, 2008, when the Government directly appointed the Presidents of the Bank's administrations and when these holes have arisen, it was “need to pay” and today the story is repeated and they also know that these debts created by this Government will be “need to pay” and fear this question, because the head hurts, and so much more so if you have not created it if you have to pay foreign queries. And I've already told you this at the previous meeting of your mother's working body, and I'm telling you this again today, and I'll do it again tomorrow if you're on the Finance Committee. As far as all emergency situations are concerned, I would like the government not to provoke people with this kind of communication, and what I have told you many times is what the government is doing purposefully to provoke people. So, reporting at ten o'clock in the evening, by adopting, changing the rules from today to tomorrow and of course, these are things that irritate people and such restrictions, which are illogical, which are handicrafted and which provoke people, of course, cause a very, very large amount of distress among people and this, this needs to be made clear and this government does not work randomly, but intentionally and does so solely with the aim of homogenising its electoral base, its good 30% of the elective body, while 70% of the other citizens and citizens are very revolutionary. And these processes are being done purposefully and, of course, I cannot support such a state of mind in the country and such a state of mind, and that is why we have this extraordinary meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The replica's from Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u157	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have to strongly replicate my colleague Andrei Reich here because, if I am not mistaken when I started my opening speech, he was not in the hall, and he probably did not understand or misunderstood my introduction. I will say again, and I will, some of you may write something down, because I will say, in which context I have used the word connection of an invisible enemy, which I still use in my discussions and will repeat, quote myself: “Unfortunately, we are not all aware of the seriousness of the invisible enemy, Covid-19.” It is said, I hope that here we all agree that Covid-19 is an enemy, a kind of us humans and that on the other hand he is invisible. That's what an invisible enemy stacks in the context of Covid-19. Your further discussion with my words has no connection and here you have taken my words from the context and deliberately or intentionally developed them in the wrong direction. As far as the debt and the bank are concerned. I'm always saying it, and I'm going to repeat it again, because he sees that you've misunderstood me again. [[Incomprehensible]] In the face of the worst crisis, the current government immediately helped people and businesses, not banks like any other government. We speak to ourselves, citizens attach this to us, data on unemployment and economic growth as well. So that we here seem conceptually to have sinned completely and it is right to correct you as a colleague. President, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The replicas on the replica aren't the only ones if you want to be a proponent? Here you go as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u159	Look, if someone creates a debt and then they pretend they didn't create it and they don't have to pay it, then it's a shame about a man like that and it's a policy to even discuss it. When debt is created, debt has to be paid. We paid people the debt that was incurred in 2004-2008. At the time the first Janševa government was in the government and Nova Slovenija had a finance minister, she was a government party and, of course, has a responsibility. The then government, when it created debt, did not help the economy, but did it very much damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Replica, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u161	Yes, thank you very much. Very fast. These are interest on the government's debt. Take a look at 2008-2009 after Janša's government was here. Look at your government, it's here and look at today. Stop fooling people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u162	There's no replica to the replica. The only master you want as a candidate, I'll give you my word. As a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u163	Slovenia owed its most dearly to the government of Janša first and second, and these are the official data of the Ministry of Finance, most dearly owed. The fact is that other governments could be indebted even cheaper if you did not go abroad and explain to people that Slovenia should not lend money. So in the most difficult times for Slovenia, your customer in the most difficult times for Slovenia went abroad and explained to the lenders that Slovenia should not lend money.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Monika Gregorčič has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Good evening to all who are still following this meeting. Unfortunately, this is a fruitless debate tonight. I would rather have the opposition present today at the previous meeting this afternoon when we took very useful measures and laws for people, but there they would rather withdraw in their powerlessness, obstruct the vote, and that was also their expression of powerlessness. A special expression of political weakness is today's agenda and the recommendations proposed by the so-called “cool” coalition. It's some kind of political pamphlet, some really bad quality scribe. The recommendations are literally pathetic and ridiculous, and they reflect the political impotence again. And after the six unsuccessful interpolations that this KUL coalition has already tabled and have failed, the government's constructive mistrust has failed, and the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister has failed. Now, after all these fiascos, I would somehow imagine that you would honorably acknowledge defeat and wait for regular elections, and prepare well substantively, prepare a good programming platform so that you can speak with them in a credible manner to potential voters. At the very least, I would have thought that in this way you would beg and now ask the ruling coalition, the government to withdraw from itself and voluntarily hand over to you the authority that you in fact let go of your own hands. Even the Legal and Legal Service has warned in its opinion on this pamphlet that it goes beyond or that you have no authority to call other institutions, as it were said, to do so, an interpolation, a constructive non-trust, but that you have already burned it simply unsuccessfully, but you cannot accept it, and this early election leaves you with such an unfulfilled dream obviously. Now why do you think you're the only one in power? Because you started to demolish this coalition before it actually formed or started working during the global pandemic. I'm going to say one thing that's actually interesting. I don't know if it's already been made public, but when we approached some state-of-the-art behavior and started talking to the SMC about the emergence of a new government coalition, but then some of the members of the KUL coalition today knocked on our doors and basically talked to us, put together this new coalition, both in fear of the epidemic and because of the unannounced early elections and political calculations. And they said some of them, because we'd go with them, but we can't. So much for this political reality. It is important to be aware of the situation in which this government has been created and of the emergency situations it has always been in. Unfortunately, with all the prey under her feet, which the current opposition constantly creates, you are dangerously free from passion, you are fueling intolerance, you are also using hate speech. If you are not directly here in Parliament, then in some indirect way, when you are also dealing with some of your fellow Members with traitors, quizzings or those who are sympathetic to some fascist regime, anti-Semitism. You know, with all this, respected colleagues from the KUL Coalition, you also legitimize death threats and rhetoric as well as these written shipments not least with bullets. And that's not constructive, not even in these epidemic situations. Perhaps only because the main observation in this document, which we are considering today, is the excessive use of force at the October 5th protests. I will remind you, 5 October was a very important international event within the Slovenian Presidency. It was the top of the EU's Western Balkans. And I'm asking everyone here whether you can say that it was a peaceful gathering, that it was basically a peaceful protest, expressing some negative position, whether the protest was declared, whether the famous organisers, were involved with the police in that segment of ensuring public order and peace. I think the answer to all this one is so determined not that none of this has been fulfilled. And what happened then was that the streets were blocked, that the Ljubljanaians were essentially, and those who go to Ljubljana on a daily basis were blocked, could not from work, to their children at school or to various activities. I mean, you've disabled the city's functioning. And don't think that the Ljubljanaers have welcomed this with some approval. So I believe you'll also get your bill in the elections. But as for the police's response, there's evidence that there's been an excessive use of force and chemical weapons. It's a real word manipulation. You need to know, the police are a repressive body. The order is an order, and if a mother brings irresponsibly to some such protest that they are known to be violent, children, or father, if she brings them, but not now that I will not be accused of any chauvinistic speech, you know, it is his responsibility to expose children to such danger. And if he doesn't back off on police orders, then, then follow, yes, some reaction, consequence, so that's the parent's responsibility, not the police. I'd like to point out one more thing. Dr. Vatovec was once again a proponent of the SMC. About us betraying our constituents, and that we cooperated, and that we cooperated with the party that we said before the elections that we would never go into coalition with her. I say it clearly and loudly here, as my colleague said last time on the board. I didn't give anyone the authority to exclude anyone on my behalf and tell them that I wouldn't cooperate with anyone. I'll take this one, my rights, my constitutional right to decide on my conscience, I won't take it, and I'll never take it. So please, about the SMC no longer in terms of quizzes, clean up before your threshold, people are really not as stupid as Dr. Vatovec said, see the divisive policy of KUL, see the inappropriate rhetoric. And if not before, you'll get your election bill for that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pashovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u167	Yeah, we need to respond, no. You have nettles in your species. You can't read us some communication instruments that you're using yourself. I sign every single thing I mention. As for the coalition, past, present or future. On 12 January 2020, the current Prime Minister tweeted, and the coalition was a political body that cooled down and thought of us. So, you've already fucking talked before the resignation of the former prime minister, not just talking, you've agreed on what the new coalition would look like. Only you didn't want to know about it or you didn't know because you were a little too low.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word has Vojko Starović, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, chairman. There is no doubt that today is a difficult darkness ahead of us. The country's perceptions and leadership in this country, the way this country is run, and this government is difficult. I would say that running the country is undoubtedly a very responsible task and is certainly not easy. Today, when I was driving to Parliament, on the road, I was listening to the show of Responsibility. It's very interesting what people say, random when they asked them. They talked mainly about irresponsibility, and it is responsible for you to acknowledge your irresponsible, unjust answers. I don't think that's what this is about. Responsibilities by definition, by definition, means creating appropriate answers to the situations that life puts before us. The appropriate response of the State to the challenges posed by all apparatus with the Ministry, with the institutions, is to use appropriate measures, means of communication. The appropriate powers that you can make with laws and decrees, and that is what we can find out in this situation, we are once again the most red zone, again intelligently, the unrest is on the road, we can see that probably these answers when this government sought were not the most appropriate. They have not been adapted and have often been worse than the comparative countries to which we compare. I'd just like to warn you about something. I would point out that perhaps today is under-emphasized, that all the time there is talk on the side, the government side, it is right to defend the government, because you are an integral part, but what this government has done is good for people. What this government has done, and this government is also crediting itself with 6% growth in gross social product, which is nice, but we forget that it has fallen before, and that this growth is done by entrepreneurs, by workers, by employees, by those who work. I know, I used to work in the economy, and you have to find the right answers to all the challenges. It's a responsibility. To find the right answers to the challenges, and I would agree with the Member of Parliament when she said that we can do this in Slovenia. That's all people can do, and we, what I know, we don't respect them, we treat them like they're little, we're kids, we teach them brains, we threaten them, we chase them, we say they don't apply or they move out or that, third, that's not how it works. [[Incomprehensible]] That's irresponsible. And it is irresponsible for me, too, to go to the point of irresponsibility now, to communicate in a way and to work through the institutions of change, ways and institutions in fact to put into a bad light, even in a bad light to do the police, who have their legitimate legal duties, to take care of peace and order, to have, to have, to have, to the point, the fact is absolutely straight ahead, but for the excessive use of force, we can ask ourselves, because we are living in a democratic state and it is right that the opposition warns of such things as are happening. And now that we are boasting about how well this government is doing, if I look at the budget, the 2020 budget balance. That's half the budget we've had before. Almost half. The net debt in 2020 was 5 billion 237. See, the budget that is ready for this year is not yet rebalanced, is neither repaired nor nothing, foresees a 2.5 billion budget hole and a net debt again this year of 3 billion. If I add it up, we're going to 10 billion. And people of God, I wouldn't have hoped to do that, to be so indebted. How are we gonna get out of this? And you know why the social gross product is growing? Maybe the president will know about it because he's from the coast. You know who the main buyers of holiday apartments are on the beach today, it's come to life, because they're selling things, gross social product, from this money that we owe ourselves, we've paid almost a billion extras, now there's data that some people got another 81 grand, with this money buying people holiday apartments, and that's why we have economic growth. But we have the same economic growth as in 2004, 2008, as we mentioned today, when the 17 billion-indebted economic race went to Slovenia's total debt of 43 billion, somehow managed to keep it at the same level over the coming years. That's not true. Such indebtedness is totally unrealistic and threatening for our sovereignty. I'm serious, because then the aliens will be sent back to their homes. Now that we're talking about interest, what, yes, all over the world, there are negative interest rates now. Now there's helicopter money, it's called, the central bank is this, they've released everywhere, including the Federal Reserve in America with a dollar. Because now it's the fact that it's cheap money. Just tomorrow, if we don't get it back, we're gonna have to borrow it back, but already there are predictions of how the interest will grow. I have a feeling that this is really irresponsible over-indebtedness. In 1918, 1919, we had for the first time after huge years the positive fact that we kept some money to reduce this debt and this dependence. Let's think about it, and it seems to me that it's very irresponsible to be in debt, not to think about how much we're going to be in any perspective, there's no clarity as to how much we're going to be in this business of the next governments, we don't care – someone can say easily, as some people hear, but it's not that. That is why I think that today's meeting is entirely in place to discuss the responsibility of this government and where we are going, and this lack of confidence. Untrust among people, our institutions are collapsing. This will have to be corrected, but on a democratic path, not a violent one. And once again, I'm going to point out something, we didn't organize anything, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't support violent protests. We're absolutely against it. We're for protests, not violent protests. And not to ascribe this to us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The word is "Jura Ferrjan" and "Rudia Medved" is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u171	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear guests, honourable Members, and all those who accompany us! Good evening! Since usually the words of those who speak much or say the most about themselves, I have decided to start today's debate by quoting some of the main actors, the proponents, those who requested the conclusion of today's meeting. But it's about quoting that we'll be better able to identify ourselves from the time that the former Prime Minister of the government, Marjan Sarec, resigned. I quote, Marjan Šarec: "With 13 Members and this coalition and the situation in the State Council of People's Expectations I cannot meet this moment." End of quote. The next quote, respected and respected, will be Mr. Dejan Jidan's reply, then the president of the Social Democrats, the journalist asked him: When did you find out about the resignation? So, I quote Mr. Dejan Jedian: "Today. As usual, the partners were not informed. We were informed through the media.” End of quote. The next quote will be a quote from the Party President Alenka Bratusek, Mrs Alenka Bratusek. She said: “It’s true that there are areas where we haven’t actually done much or almost nothing. And that's the real field of health. Šarec has chosen a politically unstable path of early elections, which will not actually help people." End of quote. And also the last quote, respected and respected, in this context by the President of the Left, the pardon of the coordinator of the Left, Mr Luke Mesac. I quote: “This coalition no longer made any sense. She only dealt with each other's grinding and human resources shopping. This coalition has collapsed on its own." End of quote. Respected and respected! This is an alarming situation in a country that ruled more than a year and a half ago. This was a sign of a political crisis in the Republic of Slovenia when you had no idea there was an epidemic, a pandemic. You will now share the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia with Pav KUL advice on communication. Really, you? One time we'd have an early election, one time we wouldn't have an early election, one time we'd have this, the other time, let's make a deal first. In the end, it's probably just about ruling, how it doesn't matter, just to rule. Today, however, we have a difficult situation in our country, with respect and respect. The COPID-19 pandemic and, of course, the consequences of this crown crisis. And you in KUL, as you call yourself, have been, in fact, for a year and a half in a way or another, trying to make things worse, to somehow create an emergency situation in our country, to throw away the government and, what I said earlier, to regain power. And the other thing is, it doesn't matter. And today we were talking about protests. This impatience, this inexorable hatred began here in the National Assembly. Remember the debates, the labels you bring to the table every now and then. Then, on the street, things escalated, and they didn't just threaten politicians anymore, and now they're threatening cops, journalists, health workers. Things got out clearly out of control. And look, violence is for me. To justify throwing granite dice, spitting, death threats, threats, no matter how you try to relativize this matter or justify it, violence is still violence. And here to evaluate, for the intervention, today we heard about the protests. See, Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is very clear. The first paragraph states that the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is guaranteed. Steady. And the fact is, I think we can all agree that at a time when protests turn into violence, it is not a defender of democracy, but an attack on democracy. An attack on democracy. And the third paragraph of Article 42 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to collect and merge, states that the legal restrictions on these rights are permissible if the security of the State or public safety or protection against the spread of communicable diseases so requires. By the fact that your meetings, respected and respected, which you have attended among others, I do not mean to mention, are undeclared, so they are illegal, so they are not in conformity with the Constitution. And by the way, these meetings have cost our taxpayers and taxpayers, our citizens and citizens about a million euros, just as far as protection is concerned. If the data is updated or even higher, I will probably be corrected by the Ministry. These are pictures of you somehow giving birth to these protests, taking part in them. Of course, I am not saying that you must not participate in the protests, but that is your free will, but let us ask ourselves what message you are giving to citizens. You go to illegal, illegal protests, you violate government measures and so on, and that in itself says a lot. And these are the peace-loving protests, the protests where they operate on the death that they're threatening, they're threatening, they're probably not all having the same poster printed at home, are they? Is this a peaceful protest? Is this a peaceful protest, respected and respected? Let's just stop pretending, okay? You can't compare reported protests that are peaceful, have some messages, with such protests that destroy, break, spit, threaten, throw granite cubes. You can't do this. And, with respect and respect, the fact is that, at least indirectly, what is happening this week, when it threatens the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers of this government, including Members and Members, even the entire parliamentary groups of this National Assembly, can be an indirect response to what began in this National Assembly when you began to hate. Meanwhile, with respect and respect, this government is led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and John Janša's work. This is borne out by concrete data, including data from international institutions. 8 and 9 anti-korona packages were adopted at that time and, according to the assessment of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia, over €4.7 billion was allocated directly to the population and the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. Today's data, respected and respected, the value of net household assets in Slovenia was highest in history at the end of 2020, according to SURS data, i.e. the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Compared to 2019, it was higher by €5.2 billion. These are concrete data that speaks of the work of the Government. This is specific information. The high economic growth that international institutions are also forecasting us in addition to our home Umar. 6.1 in this year, 4.7 in 2022 and 3.3% of GDP in 2023. In doing so, I can say that it is clear in the budget documents, which are development-oriented, that in 2022 we will invest €2.29 billion and €2.23 billion in 2023. Take a look at the budgets and how much for the investments it was for when you were in power “choppers”. The next indicator is low unemployment. Slovenia has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the EU. According to Eurostat data from the beginning of this month, we have a 3.9% unemployment rate on the EU average of 6.8%. From the crown of the packages, this government has saved over 300,000 jobs. Investments in health care over 2 billion in the next 10 years for premises, equipment, for personnel. This responds to the problems that the current crisis has shown and to some of the wider long-term problems that have also occurred in the past. For investments in kindergartens and primary schools, this government is spending 114 million euros. I am pleased that the Municipality of Tržič will also receive €2.3 million for the Curriculum and Sports Centre of the Cross. The next important thing is that this government is concerned with the importance of the local environment and the balanced development of Slovenia is to raise the average of Slovenian municipalities. In 2019 the average was EUR 589 and 11 cents. The year 2020, which was a major pain of a difficult year, rose by almost €35. It also rose to EUR 628.20 in 2021, a good EUR 39 more than in 2019 when the Sharčev government was in power. In 2022 and 2023, the averages will increase rapidly. Compared to this year's year, the average of 16.8 euros will be higher, compared with the Sharčev government by almost 56 euros higher and an additional 2 euros up to 647 euros in 23 years. More money for Slovenian municipalities is more money for investments, for people and a higher standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, before I conclude my debate, allow me to touch some of the interventions in response to what you have discussed today. I've been talking about protests before. Now, as far as human rights talk is concerned, we've heard how you're in the SD bumper today. Of course, you are a defender when it comes to human rights for those who agree with you, but when human rights are violated for those who disagree with you, you are very quiet no matter how loud you speak in the microphone and no matter how much you feel about it. Your signs and responses only indicate that the truth is hurting you. One more thing. I don't know how you all picture together, but we have heard from the LMŠ today that the whole government should be sitting here today, but this is what the Member of the List of Marjan Šarca said when a third or a quarter of the members of their group were sitting in this National Assembly that moment, and I'm not going to say how many of them are in this National Assembly right now, but just like the response, because I'm very reluctant to say how many of them are here because they can follow the matter of course also from the office. And the fourth intervention is about a bank hole. My colleague Reich said a few words about this. I will not be here for long, because tomorrow we will probably have a lot of time on the Finance Committee and we will be able to fully discuss this biggest financial fiasco in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, which was afforded by the then government under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek. I'll add this. High interest rates were then significantly higher than they are today. And if we look at interest or expenditure to service the debt of the state budget in 2020, it amounted to 1.7 per cent of GDP, nominally 300 million less than in 2014, when they amounted to 2.9 per cent of gross domestic product. Of course, it must also be said that this government has given money to people and to the Slovenian economy, and the government of Alenka Bratušek to banks and elites, but more about it tomorrow. Respected and respected, since my opening part of the debate has been somewhat more of a KUL, let me also conclude my debate with KUL shades. Now, in the light of experience, at least Mrs Alenka Bratusek and Mr Marjan Šarc, a person would expect you to know that if the current Prime Minister resigns, this does not necessarily mean early elections. Was this lesson the target of the rifle into the corn completely unscientific? So let's stop this, and with this public, you want an early election. Mr Marjan was Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka was Prime Minister, and they did not turn out to be deaf. I don't think you need to be some genius to figure out that Mrs. Tanji isn't nearly there to come from a European salary for three times her salary in Slovenia. It is true, however, that its client colleague and also the vice-president of this party are likely to have a great deal to go from Slovenia to at least three times the European salary if that were to happen. And, of course, it is also more clear how bitterly Mr Matjaž lied and attacked this government today in his debate. Well, with respect and respect, I won't let go of the head of this KUL Society, Mr Luke, who, in fact, at the first ball with his discussions, may be very attractive. Sadly, though, he lives in the wrong century. With his head in socialism, with his hands and feet completely in capitalism. Smart phone, private health and so on. And there's nothing wrong with not misinterpreting me, just, you know, saying one thing, working, living something else entirely. But we're used to it by socialists anyway. You say you'll cooperate. We saw in the introduction to my debate what this looks like in practice. Now you have decided to cooperate on the basis of excluding those who do not think as you do. Now, as you have matured, you have shown yourself today, when we voted on the Long-Term Care Act, which touches all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which brings the third life span for each of us, regardless of where he lives, regardless of what social standard he has, to be safe, peaceful and dignified. And you showed the same thing when we voted today on the law or the amendment of the Income Act, when you fled and showed very clearly what your position was. You are against the fact that, by 2025, with a gradual rise in general relief, i.e. by lower taxation of work, with lower taxes of wages, any individual in Slovenia who works and creates, respected and respected will receive an additional salary at the annual level. It's so simple. And neither can Mrs Lidija Jerkič explain that, nor can you explain it. So, look, you don't have a program either, no, not yet. So, maybe it'll be December soon, maybe you'll write to the good men, and they'll bring it to you. Let's face it, you'll never be John Janša, even though some of you may even dream of him. You know, three times to run the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not everyone can preside over the Council of the European Union twice. Face it. I know. I know you will not get over it, but I hope that you will accept it at least, and if not sooner after the next national elections, which will be regular, and when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will again, for the fourth time, form Janez Janša, you will want to participate in the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for the good of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich, a replica or as a proponent? Replica, mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u173	My friend Ferjan must have misunderstood me. We are proud never to be like John Janša. We are proud that our governments do not adopt laws for which no financial resources are known. We're proud not to lie to people. We are proud not to adopt laws with unknown resources. We're proud of not giving money to a tycoon. We're proud that we didn't create the debt, but that we had to pay your debt, and we still have a headache. And we're proud not to be deceiving each other. And we are proud that we are responsible and that we know public finances and that we care about the future of Slovenia. We are proud not to lie or deceive. But you know, you have to make that clear. And we have experience, and we have knowledge, and we know what happens when someone spends money and doesn't feel like they've spent it. This is why we still have a headache today, and also because of the way money is being used now, we are talking about €10 billion in a new debt in 2 years, and we will have a headache in the future. And to say that we have economic growth based solely on debt, and this is a success, this is swindling, this is unfair, this is irresponsible. And I warn and repeat again, because of the public finances that have been destroyed, because of the unaccepted budget rebalancing, because we don't know what the new budgets will be, because we don't know what the state of public finances is – we know it's bad, and that's what the fiscal world is alerting us to and, I'll say, the Bank of Slovenia that there are risks – these are the challenges that await us. These challenges will have to be addressed. And also when we're talking about debt costs, these are data from the Ministry of Finance. Talks, these are data on the synthetic euro interest rate after the currency exchange [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And, of course, we see who is most in debt at the highest interest rate, this is the Government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Franz Kangler, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ambassador, Mr. Reich challenged me when he started talking about someone getting a headache. You know, you've been reading to this government that it's spending money. The big difference between the previous government and this government, and also the one that was led by your president. But don't you have a headache when you fixed the banks and invested too much money in the banks? You're coming from Maribor, a respected colleague, a bank in Maribor, a new bailout bank is the government, the government has invested [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The government has invested 8 [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u176	Respected [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u177	The government has invested 800 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u178	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, just a moment. Mr Reich, I warn you, you do not violate Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure when you are interfering with a person's word when he speaks. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u179	The government invested 800 million and later sold the bank next year for 240. What's the difference? This government, which has solved problems and has opposed Covid, has given money to people, to the economy, to tourism. And economic growth is the growth that has been observed that the government has properly invested money. And the lowest unemployment rate in the history of Slovenia is 3.9%, reflecting the rapid and effective functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which unfortunately is led by Janez Janša. The former government has not been able to draw on all European funds. Ask Minister Chernač or Secretary of State Monika Kirbiš, what was the problem and how much money we have won in this government in Europe for the rehabilitation of Covid and the economy and so on how many billion. We're talking about billions, honourable Member. But when you heard in the KUL coalition, because it wasn't cool for you because this government brought billions into Slovenia, it was a great pain for you. And today, when I answer to you on behalf of the government, not as Secretary of State, you attack me and you yell at me. I don't mean to drool at you, but I have a right on behalf of the Government to answer you why the government won't have a headache, because this government has invested money and given it to people to survive, to keep jobs, to have jobs, and that's why I, a lot of people, won't have a headache, because I'm glad that Slovenian people have jobs, has jobs, 3.9, that's painful for you, that's what Janez Janš invented, that's not what anyone in the coalition invented, this percentage, but it's the international organization of the OECD found that unemployment in Slovenia is only 3.9% of people. Yeah, I know it's painful for the coalition and we don't rule out, this government doesn't rule out, this government connects and unites. And if I answer you, to the exclusion, just look at what happened today in the National Assembly, what attacks you carried out on the President of the National Assembly, because he remained responsible and conscientiously in the National Assembly and voted on all the laws necessary for this country. Why did you all attack him? Isn't it true? Have you seen what some Members have written? 12.45, look at this, Marjana Sharca. Look at the Twitter left. [[advertising from the hall]] Look at this. Look at Mrs. Fajon's tweet. [[…]] You all considered him traitors because man is responsible for his work and in this way you exclude your people because they are responsible for the National Assembly and for the people. You showed that today. I'm sorry. That's not what I'm making up. Why did you attack him, President of the National Assembly, if he's your president? And when you say that Janez Janša tweets, look at the Cool coalition, how you tweeted and considered him a traitor and so on. Why is that? Isn't that an hate speech to treat your colleague from the Cool Coalition or your supporter so much that it's true sadness? And I answer you, to all those who spoke of the tweeting of John Janša. But first, you have to put it in front of your threshold, because you're exactly the same, when you're tweeting, when you're tweeting, and the content is different, and the content is different. You rule out, we connect, and we merge. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u181	Mr Vice-President, I ask you and call for you to protect the integrity of the National Assembly and the Member States, and especially if the Secretary of State, who is invited and guest here, violates the rules and purposes of his presence. So, this is your task, and that is why you have gained the confidence of us Members, and if you are unable to do so, then please step down and leave the job to someone who is worthy of this trust. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that you have no headaches, but it hurts all those who are indebted, banking, had to pay, and I was also relieved, my share was all at once worth no euro, because in 2004-2008, the government, by the domestic tycoon, was lending loans and was already negative at the time the value of the Maribor credit bank, so it was worth minus 100 euros and once again, the respected Secretary of State, the debts that were incurred then, paid by the Slovenian people, because otherwise these banks would go bankrupt, people would stay in banks without savings. Those who had credits should return them in a hypnotic manner, and so the business we witnessed at the time reminds us of what might happen in the future, because today's business of the Slovenian Government is the same. And these debts that are being created today, these obligations that are being received today, on the basis of unknown resources, of course, is this misdirection, and if we are talking about it, then it must be made clear that if someone promises something to be done to someone, and adopts laws without a legal basis, so laws without financial coverage, it is like writing a check without coverage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u182	Your Honor. First of all, the government's representative, Secretary of State Kangler, answered the question. Secondly, you certainly are not the one who will judge and insult someone who is capable or incapable. So I ask you politely to stop generalizing and hateful speech and to give a label in one way or another. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I wanted a procedural proposal. That's partly what you've done. I wanted him to warn Ambassador Reich not to be offended. I'm talking about fellow Members here, not myself. The fact that you have offended the Vice-President in such a way that he is not able to hold a meeting is rude and unworthy of the work of the Member. Even if you don't know the rules of procedure. Because it is a fact that a government representative can advertise in the procedure or during the discussion as a proposaler, as you can. And you were talking about things that aren't even the subject of this pamphlet of yours. And the government representative has every opportunity to answer. And one more thing. Don't be a fool. Do you know what you said today? That economic growth is linked or dependent on debt. Well, give it a rest. It is true, however, that due to the debt we have committed to citizens and citizens, businesses are the result here in order to be able to act in the most difficult times. Packages, etc. You attacked the PKP, but here are the results. Economic growth is the result of proper government decisions, because the government is the one that provides a good, positive economic environment in the country, and that is what this government is doing. But you were making money at private banks, and you were making money to those who never returned it. And they didn't go for the bolts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, for complementing my answer to Mr Reich. You want to be a proponent? Here you go. Mag. Andrej Reich as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u185	Dear Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert. So I didn't give anyone any money. It is, however, the fact that these poufs were created in 2004-2008. We are talking about five billion euros – Bell 1, Bell 2, T-2, various church holding and friends. We saw one video of how this was happening. And so these poofs were not created by us, but by the then government, which directly managed the banks. And he owes you, that money went to the tycoon, he went there. And I ask that when you talk about where he went to give the money, whether you gave it to the residents, tell him you gave it to the tycoons.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jure Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I didn't mean to talk about these things today because we actually have tomorrow on the Committee on Finance you had time to say all this. But look, it's a little bit like that when you say things like that. Look, Alenka Bratušek has been a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Credit Maribor since 2009-2011. Before that, she was at the Ministry of Finance. So if everyone is responsible, then your president, Alenka Bratusek, is responsible. So let's stop fooling around with citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u188	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Unless you want to be a proponent. Here you go. Mag. Andrej Reich as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u189	So, Comrade Ferjan, if you said that she was a member of the Supervisory Board in 2009-2011, then the bank hole was created in 2004-2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word has Rudy Bear, only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I would not have responded to this harsh exchange of views this afternoon and all evening, so I mentioned at the outset that my debate would be more or less boring. Because I wanted to stick to a topic that apparently isn't really in the mood to talk. However, I must respond in particular to the conclusion that, of course, the Secretary of State has every right to answer the questions raised to him, but I do not recall anyone asking him how he comments on the reaction of political parties to today's event in the National Assembly. I don't remember that. Or is it? Or I overheard. But this is how he acts as a political commentator, I don't know, on Novi 24, and clafts everyone around him, shares science and completely attacks the opposition. And all the time. That's all the time. From 14 o'clock on. As of course, this debate is going on as well. And Mr. Secretary of State, I believe you when you say the government won't have a headache. No, that government doesn't have a headache. Of course, the future government will have a headache, and there will be a number of future governments just because of the government's actions. Mr Ferrjan has deepened into the profiling of the individual party, the individual leader of the opposition's parties. I'm not going to respond to his comments, but it's what he was quoting about Marjano Sharz, of course it's true, because he really said it, no, yes. Why did he give up? Because the government didn't have a majority. And when you find out that the government doesn't have a majority, you don't wake up in the parliamentary halls and pull MPs by the sleeves, by the hairs, and who knows what else to bring them into the hall and somehow secure their survival. He didn't do it, and he gave up. Logically, perfectly natural, natural decision. And one more thing. An unannounced meeting is not an illegal meeting. That's it, I mean once and for all. The undeclared meeting is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm talking about an unannounced meeting. I'm not talking about what happened at the meeting. Then there was violence. But people need to be told and not deceived. The undeclared meeting is not inconsistent with Slovenian legislation. And this constant sloppiness of what you've given the citizens. And the listing, the continuous listing, including the average. Yeah, sure, 'cause if you get cocky, you can split it up. But you forget, when you were in the opposition, you put to the Constitutional Court the budget of the government of Marjan Šarc, who had a surplus. So you put him in the Constitutional Court. Of course, now that the fiscal rule is not in force or regardless of the fact that the Fiscal Council is giving you more and more notice about what you are doing with public finances, we are now giving you. And the debate on the worrying situation in the country is completely legitimate and I do not agree with the Secretary of State that this is an undemocratic way of overthrowing the government. What is here, I ask the Secretary of State, undemocratic if we open a debate on the current situation in the country. In our opinion, this one is such that it demands that we cut and allow the citizens to vote. What's undemocratic here? What did someone today do undemocratic? And at the same time, of course, you accuse us in opposition that we are almost throwing granite cubes. Have we brought any granite cubes to Parliament today? Why is such a debate undemocratic to the overthrow of the government? I am not surprised, however, that the coalition, together with the government, does not see these disturbing conditions in the country. It shut itself down in some bubble of complacency and all that went wrong, of course, everything that went wrong, but not enough of it, but for all it is the opposition's fault and of course not to mention further. The Prime Minister usually publishes the entire list of these culprits that everything is hard to remember. But it's all the opposition's fault. And from here today comes a single attack, an attack, an attack on the opposition, literally demonizing the opposition. This is happening from 2 p.m. to the end and, of course, this is actually happening for a year and a half. Everything that goes wrong is the opposition's fault. And don't put yourself in the first place in a successful fight against the epidemic. In this situation, with the situation we have since the outbreak in Slovenia, that someone hopes to talk about a successful fight against the epidemic, or we live in another world. And we keep listening to that. We're saving you. Please don't save us that much. Look at the situation. And where is one of the main problems of bringing the country as far as you have? Up to here, said someone, yeah, of course up to here. So far away, we were just before you introduced a verbal delinquency in this country. Thank God the National Assembly has gained so much common sense that we have prevented it. But the problem is that this government, no one in this government ever takes responsibility for anything. So, no one is ever guilty of anything, and on the list, you always list someone outside that bubble of yours who's responsible for everything that's going on. The standards of taking responsibility were once, not so long ago, but in this country, you must have forgotten. In the previous government, the Environment Minister resigned as soon as criminal investigation into him began. Minister Bandelli has resigned because of unworthy communication. Yes, if you were to resign from your government because of indecent communication, you should, in fact, give up almost everyone long ago. Minister Prešiček resigned due to the transport of the instrument. Today, all these concessions seem bizarre. And even more bizarre is the title of one of the media from two years ago, from a good year and a half ago, what was the new attitude of Slovenian politics then for Slovenian space, and the title, stole a sandwich and resigned. This was the bottom of Slovenian politics at the time, and this was the bottom of Slovenian politics when I gave you a list of which one of the ministers resigned. What do we have then, I ask you, what do we have here today? What do we have today? So, bottoms. The day is gone. I guess the bottom's gone. We have a minister in a court of law, but a justice minister, a justice minister in a court of law. Well, no. So what, I'd say the president of the state. A minister who, in fact, could only see from within a court of justice, obviously, but not. Nothing happened to him in this government and, of course, he didn't show any need to give up. We have an environmental minister who won not only an earring, but a pair of slaps, so badly lost at the referendum on the Water Act, which he so scrupulously defended. In any normal country, such a minister would resign, even in Zimbabwe, which is repeatedly given by the President of the Government for comparison. Even in Zimbabwe, I'd give up. And he was trapped now in some earpieces or whatever it was, and even if it was a glue, because we don't know what it was, but that she would be such a glue, that each word would be specially glued to artililuate that it's stupid to pay taxes, and I don't believe it either, look, I don't believe it either. But it's all right. Nothing. The mob's after him. The mob's after him. We have a health minister who's been sworn in all the time and he's been calling all of us, trust me, trust the profession. Yeah, well, he's the one who hit the waist. He's the one who got hit by a profession and now they're running this case around this Janssen vaccine, so anyway, nobody knows what happened at the time, what wasn't there, what was administrative, what was professional, what he was doing, what he was doing, and with this thing around Janssen, it caused people's extra mistrust, I'm not going to say vaccination, I'm not going to say, but even into the government's action to fight the epidemic. And look at the dates when this was happening and when the interest in vaccination had dropped completely, which is sad. It is sad that this government did not overcome the strategic breakthrough, convincing citizens to vaccine themselves, but gave in to the fact that, in the end, the anti-vaccinators voted all together and who were the proponents of conspiracy theories. This is where the government failed the exam, and don't say the opposition is guilty again. That the opposition is guilty again. When did the opposition call people not to be vaccinated? Never. We have repeatedly stressed how important it is to be vaccinated, and, finally, we have been vaccinated, including Members. Who's to blame? Who's to blame? And why, when the situation is already going down, people don't know how to convince themselves to do it anymore, why it's necessary to do it on a Sunday, on a quiet Sunday, why then the President of the Government has to write down and talk everything around him, of course, that the day before, no one's been vaccinated and lying on the top. And lie to the top, and in this powerful lie, turn the blame back on the coalition. "Cool" as you always call it, we're not called into anything. The “cool” coalition is not the official name of the four parties we have signed the agreement. However, the Supreme Court of Justice and the Information Commissioner 24ur.com RTV Slovenia are all at risk of health. We're all endangering our health because this government couldn't get people to be vaccinated. She didn't know how to convince. For the vaccination coordinator or whatever it is, I think the campaign is run by this one. I haven't seen one of his records where people would motivate him to vaccinate, but I've seen all of his clients on average, and this particular medium would be fine-tuned there and I'd edit these broadcasts a little bit. Yes, he was not only involved in the promotion of vaccination, but only with the promotion of vaccination, and then we are surprised to think that we have a preoccupation of what we have, and that is an original sin. This is an original sin, a failed completely failed vaccination strategy, and nothing shows that you will be able to change it now and not at all, because you have been voted out of office a long time ago, and that is very sad. I think that in Slovenia we are so disciplined and responsible people, of course, that with some real approach I think that we could easily inject ourselves, with ease, and with ease, of course, then do not look with tears in the eyes up against Scandinavia how the Danes live well because they have just crossed over. We're no worse than the Danes. Why would we be? But in all of this, as I'm referring to ministers, of course, Minister Hojs is a chapter for himself. No, because of his ridiculous retreat. He gave up, but no, for the people's responsibility. Because of his responsibility and fear of the President of the Government, because he did not complete the missions at that time, but he received from the military they called us a "retirement". Go back, you didn't do your job. And he plays a good game with this coming to the operations headquarters to protest that, then we all deal or was there or wasn't there what he was doing, he wasn't doing and that's then top darkness. What's going on back at the police station and slowly forgets and slowly forgets? That there is unmerciful politicisation and ruthless political support for the entire police system. Maybe they're not saying there's a criminal platoon in Tacno. But you know what they now call Tacen in the Police Department? Disposal of police chiefs, because from all positions within the police you have removed and I must say this is not a political frame-up, this is an illustration. So they removed all the personnel that you didn't want regardless of their qualifications, professional, long-term work in the police department now have these people there with ficus and here and there with some computer and are practically out of work. You're selling a story about the fact that, of course, due to the need for police personnel, you also have to have people who are going to educate these police officers and that these people have landed in Tacno, that's a complete lie. That's a complete lie. Of all these, I will tell the police chiefs or people in important professional positions in the police is alone, alone, he has found some parallel work to at least partly teach at the Tacn Academy, and no one else, none of them learns, are all after some of these working groups, for which then Director Yuri did not even know what to do, and today no one can tell them exactly what to do, but they are there. And no one was removed in the way that somehow in the normal cultural world logically. So if you move someone or pull them off, you probably tell them that you decided to pull them off, you tell them why, probably so much respect, and a man's already worth telling him why he has to leave a job. But no, this isn't happening. This isn't happening. And it's never said otherwise than, it's been decided, it's been decided. Yeah, who decided who decided? If I've made up my mind, I've made up my mind if I'm the director. No, it's always been decided. And so, of course, we have this, and now indeed for a whole bunch of these suspended, yet highly trained personnel, who usually do nothing, but that is not all, because then the operatives who conduct individual investigations, in particular those who do not like the government or the ruling party, are being suspended or relocated. There's something about these investigations that I don't list. And so, in the middle of the investigation, they drop the head of the investigation, even without any explanation as to why. A criminal who worked with him on a suspicious purchase of equipment for the purposes of combating the epidemic, a criminalist, you said, he resigned himself, he quit what he himself gave up following this investigation because he knew what was ahead of him. And that's not the only case. It is a more eloquent example of how and in what way, for example, this head of investigation was succeeded by another criminal who came from the police administration of Celje. And it's strange that when a criminal from the police department moves somewhere, I don't know, but it's police practice, I don't know if the minister accepts it, in this case the interior minister, and then goes to work at the National Bureau of Investigation. This criminalist worked with a criminalist on the police administration of Celje, who has now been a close associate of Minister Pozvalska for several years. And this criminalist, look at him, when he comes to the National Investigation Office, he becomes one of the two lead investigators in this same case, investigating Minister Počvalska. The circle is complete. Even the secret society of PGC could cover it up better somehow. That's a little too clear. And it's no big deal, Secretary of State, because you haven't mentioned the name to me before, but you've already mentioned on the committee that I know a lot about the police, which you don't, and on the board you've mentioned the Director-General of Police, and even the Minister, what I know about the police. I know nothing more than the entire Slovenian public knows. These are all public affairs, these are all public affairs. The things I'm talking about were spoken of by the Witnesses at the first hearing of the investigative committee I run. So nothing out of the ordinary, nothing out of the ordinary, I don't meet with cops of course, less of whom I go out for coffee than you did last Friday. These are just things that are publicly known. I just... I just sort of put them in a pile. And I could list a lot of things. Well, all you have to do is follow the media, and sometimes you have to hear it, sometimes you have to hear it. And, of course, pull analytically together what's going on. Otherwise, nothing new, nothing like you should be afraid of what I know. I don't know anything. But it is true that there will probably be a lot more to learn on this investigative committee. About this one, and backed up our hypothesis that it was, however, a marked and exaggerated policy intervention with the police. Not only in recruitment, but also in the police's purely operational decisions. And that, you know, you don't understand exactly what political recruitment means in this case. What does political recruitment mean? Not what you're saying is that we don't already employ politically, because we even have an SD employee in the cabinet. That's not it. Political staffing is when a policy interferes with the field of police recruitment, although it does not have the authority to do so. And the minister himself says he has no authority, that this is all in his hands, that this is all in the hands of the Director-General of Police and Police Management, but practice shows that this is not true. Practice doesn't seem to be true. And that many transfers within the police go beyond the knowledge of the Director-General. Only post-festums know about them, after they have to be signed. And that's the reality, that's what we're seeing when we're talking about the political subordination of the police. The victims, however, are these 8,000 police officers, not guilty, not guilty, who want to do their job honestly, their mission, and certainly feel that they are a public service for citizens. They're victims, they're in pain, believe me, if you're talking to cops. I don't know, but you're talking to them. With the cops on the ground. They're sore that people talk about them as political police, client police, and who knows what else. They don't care. And it doesn't matter when trust in a police officer's profession in two years has now fallen virtually to zero, people simply don't trust that profession. It's sad and it's a shame. And too bad. And it's not safe to say that this is happening. The policeman was the one to whom, of course, some hardship, or when something is wrong, we turn to the first. And that's what we want to do in the future. And I'm sure you can't destroy this to the end. I will not go further on the recommendations proposed in relation to this meeting, because you have rejected them anyway. However, it is the Government's argument that early elections would be harmful to this country because we could not successfully deal with the epidemic because it would threaten new and new riots. A claim that actually came out of the parallel world somewhere. As if it is not known what is the cause and why this dissatisfaction between citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is the same as it is. It is even threatened that police intervention should be strengthened in doing so, which is, in fact, to strengthen repression, which is literally a threat. And one wonders if we will ever see regular elections. I doubt that at a time when there will be a time for regular elections, the situation will be different, given what we have now. I doubt if anything will be significantly different. Would we then skip the regular elections because we have an epidemic and this incredible danger that everything will collapse if we go to the elections?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Franc Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor. You've fooled the public with a lot of things in your performance. And if we're talking about personnel exchanges, why did your Minister Poklukar replace the Director-General of the Police when he took over as Grand Chief? Tell me why he replaced the Director General of the NPU, Majenič, and appointed the Male. You know, a lot of ministers have changed in the past, and a lot of police directors have changed. And you're telling us what you've done before. You can nod your head all you want. But what was the relationship between your Minister of Finance and former Director General Bobnar's, and I'd rather not speak here because it's not for the public. Because it's not for the public. I know. People working in the cabinet or in the general police administration can tell what was the attitude of former Minister Poklukar to the women's sex and the Director-General of the Police, Mrs Bobnar. We better not talk about this, though. You're saying some of the personnel stuff goes through Dr. Anton Olay. Nothing goes past Dr. Anton Olai, nothing, that's a lie. On a proposal from the Minister, Dr. Anton Olay was appointed Director-General and he is responsible for the police and the full staffing structure. And you won't forbid the minister if he knows any criminals or has a friend in the police department that he can't have a conversation with him. Like me, who knows a bunch of cops, I have a bunch of friends that no one should visit me in the minister's office. I'm asking you nicely. Where do we live? Just like you wanted to tell me what I've been doing with the Director General. Do you know what I was doing? I've been dealing with the problems of the police, what the former minister didn't solve the problem. That the marine police were fed, that they didn't have a single vessel to stand for P66 to stand for more than three and a half years, and no one had a headache. [[Incomprehensible]] That you used to rob cops of old TBS that cost 103 euros instead of buying them new ones in the past. One shirt for the whole day of the summer season. Even today, maritime police have no uniform, 30 years after independence they have no uniform. How's the helicopter squadron? How's the Navy of the Slovenian Police? What are the conditions on the Ljubljana Police Administration for work or on Stephano Street of MNZ? This government will solve this problem, it already is. Some of you mentioned the union's relationship with the MNZ leadership. I was appointed by the government as chief negotiator at the time of the police strike. We agreed on everything, everything. We made a deal with the PSS. But it is true that the other union is offended because we have all agreed that police officers, state border guards will get 150 euros each month, gross, with police on the street 140 euros, with technical staff, with support for logistics, with police, with cleaners, riflemen, vehicle repairmen, administrators, and 100 euros. Because they deserve it. I don't know why you didn't set this up for the Slovenian cops before. And an obvious political frame-up. Please. Where, when, how? But you despise the controls that were done at the NPU and the General Police Administration, and you despise them, and you know them very well, Mr Medved, because you know more than I know, the Minister or even the Director of Police. On the committee, you said a few words that you were in direct contact with or had information about what was going on in internal protection regarding the human resources issue. [[Incomprehensible]] And on the board, I warned you nicely that you were the kind of person that you didn't call by name, by name, because you were talking about the content that only this person could have known. But you denied it. But you won't convince me personally. But I'm here today, as a representative of the government, asking who politicized the police, that you know more than the director of the police? Even the Director of Police did not know about internal security controls in one procedure. Just today, I checked with the Director General, Dr. Anton Olai. And from your debate, I saw that you knew. How is that possible? And I can honestly say that here, and I also told you on the committee of the mother. You don't need to beat yourself up, honourable Member, so there won't be a regular election. Regular elections are called by the President of the State, Borut Pahor. I am sure that it will follow the legal obligations imposed on it, when and how and during which period it must call for regular parliamentary elections. However, Mr Pahor will not afford to call for regular parliamentary elections. I'm sure there will be, believe me. That's how many Democrats Mr. Pahor is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, you want to create an urban myth in every way, about my behaviour on the inside of the police, but above all, you keep repeating that it was me sitting in this room and the minister there that I knew that there was a meeting between the prosecutors and the police. How? How? However, it was, of course, a few days earlier, and the minister also, I think, told on a committee that the police brought nothing tangible to the prosecutors so that it could act on the issue of the leaders of these protests. That's what the minister himself said they didn't bring anything tangible, and a few days ago it was in the paper. And then I'm supposed to be from a meeting and I don't know what kind of meetings are going on at your place. [[…]] With regard to the relationship between the Director-General of Police and the Minister of the Interior, I am sure, and also, I have seen, of course, on several occasions that this relationship was absolutely very, very professional and also had excellent cooperation, which is important. No one has ever said that the Minister of the Interior must not cooperate with the Director-General of the Police, yes, perfectly normal, and you, if you are a secretary, are perfectly normal to cooperate with the police, yes. Now, what do you know that you won't speak for the public, I don't know, but as much as I've been to meetings, because we've also had many times with the Ministry of Public Administration any police-related matters, especially as far as wages are concerned, of course, this relationship has been professional. Your professional attitude towards trade unions is now shown in this final decision by the general police administration that they must trade all the materials, police unions, both unions, all the material related to the operation of police unions, first send it to the general police administration to verify if things can go public. That's what happened these days.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the word to prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Slovenia is a democratic republic. Slovenia is a legal and social state. In Slovenia, power is vested in the people. Citizens and citizens shall exercise it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters. All of this is recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the 30th anniversary of which will be held at the end of this December. The principle of the division of power of the Slovenian Constitution lays down the principle of human sovereignty and its purpose is to prevent abuses of power, since they always go at the expense of the people or at the expense of the rights of the individual. Unfortunately, at the time of this government, the principle of power-sharing has been suspended in many respects, particularly in government rulings under the pretext of controlling the disease of the crown virus, despite the fact that so far the Constitutional Court has repealed a number of regulations. That's why my recommendation to the government would be next. If you already have problems with respect for the Constitution, problems with the rule of law and human rights, problems with freedom of expression, speech, public appearances, the press and other forms of public information and expression, then respect at least ten of God's commandments. It would be even better if the government, the president, and the ministers followed a modern alternative to the well - known decadent commandment given to Moses on Mount Sinai. First, be open - minded and ready to change your beliefs on the basis of new evidence. Secondly, try to understand what is most likely true and do not believe what you want to believe. Thirdly, the scientific method is the most reliable way to understand the world. Fourthly, every person has the right to control his own body. Fifthly, it is not necessary to believe in God in order to be a good person or to live a full and meaningful life. Six, be aware of the consequences of your actions and accept that you must be responsible for them. A week, treat others as you would like others to treat you and as you can reason that they want to be treated. Think about their perspective. Eighthly, we are responsible to consider others, including future generations. Nine, there's not just one right way to live. And the tenth alternative command of the modern world, leave the world as a better place than the one you found. These ten alternative commands of today's world are summarized by the book Atheistic Heart, Humanist Reason, and I hope that they will act on at least one of these commandments on the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u199	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'll keep my word, I'll keep my word. And that is the key problem for this current government to have a constant problem with words. So they never stick to the word, they're hard to hold on to, or they use it wrong, or they even abuse it, I tell you, directly. And I'm gonna go straight ahead. See, in fact, as far as non-conformity is concerned. Mr. Hoys has given up irrevocably. In fact, irrevocably, he must have given up irrevocably. So you have people who don't keep their word or who don't want to keep their word. Then you are afraid of words written, spoken critical in the media and, of course, because you have a problem with critical words, you want to silence and destroy STA, RTV and from a few days ago also POP TV. If you don't know, Mr. Prime Minister has been very rudely attacking the POP TV media house in a very, very ugly way. Moving on, then you have another problem with your words when it comes to marriage records or words that are in marriage or that are legal words. When you get your verdicts, you have a problem with that again, with critical words, and of course you attack the prosecution, the courts, the Constitutional Court and so on. And this is actually your biggest problem to constantly manipulate words, and this is also today at a session here of all of the coalitions very well, and also obviously you have someone, I will say, maybe even some kind of evening school at the government or at the ministries where they teach you this Trumpian use of words that are one big, I will say, clumsily, but they have the effect that you want to achieve that people do not believe that they are confused, that they are afraid because it was also the basic purpose of these Trump performances or the performance itself. And that's a really big problem with you. Constantly – and I've already said this at the board meeting – people don't believe you in words, not just because you don't hold it, but because you constantly convert it. And your basic problem is the word, and then it will end with the last word. And the last word will be the voters, the electorate they just have to get. And with that last word, they will also show that they want better societies, better societies and societies, which not only play with words, but also stick to the word. And you, the government and the coalition MPs are or are not, in this case I will refer directly to the Secretary of State or rather use Minister Hojs, in fact the right man or the right man holds the word, but the one who is not the right man or who is not the right man swallows the word and leaves the scene down, in the sense that you want to do so. And you do not deserve further rulership or authority because it is simply literally too much for this country and our people. And it is true that we are going to early elections as soon as possible, not only to want power, because if we wanted to, we would really want power so badly, but even the conversion of power would happen in this time, but in fact people want people, people not only to change power, but to change the atmosphere in this country, which is now literally useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Franz Kangler, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u201	Yeah, I'll be brief. Honourable Member of the Left, Mr Koražija, you do not keep your word and your President, Luka Moon. He broke his word about the support of the government of Marjan Šarc. You're the one who brought down the government, you're the Left. You're responsible, you don't keep your word. For once in the coalition, they keep their word. The coalition is solid and functioning. The coalition doesn't rule out, and the coalition connects, and you shut it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u202	Here's a replica, Bosniak Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u203	To clear up this constant abuse of the word who is to blame. Now I'm going to say it almost directly. What Mr. Restorantsek personally said in an interview in June publicly in the media was that SMC was the main driving force in the establishment of this new 14 government. So stop that, because the gentlemen of November have made almost all the arrangements, and that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u204	I suggest we move on. Mag. Andrea Reich, I see he's not in the hall. The word is Lydia Ivanus, prepare Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u205	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice quiet good evening, everybody! I agree that the situation in Slovenia is worrying. It's true that no one responds when the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense receive a charge by mail. No one is responsible for the transparency and call for the death of Janshism, which can also be freely defended by people working on public television, paid by all taxpayers. Those who support the transition left are allowed everything but everything. This meeting is just another attempt by the left-wing opposition to hold power is to waste the time and money of all taxpayers. Instead of this meeting, laws could be adopted today to facilitate any concern of our citizens and citizens. We could talk about those who are most in need of help, about Slovenians who live below the poverty line, but no, we are talking again and discussing that the Slovenian Left in Slovenia sees only one possible authority and that is itself. I come from an environment where people are used to working, where annual holidays and a full table are not self-evident. I know the hardships of people, I have experienced some of them in my life, I work all the time, I fight to make the life of my child as beautiful and as carefree as possible, and all the children in Slovenia deserve such a life. This is the goal that each of us should have in this room, and not everyone has. Not to some colleagues and colleagues here is the goal of exclusive authority and I must forgive the direct dipping of taxpayer money into my pocket is really not the purpose of this service. Today we are not here because Slovenia would be in a political crisis. At present, the Government is composed of the party with the largest votes in the previous elections. The next government should also be composed of those who receive the most votes from the Slovenians and Slovenes. It's the only way to hear everyone's voice, and that's how democracy works in full motion. The election will be next year. I wonder why the left opposition can't wait for these few months. What's the main reason? Are you running out of money that you used to get from public funds through various relationships? It's not a question of when the election will take place. The question is, what else can we do for Slovenians and Slovenians in this time of elections? I'm not interested in promises, I'm interested in actions. There have been enough meetings of this kind where we hear about how left-wing parties should be in power. It is our job and our duty to make decisions for the benefit of all citizens and citizens and not for the benefit of elites. In this Chamber, I want us to adopt laws for people, laws for a better life for all, laws that will reunite this divided society. Let Slovenia be a country where everyone will be proud and in which everyone will want to live. Therefore, respectable colleagues from the left opposition, stop throwing pollen under the feet of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Start working for the good of everyone and start cooperating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has the word, and she's going to be discussed by the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u207	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good evening. I must say that today's debate, which has been very painful and very far from the topic that we should really talk about, has made me very sad, and in particular this last discussion of my colleague very surprised me. On the one hand, representatives of the coalition boast that they adopt laws for people, on the other hand, the same laws adopted by the same coalition do not take account of themselves. On the one hand, the colleague is expressing herself before me, but caring for all the children, on the other hand, is not asked, how about the children of the employees of the STA live when the government has not paid them for the work they have done for 299 days. This is the duality that this government shows from day to day, and today's debate, with all due respect for all of us in this Chamber, shows the greatest bottom of Slovenian current policy. Maximum bottom. And the alarming situation in our country is alarming. You can also say, wave with sheets, with charts, with graphs, with such and different economic growth, credit rating, I don't know what else. You can wave, but if you work from day to day all for the fact that our parliamentary democracy is actually dying in front of our eyes, then, now I am talking to respectable citizens and citizens who may still be listening to us at this hour, dear citizens, it means nothing or nothing to you. Because once you feel what it means to lose democracy on your own skin, then I'm afraid it'll be too late for you for us. This foundation of democracy, the condition for the existence of democracy, is respect for the fundamental principles of the division of power, respect for laws and legislation, respect for judicial decisions, respect for courts and the judiciary, and, finally, the basis for democracy is also the existence of political responsibility when circumstances arise. And as long as we have such government representatives with such a backpack behind us as he had described for each of his fellow Rudi, I am afraid we are sinking again into everything before democracy. We're sinking into something else, a different state arrangement. And if anyone asks what we, say in LMSH, would do differently, I can answer you immediately. We'd start at the foundation, and that's respect for the laws that are passed in this house. This government does not respect the STA Act, does not respect the State Prosecutor's Act, does not respect judicial decisions, is making a fool of all citizens practically. And once we agree that once we agree that the rules of the game do not apply to everything the same, democracy dies before our eyes. On the one hand, we have government February, which selectively chooses which laws will apply, which we do not, and on the other hand we have all normal citizens, who pay fines, fines of more than EUR 2 million on the basis of – beware – the unconstitutional decisions repealed by the Constitutional Court adopted by that same government. That's a nice thing to say to all of us, that's what I mean to all of us citizens. And I must admit that I am truly, truly disappointed and sad that, as much as we try to speak, explain, justify, quote the decisions of the Constitutional Court, quote the Supreme Court's decision, quote the Administrative Court's decision, quote the provisions of the laws, explain that the hierarchy of legal acts has its meaning, unfortunately, accounting standards cannot be above the law, and so on, as much as we try in one way or another, in a calm or slightly more emotional manner, we always run into the wall and onto your ignorance. And once again, I'm going to repeat what I think is most crucial for citizens to finally understand when you're throwing sand in their eyes. Under the pretext of fighting for the lives of citizens, you can hide under these words, but, respectable citizens, when democracy dies before your eyes, when you finally feel the consequences of the absence of a democratic state, it will be too late. Historical facts testify to this. And I don't want this to happen for our country. But I'm very afraid that at the rate you're taking, a respected coalition, we'll be there before we even know we're there.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, she will be discussed by Alice Jeraj. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very well greeted by the Secretary of State and other colleagues and colleagues. I will not repeat at the outset what my colleague, Jura Ferrjan, has already said about the statements made by the coalition partners in the resignation of former Prime Minister Marjan Sarc, but I will only summarize what you have read to each other. There was no teamwork, such as squeezing, grinding, and humane shopping, that everyone was looking for their space under the sun and that the boat was constantly shivering, that it was the easiest way to go and leave. This was said, and when I read it several times, I see that you actually use those same words against the current government, which means why you gave up and why you initially merged. The only reason was that you excluded the largest government party, the SDS party and, of course, President Janez Janša. And so it is today. The only common goal you had in signing the agreement is not to cooperate with us, with the largest government party and not with President Janez Janša. But everything else matches the same. You're reading to this government that we're instilling various laws, that we're pushing things into decisions, that we're recruiting, that human resources shopping, that's not a team, but that the SDS party is the one that decides everything within the coalition, which, of course, is not true again. And that was the easiest thing to do, but it was clear, because you couldn't cooperate anymore. However, I do not understand what my colleague Medved said before me, namely that it was a perfectly logical and natural decision that Marjan Sarec gave up. I think political decisions are being made here, but if we're going to make some natural decisions, then I don't understand this statement, but why are you re-deciding to merge if it's a natural decision again? If you have not been able to cooperate at the time, you will not be able to cooperate. Let us go to the proposalr's words in the text that in the eyes of those first inhabitants of Slovenia this government should withdraw. And to pave the streets, passing through, children's playgrounds, and that this government rules only with violence. Now, I'm going to ask you, is this really what you're saying, but in the picture, you see that these are the first inhabitants of Slovenia? Jenul, Zlatko Stevanović. They're the first inhabitants. Rather, they are organizers of protests, undeclared protests. And do they really defend some of the values of Slovenia if we see that the symbols of the former country are at the protests. Probably not. And why the police make such decisions, it seems, the protests are violent. And if we look at it all together, why does the police, who you keep reading to her, of course they have to, because it's by the Constitution that she has to protect. It must protect, if there is no peaceful assembly and there is no peaceful public assembly, it must protect public security and there has been no such public security in these protests. And she also had to protect the spread of infectious diseases. If we still have representatives in opposition parties who took part in protests without protective masks and called for protests, then, in fact, the police must act on their own if you do not help to make the situation better in the country. And then what was the point, why everything you pointed out, from the water cannon, to the tear, was used, because you encouraged yourself when President Janez Janša hosted the summit of the European Union and the Western Balkans, of course, we cannot show ourselves beyond what state we are, but we must be responsible. We must be responsible for the fact that there are no incidents in our country. But you yourself have written in the proposal that, in accordance with the Amnesty International guidelines on the use of force, tear gas can only be used in cases where violence is widespread in order to drive out the crowd and only if violence is not stopped by any other means, and that is exactly what happened. The police urged the crowd to disperse to go home, but no, the people insisted, the protesters persisted, and those I mentioned earlier also encouraged persistence. What I don't understand is how parents brought the kids to the protest. It's irresponsible parenting. If they have already decided to attend the protests themselves, let them attend, but not the children now drag there and then the police are scattered here, that the children are also tear gas. So you have to look at things from different angles, why the police did the same way they did. Then on, you say that the only solution would be a new coalition that will take care of people, and at the same time, at today's session, the previous session, you step out of the hall, when something is really being taken for people, that people will have something more, and the worst part, the unions support it, that people are no longer allowed. And you also did not support the decisions taken in the PKP packages, which were also for citizens and citizens and, of course, for the economy. Because today we have such indicators as have been told that I will not repeat myself because I want to leave some more time for my colleagues and colleagues behind. You are probably also disturbed by the fact that not only the coalition mayors and those who are supporters of these parties, which we are in the coalition, but also others, those who may have been supporters, the opposition parties, are praising this government and also praising the decisions it makes and, of course, also praises the work of the Prime Minister, Janez Janša. All of this hurts, of course, it hurts, but, the results show, the indicators show and here, it's an undeniable fact, which is the worst, but it's that you brought the mission to Slovenia. [[?]] The European Parliament, which is to determine the actual state of respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, under the leadership of [[Incomprehensible]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] And in fact, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u210	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u211	What happened? [[…]] It happened that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u212	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u213	that they saw the picture in Slovenia, that we were divided into two genders, and that is the only problem. [[…]] Everything else that public institutions in Slovenia are operating and that there are substantial findings that there were no systemic violations in the Republic of Slovenia and had nothing to say. And there is no reason for the European Commission and the European Parliament to act on the Republic of Slovenia. And now here you've lost those adutes in your hands. So then you have to call sessions like today, so that you can hear maybe even those few words that can be heard, because I think that a lot more people won't believe you. This is even worse, isn't it, because in the end, you want to show that Slovenia is not valued in European countries. No, the President of the Slovenian Government, Janez Janša, received the award of personality in 2020, Central and Eastern Europe, for outstanding achievements and leadership contribution [[?]] Europe [[applause in the background]] And that hurts you, that's the fact that it hurts you, and we're going to make a success of it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u214	Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u215	for the people, for the Republic of Slovenia, for the protection of those who come to the Republic of Slovenia and for us to be a successful member of the European Union. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Look, fellas, I suggest you treat your colleagues with respect. There's no particular reason to bother each other here. Please. Please. Please. Please, hold on to this, because otherwise we'll be doing other things, and there's no need. [[…]] However, a subsequent change occurred. So he'll get the word "Joja Lenart" first, then "Alenka Jeraj".
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Yes, so much has been heard from all sides today. There was a great deal of gratitude for what this government has done, but I would like to ask the following questions now, distinguished representatives of the government. From the beginning of the meeting, I took one analytical approach to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from 2019 until 2023. Here's what I'm trying to figure out. The government of 2019 has left 31 billion 740 million. The 2020 budget, which has been completed, has remained debt of 3 billion 486. This is the real debt that has increased to 35 billion 226. In 2021 we are threatened with additional debt due to the deficit of 3 billion 958 and total debt, the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia will increase to 39 billion 184 million. Year 2022, budgets in reception. The deficit of 2 billion 472, the debt increases to 41 billion 656 million. In 2023, the budget was examined. Indebted deficits of 518 billion, debt increases to 43 billion 174 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u218	Comrade Lenart, agenda item Read what you tabled and signed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u219	Yeah, an eyewitness to the government. Where did she take us?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u220	I'm talking about emergency, handling. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u221	Thus, because of the financial situation, the President-in-Office is respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u222	We are talking about excessive police violence, politicization, police militarisation and so on, not budgetary violence. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u223	Yeah, I've been listening to the success of these governments all day, and now I want to say where the real situation is. I was owed €15 000 333 in 2019. Today, this is said under budget 2023, and I will be EUR 20 000 857. What does that mean? Where does this government take us with all the problems we have with this spending when you're telling us where you're putting everything? The biggest problem is that only the debt in 2023, that only this deficit is still only a billion 518, means that a large amount of money is being increased, not to the municipalities, nor to the public salaries, nor to the interest, because we know that they are rising and this debt is rising.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u224	Thank you very much. At least those of you who are attacking would suggest that you attack with the content you have presented in the document. None of what you have just said is the content of the document that we are considering. None of that. The text was requested by Secretary of State Franc Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr. Lenart. Public debt has increased in all of the European Union's Member States in all of this you must recognise. The EU has now also taken decisions on the so-called allocation of resources to mitigate the covid situation in order to reduce its public debt over the next decade, and Slovenia has received a lot of money here. You know very well how many billions, because you've been taking the program here. Economic growth, which is the one that also ensures a better financial situation, is primarily the condition of the country so that this public debt can be increased. On the one hand, it is increasing on the other hand in view of economic growth, ensuring that the annuities, which are in any way related to public debt in some foreseeable time, are also decreasing. In view of the adoption of the budget to the Council of State for 2022, 2023 is evident from all transfers foreseen for this period and visible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that those of you who requested a session with the inscription that there are worrying situations in the country and urgent early elections, everything in the country is wrong and you of the 35 signed here sit 8, 10 on average, so you obviously don't even believe what you wrote. Now, in debt and all these things have already been answered, I would have told my colleague Reich, if he hadn't left, that his president had given the Thai banks money to keep giving them to the tycoons, that with Minister Chufar they had put hundreds of millions of dollars into the Factor Bank, Probank and so on. Her colleagues in NLB and Jankovic and all the other construction barons. And once again, Janez Janša's credits were not given by the Prime Minister, but by the bankers, and so today someone should be sitting, but they were awarded millions of dollars for the prize, but not for what they were doing. Now to the darkness, but no. To protest. Article 42 states that the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is guaranteed. I repeat, until peaceful assembly. The legal restrictions on these rights shall be permissible if this requires the security of the State or public safety and protection against the spread of communicable diseases. We have all of this with us, and that is why all these meetings that have taken place since last year or since are not in line with the law. You're telling us we don't stick to the law when the protestors break them, but it's okay. So it's very clear what happens after the Constitution says this is followed by the Law on Public Assembly. And it states that whoever organizes the meeting must report it to the owner's consent, where he will walk, if he does it on the road, he must be allowed to lock the road and so on. With us, however, we know that these protestors and organizers are in violation of the law. The protest should not be at all, because if it is not reported, the protest must not be and the police must dissolve it, not keep it there and spend money because some of them are on the road. You can protest, but you have to report the meeting, then you're on the market or somewhere, not endangering the lives on the roads and so on. Imagine the last time they went to the curb, there was a crash, someone got hit by a car, and so on. It would probably be John Janša's fault, but it wasn't his fault in this country. On Wednesday, 6 October, when the EU's Western Balkans summit was held in the Presidency, the middle of the protest became a Tuesday protest, but not a protest. Where roadblocks were forecast, to prevent the implementation of an international meeting and so on. The protest was organised by Cranian saint Zoran Stevanovic, who has been formed in recent weeks, but not, of course, since no one has been punished so far, he has also decided to organize a meeting that he will not report, but no. He had already organized a meeting against the PCT condition and had to be mediated by the police because he was, he was born into accidents. The day before that was at Mr Pahor's, where we could only be amazed, but not to accept someone who was expelled from the police for drinking, shooting and insurance fraud. Now on the street he threatens, encourages violence, violations of public order and peace. And Mr. Pahor accepts it. Crazy country, you might say, no. And all of a sudden, we don't know that he's the organizer, even though he brings sound to the meeting, he invites individuals to the microphone to talk to people, and so on. Now, Tuesdays, this Tuesday protest then got out of control, but no. Of course, when Zlatan Čordić invited the protesters to the street and so on. We also know him, but not, breaking into a national celebration, harassing the director of the NIJZ, ripping out the camera of the camera recorder, harassing the accordionist at Tromostov, not talking about exploiting the status of a solo artist, but not, and bringing the country around when it went beyond censorship, set up a society that was still receiving funds and is now dealing with it by the financial administration. Well, the government activated Section 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and limited movement in the area for 48 hours. And instead of, but not to condemn, after the break-up and so forth, the crackdown on Ljubljana and the harassment of foreign delegations, the violation of public order and peace, and these are not peaceful protests, you keep saying peaceful protests, but these are not peaceful protests for me. Neither were all those before the National Assembly, since 28 February last year when there was no government, and people have threatened to die and Janša must be killed and so on, no protest has been very calm since then. The fact that you put up the puppets of politicians and stone them, and you light them, and that, that's not easy for me. That you're working hard in the middle of the square, or that you're watering your tables with blood and that or that red color, it's not peaceful for me, and it's not a protest for me that you're saying you don't agree with anything. And we have a police force in this country to make it work. They said they were working on the protocols they had. They're making a security assessment. We were pretty angry when the cubes flew into parliament here, when the bars were broken and so on, and we wondered how the police had judged so poorly that they had come practically to the door and thrown torches into the building and so on. These are not peaceful protests for me, and such protests must be sanctioned. It's an incident, not a protest. And it's right for the police to act, and it's also right for everyone to condemn it, because once you get a granite cube in your head or one hammer in your head. I don't know what it's gonna be, then who's to blame. And since no one gets hurt, they let themselves go every time. I told you a year ago when we were looking at the inscriptions, the death of Janshism, that it would get worse every time. And actually it is. I've told Mr Sketa, the Attorney General, if they don't act, things will go on. It's worse every time, now they're sending bullets, next time someone's gonna shoot somebody. And then you go to such a protest, giving legitimacy, giving courage to all those who are just violating everything in this country that can be violated. I'm confident that people see this destructive attitude of yours, and you won't be able to avoid saying that you don't support violence and I don't know what. If you show up there and several times you have appeared many of you, many of you, you, Fajon, Siter, I don't know, Stromajer, a whole bunch of things, Mrs. Sukičeva is regular, still there against the protest for the march for life and so on, all undeclared, all undeclared, even you are breaking the law, you are also breaking the law, and you could be deeply engrossed because you are at such a meeting. But because people see this destructive attitude of yours and that you are against everything, against masks, against that, against that, against that, and in the next breath you say that it is our fault that there are not enough people vaccinated to spread the epidemic and so on. We're working to limit the virus. But you work in a different direction because you have such problems with the country or with this government, but it's not a problem of government, we all have to fight the virus together. That's all. Now there was also talk about personnel. Look, it's an effective frame for me to replace inefficient people with those who know what to do, and they do it, and then they're the results. But we looked at the positions of the people, none of whom were there. Before that, I mentioned bankers who were supposed to be sitting in jail, and they got a million dollars. Nobody's been locked up in Iceland in all these years, I don't know how many, 60 bankers, we haven't got one, but we've put 5 billion in banks because of a hole made by bankers. We had an investigative commission in this National Assembly led by Dr. Logar, sent charges and so on, and nothing happened. So all of these conclusions that we have already rejected at the committee meeting, including the Legal and Legislative Service, have told you that it cannot be that it is not within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Whether he will replace one minister is the matter of the Prime Minister, whether he will dissolve the government, is a matter of the Prime Minister, not of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u228	Thank you very much. She's a proponent, mag. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'd like to go ahead and make one thing clear. 42. Article 42 of the Constitution provides that everyone is entitled to a peaceful assembly of public assemblies and that this is permissible to be restricted by law if the security of the State, public safety or protection against the spread of communicable diseases so requires. And in the past year, the Constitutional Court has already decided that in Slovenia the right to peaceful assembly has been violated by banning all meetings. But there's something else that needs to be highlighted. Today, we have often heard that unorganized meetings are illegal, illegal, which is absolutely not true. The Law on Public Collections knows the category of “unorganised meeting”, which is defined as not planning to gather people without an organizer for expressing opinions, a respected colleague, you can listen to me, and views on issues of public or common importance in an open or closed space where access is permitted to anyone. And the police must ensure the protection of an unorganised meeting; they can only dissolve it if they have committed or called for the commission of criminal offences, public order disturbances, public traffic interference or threats to human health. So, the important thing is that these meetings are not illegal, illegal, as you wish and are constantly repeating today. These meetings, even if they are not declared, are within the framework of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Look, don't jump into the word speaker. There's no need. I'll give my word to anyone who asks for it, if he has time available, or if there are business grounds for it. It does not make sense, however, that this is how things are now being carried into waters that are not productive. I propose that we continue the debate. Can I help you? Replica? I hope it's a replica. Here you go, Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u231	President, it's a replica. Previously, it's been said that we have some things to clear up, but obviously we don't understand each other here. Article 6 of the Act is perfectly clear: it is prohibited to organize meetings or events with a view to committing offences or to calling for the commission of offences or for the purpose of causing violence, disturbance of public order or obstruction of public traffic. Then we also have the following: an event where permission is required. A permit is required for any event at which an open fire is used and for more than 3 000 participants. So the law is perfectly clear. And it's also known which events you don't have to apply for. That's what the law says. I'm reading this from the law, colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Primoz Siter has the word, he'll be discussed by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, Meira, for being so, you can see that you've made this dilemma out of a barrage of law, you've explained this dilemma around which we've been fighting for a while. I would also open it from a more human point of view and first ask for public recognition that perhaps of all Members I am the most frequent visitor to these meetings. But the bitches won't be here, and Comrade Sukič won't agree, but whatever, a joke aside. Dear Secretary, it's a shame to hear all these quasi excuses on the subject of justifying police violence and tear gas because we're talking about it right now. We're talking police violence. Even by some political option that barks at the topic of meetings are undeclared, meetings are undeclared [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u234	My friend, I'm giving you a first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u235	Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u236	It's about barking. I do not allow political options to use such terms. Speak Respectfully [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u237	Okay, in order to promote that meetings are undeclared and illegal, from a political option that serves for a year and 8 months merely to say illegal constitutionally disputed, socially unacceptable measures during such a social test in which we are. [[…]] And now, Madam Secretary, you have asked in one of your opening presentations, which is being beaten by the police, in the light of the fact that the police are acting controversially in protest, which the police are fighting. Dear Secretary, me. Personally. I got this in the back, the cop hit me on the floor. And because I photographed a meeting that I wasn't even a participant in, but I walked out of the National Assembly that Tuesday towards home and took pictures of a police unit, I got tear gas right in the eyes. That's who the police are hitting. And I'm not talking about the other part of this show when the cops apologized when they found out that there was a political official here - because they don't want to have this problem. Because a political officer must be treated differently from all other citizens. And apologized and pleaded that I should not start any proceedings. But it's just the tip of the iceberg in the problems we're talking about today. We have a year and eight months of long list every day of any affairs, what illegalities, what constitutional disputes, respected Secretary of State. And it's too long a list to shed light on everything now in your short debate. But I can only walk briefly on the list of issues of this government's work from today. We have one 800 million deep hole in the budget at the expense of tax breaks per year, we have a 400 million hole in municipal budgets, we have the privatisation of care for the elderly, the vulnerable, the disabled and so on - and that is just today. And if I start, I won't go, I don't have time to go into all the details, but if I start protesting, I'll end up protesting. This Tuesday, the distinguished secretary, someone posted on Twitter "and can the police go home, please, so that the meeting will be over?" that there will be an end to the protest. I conclude by rephrasing this: can this government go home, please, to end the crisis?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko the Secretary of State asked for the floor earlier. Franz Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Slovenian police don't hit anyone. He uses coercive measures against those who do not comply with police orders. And, Your Honor, you didn't want to file a complaint against a police officer. And for the sake of the public, I will read the findings of the police regarding this event. In addition, Ambassador Primo Sieter and I conducted an interview in which he said that he was not hit by a missile but by a bullet in the back. He also said he couldn't confirm that he'd even been hit by a police officer, but that's what he thought at first, because he turned in the direction the police were standing. He explained that he would tell the truth that there were a lot of people standing there in front of the police and that he was allowed to be hit by one of them when they were throwing different objects and that there was the possibility that someone deliberately and accidentally threw a fist at him and hit him. Then please don't trouble the police because these are your statements and the findings of the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Replica Primaj Siter. Here you go. Come on, please, colleague Sukich, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u241	Remember that I granted the request of a police officer who begged me not to start any proceedings against him because he was afraid of his superiors. Okay? It's a police climate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Can we proceed with the debate? The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, followed by Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. All in attendance, Your Honor. It's already late, we've been discussing for a long time, but it's a very, very important topic. It is a lot of instigation and lies that representatives of the coalition and representatives of the government are trying to expose on purpose here today. But first, if I may, I would first touch on the words spoken by Mrs Alenka Jeraj a few minutes ago and they are pure lies. In fact, Alenka Jeraj repeated today the lie that we Social Democrats were calling and present at the violent protests organised by Stevanović. Let me repeat again that neither I nor my President Tanja Fajon nor my colleague Matjaž Germans have ever and never called for violent protests and were even less present at these protests. The same has already been said by SDS Vice-President and Interior Minister Hojs, which is why he and his colleague, Matjaz Germans, are suing him. This is a pure lie, and I'm asking you not to repeat these lies. It is true, however, that I have been present several times and I do not deny it, in Friday's protests, which are non-violent and which have warned of what 80 per cent or more of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia warn. In view of the fact that this Government is abusing the epidemic and all its levers of power in order to subdue all institutions in the country, and this is, of course, unacceptable, and it is true that both civil society at assemblies and politics and everyone else are warning that this is unacceptable. And I'm asking you to stop fooling around and stop lying. However, I was, as I say, present several times at these Friday protests and will attend, but Friday's protests were not violent. And Friday's protests weren't anticipatory, so please don't cheat. I'd have called today more than once when you said these pictures and you were deceiving them, but until now there was no way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u244	Just this, please give peace in the hall, don't jump into the word, and don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u245	Yes, thank you very much for just ensuring peace, because the work of the National Assembly is obviously very much under this authority and just like all other institutions, also the National Assembly is obviously somewhat deprived of these new methods of government. And if I can go back to March [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u246	Is there something wrong with my leadership?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u247	Mr. Tanko, please don't bother me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u248	I'm asking because you're saying, you're telling me, with our methods of government, that we rule. I hope I've done the right thing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u249	Yeah, look, this comment [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u251	This commenting and stealing of time is by no means part of any parliamentary normal operation. However, I would like to point out that the functioning of this government is very harmful for this country, and this has proved to be very little since you took power in the country. I hope to state that I will repeat this once again, because the voter and voters who voted for the SMC party and for the Desus party did not vote for the Janša government. Reverse. Both parties made a clear commitment before the elections and even in the acquittal agreements that they would not go to the Janša government. And what's more than an electoral and electoral supremacy? And also after that, respected colleagues and colleagues, from the so-called liberal environment, after seeing where this government is actually leading, when you saw that the only purpose of this government was to abuse the epidemic to take over the media, to insult journalists, to insult all other thinking citizens and citizens, to embarrass Slovenia abroad, to congratulate our Prime Minister of the United States of America, saying that all the media, the media, the media, are lying. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u252	Comrade Koprivc, please return to the subject for which you have submitted [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u253	Dear Vice President, that's the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u254	It has nothing to do with Biden or Trump.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u255	That's the theme. And after all you've seen where this government leads and when you can turn and vote for a constructive non-trust, you haven't done it because you're obviously being held by Janez Janša and the comrades with something and that's why you're responsible for breaking down the foundations of democracy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u256	Comrade Koprivc, I'm giving you a warning for a disrespectful debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u257	to break down the foundations of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia, to act against the constitutional. [[…]] To break the media system, the judiciary, to abuse the police for the political purposes of the SDS party. It is not John Janš’s fault that all those who made this authority possible do so. John Janša is a tyrant, and he is a dictator, and some of us have known this since. But when it turned out [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u258	Comrade Koprivec, another reminder, and I take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u259	Yeah, I'm sorry. Wait, why do you take the word after all?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u260	Because you speak abusively. I've warned you. I want the debate to be respectful, you say anything, but you're not insulting. The replica of Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to replicate my colleague Mark Koprivec, because once again it happens that fellow Members of Parliament are citing and profaning their colleagues from the SMC, our group, our party, because in key moments she has chosen enough courage and decided to join the new coalition. Kola Koprivc and everyone else in the “cool” coalition in the SMC programme have never been written to cooperate with anyone neither with SDS nor with the left. Even when you speak so disrespectfully about some of the worship of tyrants, the tyrants kindly please have a picture in front of a monument in the centre of Ljubljana where you worship.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Procedurally, he first asked for mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u263	Look, vice president. You took my non-democratic word. I would ask that the National Assembly vote on this withdrawal of the word. Then I would ask that you allow me to continue my debate unless the National Assembly votes otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u264	Here you go. First, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u265	Madam President, I ask you to explain the basic concept to your colleague. It really didn't say that in their program. But there was a clear commitment, and the promise and the voters, then they took this promise for granted and sent the Members of the SMS to Parliament in such a number and so on because of this promise. So don't let a colleague fool around, explain these terms to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We will first decide on the procedural proposal of the Magi. Mark Koprivac. Now I'm warning you, I'm going to put you to a vote. If it is inconclusive, then there will be Members who are not present and there will be no quorum at the daily expense. Do you insist on a procedural proposal? Okay. The decision is an objection to the withdrawal of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u267	Comrade Tankko, I would just like to hear from your mouth the form of the decision, whether it will be binding or negative, that we know or vote in favour, against taking or voting on it, let us draw a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u268	I took his word. Now, Comrade Koprivc wants us to decide whether or not I have excused him. If you vote in favour of this decision, then Koprivc will be speechless, but if you refuse it, then Comrade Koprivc will be given the floor. We are voting first, and then we will proceed with procedural proposals. We're voting. Sorry, we'll fix it. The beginning of the vote. And I did the right thing. [[talking to each other]] Why doesn't he take it? Here you go, now it's working. If you vote in favour, then there will be a decision or my decision, if against, then Koprivc12, 13 present, is said to be inconclusive, we are voting again. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I took my colleague's word, my colleague protested against taking the word and we are voting on it. Now, if you vote in favour, I said earlier, I will call for my decision if you vote against this decision, then my colleague will be able to get the floor for the debate. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 18 Members and Members present. We're inconclusive. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll continue at 10 p.m. and 6 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 21.56) (The sitting resumed at 22.06)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u269	There are 22 Members present, i.e. the vote, the meeting is not final, the vote was not final, so I am adjourning the meeting. You will be informed of the continuation of the meeting later. Good night, have a nice trip home.
