ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I shall begin the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 2, Article 58, paragraph 1 and Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 95th meeting. 2. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Monika Gregorčič by 2 p.m., Mateja Udovč by 2 p.m., mag. Carmen Furman, Susanna Lep Šimenko, Jurij Lep, Ljubo Žnidar, Marijan Pojbič, Alexander Reberšek, Dusan Šiško, Jani Ivanuša, Blaž Pavlin, Franci Kepa, Samo Bevk from 2 p.m. to 11 p.m., Brane Golubović and Bojan Podrošek until 2 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation shall not be announced by any Member or Member of the Parliament at a meeting outside the seat of the National Assembly using a remote-session application in the form of a videoconference. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in connection with the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with a first-signed Dr. France Trčko. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. France Trčko requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Franc Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u2	Thank you. Your Honor! What does autonomy mean? Independence means, above all, that you think your own future, who we are, where we came from, where we want to go, how we're going to get the desired prosperity for everyone and, like me, of course, I like to say that with which money. After 30 years, we should finally know. What should we know? No European Union, no European Commission, no OECD, no NATO, no AmCham and the like will think these questions about us and instead of us, and in particular not in our diverse interests. The task of politics in a narrower sense, so all of us here, is to think about these things daily, beyond the questions of each of us, whether I will be elected to the next term and how long, lately, I will regret too much corruption, by politics. It's a public use of the mind. It is a matter of thinking about social space development, infrastructure-communal development and, above all, economic and industrial development as a matter of substance, as well as the development of a social and legal state, especially healthy societies for all of us, in the long process of democratisation and civilisation. That's our primary assignment. This is the key task of the National Assembly and the policy in general. The urgent reforms, legislation, budget, resolutions, white books, staffing must be based on the ability of these diverse legitimate considerations of all of us here. I'll continue with two quotations. First: “Our gross domestic product is as it is. It won't get any bigger, we won't find any oil. The only serious development potential we have is ourselves, the real people. We are also underinvesting in this and we need to decide on priorities." Second: "This is what we are working towards, and this is what the exit strategy is intended to do, by trying to make jobs that will be created, jobs with high added value, not just jobs where we will talk about guaranteed minimum wages." Whoever has been accompanying the last two meetings, 62nd and 63rd extraordinary sessions, knows that these are quotations from Ivan Janez Janša, president of the current government. So we cannot say that the President of the 14th Government is not aware of these challenges. When the cameras go out, – let's be honest – we are all more or less aware of them, and in this respect, as Mr Cernač well acknowledged at the UNES meeting, we are quite united. And man would expect, in particular from the experienced policy and government, to open a broad public debate last summer on issues related to our future development, the content of NOOs and future cohesion, including NRPs and potential developmental debt; to include a wide range of stakeholders, workers and workers who create prosperity, including our salaries after all, employees or all businesses, the wisdom we have not only in higher education, intergenerational cooperation, representatives of local autonomy, not only the mayors, but also of them, of course, and especially young people. In short, to allow for a balance of power between the state and society, as Acemoglu and Robinson would say. Some of you may know these two authors by means of a more well-known book Why the Nations Fail. Did Jansha do it, or did the 14th government do it? No, it's not, it's not. Close circle, half a year's mark internally on the NOO document, misleading the Minister of State for Dialogue. We had a thousand 300 economists on the Hill. If that session lasted 24 hours and Janša spoke for only one hour, how long would it be for every economist? You're not a science-mathematic technique. I'm a bad minute. It is also not a debate that the President of the Government, as last Friday, has more than 4 hours of Chivka on Twitter and then has a little conversation at night with Lahovnik, a little group of Lahovniks. This is not a debate. And of course this is followed by the mockery of the Coalition of the Constitutional Arc and anyone who would question the correctness of the government's way of preparing the NOO. This is sort of, I'm sorry, the Slovenian Congo in Leopold II's way. with the Prime Minister in charge, if not the only role. The March of Freedoms is this government, this government coalition has greatly and anti-constitutionally narrowed down. Our recommendations on how to proceed with the process of producing NOO content, as is the case with the vast majority of other self-sufficient members of the EU, have been quite arrogantly rejected by the ruling coalition at its home-work body meeting. So what have we done to the proponents of rejected recommendations in the past four, five months? In cooperation with a wide range of stakeholders, we thought of the development of Slovenia. We thought that we should go beyond the divider, who is obedient, receptive to the current government's visa and then get something. They mean what I call money making money, and then they usually cut it out in contributions, or, if you prefer, a multiplier or, as it is taught, a financial lever of these funds. They also realized that most of the NOO-money would have to be returned. 3.6 divided by 5.2 is 0.6923; in short, 70 % of these funds are recoverable. My colleagues and I will discuss this more about the content of the session itself, but we have already presented matters in a large way, unlike the government. Personally, I believe or believe that we must seek a new infrastructure of solidarity, in particular in another and different economy, in the conditions of the infrastructure that such an economy will need, as I quote once again: “Health and health, the domestic mind of young people.” Health, solidarity, the environment and, of course, economic and technological development are key thematic anchors not only of our thinking, they are key thematic centres and anchors, if we look back, both across the EU and around the world. It is enough to look at Draghi's government in Italy, where their coalition essentially fell apart on this document because they realized that we cannot build and think with the cheap populism of future development. Follow two more quotes. From this microphone here, where Comrade Zorčič sits, someone often said that “democracy is also the art of self-restraint”. Comrade Milan Brglez, former President of the National Assembly and current European Member. And another quote, I quote: “We must do everything in our power to make things better. I have already found that I cannot change the world, but I can change my perception and my behavior." Our former colleague, former minister, former president of one of the parties of the current coalition – colleague Ludmila Novak. I think these are two good recommendations, good travelers for the debate that I hope we will have today. Since it is not a question of the left versus the right, it is not a question of the theory of versus the practice as Montenegro wanted to rub me. If you are criminally responsible for a European project worth 28.6 million, from which both the Ljubljana Cavalier and the new Zagreb tram have come up; my colleague Zvone or Zvonko, I also welcome your mother, I think I may be more practical than many theorists of this government. It is not our versus your money; it is an opinion of development in an open society versus not exactly a developmental approach in the way of enemies, as Karl Popper would say. Now I know what kind of tweet will follow from the basement. These are children who will pay off the 60-year-old state bond. It's a new social contract. Enoumje, which is often captured by this government already within itself, is the last story – European prosecutors, Mrs Kozlovich; it is only beyond that. And its supporting coalition of SNS and most Desus, including not the right way to a new social contract, to a new model for the development of Slovenia. I would like today to have 9 hours to talk about future developments, about a new social contract; but not like what we experience too often, two old spouses who should have separated 20 years ago, we drag back, what no one ever did, what someone said, what they didn't say, and we turn it around. I would like, on behalf of the applicants, not to talk in empty urban areas, but the industrial revolution so much, whether we are digital or not. It's more of a slammer than a serious conversation. I want us to think about something that is called – back to mastery; also political mastery. Those of you who are familiar with the theory and practice of development models, you know I quote Sennett. Why? Because otherwise, we'll be working on technical assistance. There is no task and there is no role and the desire of us candidates as you are trying to show in the current government that we are suing something in Brussels. They're not stupid people, they see what time it is. I said some of the biggest kicks of this fat guy in a closed session, and maybe it was even better if I said that on behalf of the proposer there. In short, today is the time to show and prove that we are aware of our primary mission, today is the time to show that the public use of the mind is the heart of politics, today is the time to bury some axes and accept criticism in an open society. Not that the minister says, "Oh, this document of yours, if it's just so many pages, you copied it from Janša, up and down. And we have deadlines in this country. A great deal of what the minister was saying there should have been – in our own words – concrete — 15 or 20 years ago, but we did not. But now to say who's to blame, who's not to blame, who's not to blame, is why people don't actually pay us. Change is not the same development, it is not the same progress, it is not the same prosperity. That's what I was saying when I had all my hair on my head as a young assistant in social development indicators. The change is also worse than we are currently experiencing. Development can also be negative. Progress can only be progress for the electorate, not prosperity for all that is essentially our constitutional duty. Of course, I want or we want every Slovenian village to have a swimming pool, as some of you have mentioned. I'd rather see this pool as some sort of self-cleaning mess being built by Slovenian companies. But we must first make a model of development that will fill the cash registers that will allow it. But not in a way - once we'll be one at the trough, the other one; and then one will get one, and 99 will be short. This isn't a development. I look forward to today's debate, but I'm not crazy optimistic about it. I will also present to my colleague Montenegro a summary, as it is said in my mother's language, of the brief content of our proposal. In public, we also had concerns and suggestions from someone else, esteemed Professor Dark and his colleague from Umar, who is after all a body to help the government. We also had serious concerns about the current government proposal by certain analysts of the Fiscal Council. And, of course, any government must be able to accept criticism. And as John John Janša said - our wealth are people, our wealth is our own mind. And the last person who can act like a houdre is a Member or a Member of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u3	Thank you very much. At its 99th meeting, on 26 February 2021, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered the working body as a parent. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. At its 99th meeting, on 26 February 2021, the European Union Committee of Affairs considered the proposal for a recommendation on the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, signed by Dr. France Trčko, in a request for a ministerial meeting of 17 February 2021. On behalf of the proposers, a further explanation was given to the proposal for a recommendation by the Member of the Committee. Franz Duck, Nick Prebil and Luke Moon. In the introduction, the Member of Parliament is Dr. Mr Trček pointed out that they had requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a view to presenting to the Government the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. In doing so, he highlighted some plans for the resilience and recovery of other countries which are accessible to the public, short and clearly understandable. He also briefly presented an alternative national recovery and resilience plan drawn up by the KUL Coalition and five points of the proposal's recommendations. Ambassador Nik Prebil stressed that the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly points to their commitment to our country. He highlighted the importance of the Recovery and Resistance Plan for future generations. He drew attention to the objectives of the European Union – a green, digital, resilient European Union. Ambassador Luka Mesec presented some of the guidelines of the government's recovery and resilience plan, which do not follow EU guidelines for smart, digital and circular transition. He highlighted the importance of the recovery and resilience plan, since it represents as many as five state budgets from the point of view of investment. On behalf of the Government, Minister Zvonko Černač initially responded to some of the views of the proponents, who he believes are mostly manipulation, deception or even lies. He thus falsely claimed that the draft national recovery and resistance plan had been rejected twice by the European Commission. In addition, he stressed that dialogue and active coordination between the Government and the European Commission are ongoing at technical level, as the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is administratively and technically very difficult. The Minister rejected the argument that the Government did not allow an appropriate public debate on the Roadmap for Resistance and Recovery and presented the precise timetable for the preparation of the draft plan. He also stressed that Slovenia has adopted a number of strategic documents for the long-term development of the country, which have been taken as fully as possible into account in the preparation of the draft plan. The Minister further presents the priority areas of the REACT-EU mechanism, which are economy, health, social, security and education. In particular, the areas of health, social protection and long-term care have been the most neglected in the last 12 years, and action needs to be taken quickly. In the debate, MEPs and Members expressed different opinions and views, criticisms, praises, proposals and suggestions on the draft Recovery and Resistance Plan. Among them, it was pointed out that the current European projects were too fragmented, that the draft Plan for Resistance and Recovery, the government's consultations with stakeholders on the preparation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan were not very substantive and that there was no need for dialogue, so that the government would have to engage with the other Member States in tandem and, together with them, move the European Commission to formally submit the plan for at least 15 May. That the draft plan through a legal and structured public debate is a less fragmented document, as there has not been a serious substantive debate at all. To achieve the widest possible consensus in the design of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. In the closing act, Minister Zvonko Černač thanked the Members and Members for their debate. The last word was given by Dr. Mr Třček expressed his satisfaction that Minister Zvonko Černač had taken such a calm and reconciliation tone in his response to the debate of Members and Members. Following the discussion, the Committee voted in accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all points of the proposal for a recommendation and did not adopt them. Seven votes in favour, nine against. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. In 2009, the Chairman of the Committee noted that the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, EPA 1684-VIII, had been completed on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Minister Zvonko Černač, Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u6	Dear President of the National Assembly, esteemed former colleagues and colleagues, everyone else is present! Dearly respected representative of the proposer to France! Let me also start with one quote: “Here, this is the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which has, of course, been negatively assessed twice on the European Commission.” Luka Mesec at the press conference of candidates on February 17th this year. A regulation allowing the investment of plans entered into force two days later, on 19 February this year. Thus, two days before the implementation of the Regulation, on the basis of which plans can be submitted for confirmation to the European Commission, the Slovenian plan has already been rejected twice by the European Commission, according to Luke Mesca. You have to think, Your Honor, what an update the European Commission is. Two days before the plans could even be invested in the procedure, to date no one has been invested, two days earlier the European Commission rejected Slovenian; twice, not only once. But it was only the finale of manipulations, non-realitys, lies that started in October about the Recovery and Resistance Plan, with the statement of the President of the Social Democrats, European Ambassador Tanja Fajon on October 14th, where she expressed concern about our plan because it did not show him the best. He followed a very quick response, a day later, 15. 10. Dnevnik published an extensive contribution on how the Slovenian plans are poor, announced, the value of the projects significantly exceeds the EUR 5.2 billion framework and so on. It is also interesting to note that the draft national plan for the recovery and strengthening of resistance to the competent Directorate of the European Commission in informal coordination was not submitted for informal treatment until four days later, this is 19 days later. 10 last year. 19. 10 last year, four days after this article was published. According to our ultra-target media, the European Commission has issued a negative assessment before officials received a draft document for informal coordination. Of course, all these lies, untruths, manipulations have been repeatedly denied, as repeated lies, as a true proverb, have become truth, reporting in this style has continued all the following months to this day. Until today. However, the fact is that to date no Member State has submitted a national plan to the formal certification procedure for the European Commission, which, as I said, was only possible by the application of the Regulation on 19 February this year. However, the funds from the Recovery Fund can only be released or made available after all Member States have adopted or approved a decision on the provision of their own resources. By yesterday, only eight countries had done so. Slovenia is among them. This decision was already taken by the Government a month ago, on 28 January of this year. However, since 19 October last year intensive discussions with representatives of the various Directorates of the European Commission with the aim of putting in the formal procedure a document which will be substantively consistent and, above all, technically flawless. These coordinations have been more than 20 so far, and there will be at least ten more in this and next month, at the level of the Office of the various Directorates of the European Commission and of course the various ministries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government responded very quickly with regard to the preparation of the plan. It's been 24 years. 7. Thus, three days after the resolution of the recovery mechanism, she appointed two groups, one at the level of the Prime Minister of the Government, the other operationally led by the State Secretary at the SVRK, in which representatives of ministries and other members were involved in the technical preparation of the document. The SVRK therefore coordinates the preparation of this document. And don't worry, the process will be completed in a timely and successful manner. There are and will be real priorities, with at least 57% of the funds already targeted under the regulation. The regulation obliges us to devote at least 37% to the area of green transition and at least 20% to digitisation. Of course, it must be said that only with the adoption of the regulation has it become definitively clear what green means for Europe. The Annex is a table setting out the percentage of contributions to green and digital; therefore, the individual content will have to be adjusted, because nothing helps if, in a healthy farm, the sewage and cleaning plant is a 100 % contribution to green. Following this table, this contribution is only 40%. For this reason, the plan will change further, and in some parts it will be essential. This was also one of the reasons why this material was of an internal nature, and thus would have remained until the conclusion of the preparation and adoption of the Government if one of the weeks had not illegally published the plan with all three annexes. For this reason, last week I withdrew the mark INTERNO because the material, in an illegal way, has already become publicly available. As of 23 December last year, you were able to look at all the material you wanted in the National Assembly. We discussed the plan for the first time on the parental committee on 29 January this year and again last week in preparation for this meeting, where the recommendations of the applicants were rejected. However, the fact that the material was up to a recent internal level does not mean that there was no public debate on it. The EU funds website has published a content framework, programming priorities, reforms, main objectives and a framework cut. Similar to Twitter and the SVRK Facebook account. More than 2 000 individuals participated in the discussions that we organised with the various stakeholders, and there was no limit to the possibility of discussion. None. Most of the questions concerned the question of how resources from the mechanism would be allocated to the final beneficiaries, particularly where projects to be implemented at local level are concerned; and the question of a combination of resources from different funds. Mayors, directors of regional development agencies, members of the State Council, representatives of development regions at NUTS 3 and NUTS 2 levels, economists, representatives of the Economic and Social Council, representatives of NGOs participated in this exchange of views over the past months. Because of the situation, of course, most of the conversations were done virtually or remotely. In November, 452 participants took part in an exchange of views with the Councils and Development Councils of all 12 development regions. You know, however, that the developmental councils of the regions are composed of representatives of local authorities, economies and NGOs. There was no such broad debate in any of the other Member States. However, given that formal conditions are met, there would be sufficient debate in this process on the operational programme monitoring committee carried out in October, as representatives of ministries, local authorities, non-governmental organisations, youth, economic associations, representatives of workers and trade unions, as well as non-governmental organisations, participate in this committee. With regard to the substantive framework of the plan, it should be said that it is only part of the historic agreement reached on 21 July last year. At the start of the negotiations on 17 July last year, Slovenia was threatened with a huge loss of funds. On the table was the 2018 proposal, which envisioned a fourfold decline in funds for the Western cohesion region. Finally, Prime Minister Janez Janša and his team reached an agreement that increased Slovenia's funds by almost half billion euros – 350 million for the Western cohesion region and 82 million for agricultural policy. Thus, in the next financial perspective, Slovenia not only maintains the situation from the past, which was also negotiated by then by Prime Minister Janez Janša in February 2012, but even improved by the Fund for a Fair Transition, particularly in the area of the Eastern Cohesion Region. When we talk about the 12 billion that will be available to Slovenia in the next nine years, it is necessary to know that they represent the grants of the recovery fund we are talking about in this plan, only a small part of the grants and that the purposes of spending the other funds are set out in other programmes, not in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. So in all the other programmes, where the funds from the current financial perspective that we need to draw up by the end of 2023, out of 8.4 billion grants are only 1.6 billion in the recovery and resilience plan. Everything else is the means of other programming frameworks, which, of course, run according to the relevant formal bases governing the way in which these funds are used. So we have about a billion and a half from the current financial perspective, in the area of agricultural policy 1.6 billion grants, the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 3.2 billion non-refundable, i.e. twice as irreversible in the plan we are talking about today; twice as much. And, of course, 3.6 billion – the possibility of borrowing loans, which at the moment do not represent any important options for the Republic of Slovenia, given that you know that it has extremely good ratings and is indebted to international markets at a negative rate. And one part of this REACT initiative, which is part of this mechanism, but has already been approved in the context of the amendment of the operational programme, and we are already implementing it, €330 million, here is mainly about investments in the systems that are undernutrition, and decisions on support for investment in health, home care and everyone else have started to be signed. The plan, of course, allocates resources to green transition, digital transformation of the economy, the public sector, which means around 60% of the available resources, and the other 40 to support the economy, particularly tourism, entrepreneurship, innovation, research and development, innovation, knowledge or education, further, health, social services, in particular long-term care and strengthening the construction of rental apartments, especially for young people, as well as provided housing for the older population. Of course, reforms are the basis for using these funds, where they are key in the fields of education, the labour market, demobilization, health care, social services, in particular long-term care and ensuring the stability of the pension system, where the first step is the establishment of the demographic fund. It must also be said that this good and rapid political agreement on 21 July was unfortunately not followed by a rapid and uncomplicated administrative procedure last year, so it is not surprising to criticise the operationalisation of performances coming from most of the Member States and, above all, from the Member States most affected by the crisis. For example, France has seen a significantly higher economic growth decline in last year than Slovenia, so it is not surprising that the French Minister of Finance made a statement, which the course of confirming the national plans commented with a sentence – too slowly and too complicated. Although we have been in crisis for a year now, it must be said that not a single cent of this mechanism has been operational so far. The countries themselves have made decisions and helped people and the economy. Slovenia has so far earmarked almost EUR 3 billion or almost twice as much as will be available from the Recovery and Resistance Fund. Over eight PKPs have been preserved to tens of thousands of jobs and financial support to people and the economy will enable a faster exit from the crisis once the situation is normalised. And for this reason, the GDP decline last year was about a quarter lower than predicted – 5.2%, which is at all other impulses – recorded in the last days of the employment increase by more than 6 000, that is even a reduction in unemployment in February – an appropriate basis for faster economic growth in the future. For example, this year's budget envisages the use of twice as much European funds as in the previous year. In most cases, this is a specific investment, which will be an additional contribution or an incentive to economic growth. The recovery and resilience plan is not so important in the financial sense, as it will not be operational until the end of the year or the following, according to the dynamics in which this certification is taking place. From this it represents what is essential, but the reform part of the reform that should have been implemented long ago has always been delayed. If we are concrete about how to take these proposals seriously, if you break the first of the reforms that emerges through the law on the establishment of the demographic fund, you are doing direct harm to people. The demographic fund represents the first step in ensuring long-term stability of the pension fund, and the effects of the assets that people have created over the years must also be returned to people through the instruments of the demographic fund. With respect to your alternative plan on 20 pages. I don't think it's an alternative plan; it's a piranha move mainly by the SD party, you've copied something, for example, both infectious clinics, homes for the elderly, apartments, some from statements by the Prime Minister, 12 nursing hospitals in all regions, some general statements. What concerns is the financial framework for approximately the same content – 14.8 billion, of which more than 8 billion loans, is 2.5 times the amount envisaged in the plan. We know these scenarios from the past. I do not think Slovenia wants them; and we will not repeat them. The essential difference, respected, between the views of the government, the coalition and the views of the opposition parties who convened this meeting is the view of things. You look from the top down, you see billions, you see millions, and then you look at the end of the euro. We look the other way, we look from the bottom up. We see the euro, then millions and billions. You do not wonder whether and how we will devote these resources to people, how these resources will change the position of an individual. The government and the coalition, however, have in mind what will happen to the student, the worker, the nurse, the patient, the pensioner and many others, and better. Therefore, our priorities are where added value is given to people in all areas of life and work. So, apart from the general beauty of the historical opportunity and the strategic view in practice, you actually undermine everything that needs to be done within the framework of the plan in the coming years. The demographic fund has started to collapse and it is obvious that this path will continue in other reforms. The program will be completed. In some parts, it's essential, but not with suggestions that won't do people any good. And there's something else that makes us different. When you talk about grants as a gift falling out of the sky, we talk about the means that are truly irreparable, coming from people through such and different taxes, so people also need to be reimbursed through better services and equal starting options for all. Dearly beloved, the government will take into account all the formal conditions laid down in the Regulation and all the good proposals that go for the benefit of the people when confirming the plan. The content will be based on the principle that the plan must be for the benefit of the people and that no part of Slovenia will be neglected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! After successfully dealing with the Corona virus epidemic, we will have to start building a story again. Fortunately, we are part of a large, larger structure called the European Union. This gives us the appropriate guidelines to help us with successful recovery in conjunction with other Member States. If this epidemic has taught us anything, it is that we have taken many things — relative stability of the economy, peace, health, health care, education, and, of course, social life. In order to prevent the spread of infections, our country, like most others, has adopted certain restrictions. Not all measures have been good, but it is often better to take a step further than to regret the consequences. The same applies to the recovery plan after the epidemic. In the text under consideration, we can read that one of the biggest and weakest apples of the dispute is the fact that the current government has not publicly disclosed the draft plan since the beginning of the preparation, but we must admit that the drafts of most plans are being prepared first in a closed circle; only then are others invited to give such a fresh look. We have no doubt that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will include in its final plan a number of proposals which we can read in the text under consideration. It is not right for you to reject everything that is from the other, and you call yours the only and unmistakable matter. The final plan should be a synthesis of all proposals, as it will eventually fall on the shoulders of the next government, in whatever form it will already be. When reading the proposal for a recommendation on the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we gave particular attention to the second pillar of solidarity in the Desus Group. We have warned that, in addition to certain populist proposals, there are also certain cases that we cannot somehow count as solidarity. I have to mention here the abolition of the 3.6% backlog of pension coordination in 2021. Let me tell everyone in this place once again that the pension is not solidarity, but it is the money of the pensioners earned by hard work. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we do not think it appropriate to state that this harmonisation would be solidarity. This is the elimination of the injustices that have remained due to the misalignment of past years. We have already worked in the Desus Group in the past on the complete elimination of these injustices, but by then we received an extremely negative relationship, first conditionalisation and then a proposal for nominal harmonisation, which was rejected virtually by all stakeholders. Finally, an extraordinary 2% harmonisation without conditions of economic growth was proposed and implemented thanks to our parliamentary group. In the Group of Members, we will continue to work to ensure that the remaining backlog of 3.6% is eliminated as soon as possible and without conditions. Even widows and peasants are by no means solidarity and must be settled as soon as possible, whether in the Recovery and Resistance Plan or otherwise. At this point, however, the proposal for free urban transport of pensioners should also be highlighted. In the Desus Group, we are always disturbed by the belief that pensioners are only in the city. No, they're not just in the city, they're also in the villages. It would be good to arrange free transport for pensioners wherever infrastructure allows. There was also much to be said about long - term care in both texts. Given the negative demographic trend, tectonic movement should be made as soon as possible. Long-term care and funding is the sour apple of the last few governments and in the Desus Group we are pleased to find its place in both text plans. I would like to conclude by expressing the hope that today's debate will be constructive. Today, we are not here to raise opinion on public opinion research with populist proposals and insults from fellow Members. I therefore appeal to everyone to maintain the level of cultural dialogue. We believe that there will also be a lot of excellent proposals in the face of our opinions, which will find their place in the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u10	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, we can point out that the European Union is one of the most affected areas in the world due to the covida-19 pandemic. The greatest impact of covida-19 is felt by the economy of the European Union. The European Union's economy is among the most affected in the world due to covid-19. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that this is one of the most important documents and arrangements in the history of the European Union. The Recovery and Resistance Fund will allow the European Union to maintain a functioning economy and protect jobs so that the European Union economy can regain the strength that the European Union economy once had. At the same time, I would point out that Lufthansa’s current market capitalisation is little more than EUR 5 billion and that the market capitalisation of the Chinese digital company Zoom is more than EUR 120 billion at a given time. Slovenia will be able to use up to €5.2 billion to make investments under the Recovery and Resistance Plan by the end of 2026, from up to € 1.6 billion in grants and up to €3.6 billion in repayments. In the coming months, the European Commission, which manages centrally through the Recovery and Resistance Fund, will identify reforms and investments in recovery and resilience plans and confirm investments to the value of available resources. The deadline for the submission of the Roadmap for Resistance and Recovery is late in April. In line with the European Commission's orientation, the resilience and recovery plans must support long-term reforms, investments, in particular in green and digital technologies, with a lasting impact on the productivity and resilience of the economy. Investments envisaged must ensure the resilience of the health system and the long-term care system, mitigate the socio-economic consequences of covida-19 epidemics and support strategic investments for green and digital transitions. The Stability and Recovery Plan will include key strategic state projects, while remaining projects of local communities, businesses and other beneficiaries will be selected for most of the public tendering or through other measures. In line with the proposal for a Regulation establishing mechanisms for recovery and resilience, it will be necessary to report annually to the European Commission on the progress made in the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, to monitor implementation through targets and milestones and to send a request for payment or tranches to the European Commission in the case of loans. The European Commission will release funds for individual actions and projects once the milestones are reached. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will do its utmost to make the most of the resources available and will have the greatest possible multiplier effect on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft Recovery and Resistance Plan shows that Slovenia will promote investment for the digital transformation of the economy and societies. The priorities of Slovenia are digitisation, environmental protection measures, productivity enhancement, labour market improvement and improvement of the educational, health and social system. The draft Recovery and Resistance Plan is based on interlinked reforms of education, the labour market, debirocratisation, health care, the pension system and the long-term care system, as only then will the related and related projects of the Recovery and Resistance Plan bring the desired effects. The five priority areas Slovenia has set itself up are: green Slovenia, digital Slovenia, business and innovative Slovenia, responsible Slovenia and smart Slovenia. The opposition's views on the Recovery and Resistance Plan are, in our view, mostly manipulation and deception. We can therefore assess, as well as the unrealistic claim, that the draft Recovery and Resistance Plan has been rejected twice by the European Commission. This was repeatedly stressed by Minister Cernač, but the media do not report it at all. It should also be stressed that dialogue and active coordination between the Government and the European Commission are ongoing at technical level, as the preparation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan is administratively and technically very difficult. We also reject the Government's failure to provide an adequate public debate on the Recovery and Resistance Plan and to present a precise timetable for the preparation of the draft Recovery and Resistance Plan covering all the dates of the talks with representatives of local communities, the Economic and Social Council, the economy, NGOs and other stakeholders. It should be noted, however, that more than 2 thousand stakeholders were involved in the preparation process of the draft Recovery and Resistance Plan, which presented the starting points for the preparation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. It should also be pointed out that the European Union Committee on Affairs considered the draft plan one month ago. A constructive debate took place on the Committee, which included opinions from different stakeholders. It should also be stressed that the practice of the majority of the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union alone in the preparation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan does not involve Parliament. At the same time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we would like to point out that Slovenia is among the first members to ratify decisions on own resources – legislation that allows debt in financial markets and thus financing recovery. So far, only six Member States of the European Union have done this. In addition to Slovenia, these are Cyprus, Croatia, Portugal, France and Bulgaria. Ratification of this legislation is necessary in order for the Commission to be in charge and for countries to be able to obtain money. While the Portuguese Presidency still hopes that the ratification process will be completed by the end of April. At the conclusion of the position of the SDS Group, we would like to highlight the following. Slovenia has really negotiated well that more resources are available than it has been in recent years. In the SDS Group, we believe that the current government, the current coalition, will also be successful in their use. By 2026, the challenge will be to draw up a plan that will be ambitious enough but at the same time feasible. The drafters of the plan should also consider how to introduce structural reforms into the plan, so that Slovenia can propose in its plan such projects and measures to help restore the economy after the crisis, as well as structural reforms aimed at resolving the development backlog. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we particularly warn and hope that there will be no additional administrative obstacles that could make it difficult, perhaps even endangering the use of funds that are important for reconstruction and development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that the drafters of the Recovery and Resistance Plan will meet the administrative and technical requirements of the European Commission and that the Recovery and Resistance Plan will be ready in time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to the European Commission that it take sufficient time for the review plans, if necessary, to harmonise them for the Member States. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also propose to the European Commission that it decide on the plans for the reconstruction and development of individual members of the European Union in a package rather than individually. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose that the preparation process of the Recovery and Resistance Plan be successfully completed by responsible conduct of all involved, taking into account the maximum that no one is left behind and that no part of Slovenia will be forgotten.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the LMŠ Group, we don't care what our future will be, and we don't care what the future of all the younger generations will be. We are concerned about the quality of our lives, what happens to the economy, how our companies will develop and what will be the development of us as societies. These are also the main reasons why my opposition colleagues and I have drawn up a proposal for a recommendation on the preparation of a national recovery and resilience plan. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan in the LMŠ presents ourselves as a set of projects that follow our development priorities, the priorities of the European Union that our country should follow, if, of course, we want to achieve these common objectives in a wider community, of which we are part. The plan should not only be based on the use of the financial resources available to us today and with which I hope we will contribute to the recovery and further development of the Slovenian economy, but should also outline new guidelines for the development of Slovenian society for the next decade. At least that's how we want to be in the LMSH Group. Over the last few years, in Europe and the world in general, the awareness of the importance of the transition to a green and digital area. The covida-19 crisis only highlighted the importance of digitisation and green environmental initiatives, with a focus on solidarity between both environmental and climate partnerships, the circular economy and mobility. The possibility and need for digitisation of processes that have so far been considered classic has proved crucial both in distance learning and in the organisation of work that we have done exclusively in the company's office. For our future, for our existence and for the reduction of the consequences of climate change, it is not only a matter of setting ambitious goals, but in particular the fact that we are starting to achieve these objectives. One such area is the circular economy, which is one of the foundations of development change, as a modern and development-oriented society requires. All society, political and economic actors, professional and lay public, citizens and citizens must play an important role in the transition to digital and green Slovenia. We can list everything with our knowledge, we can contribute to innovation to raising the quality of stay and to this associated increase in added value that we like to talk about. Let's take a look at the government plan. This is mainly based on the already well-known and relatively safe area of development of Slovenia, namely infrastructure. We do not oppose it and it is certainly necessary, but with this weakness that government proposals do not deviate from what has been known so far. In the opposition, on the other hand, we believe that they need to be radically complemented and upgraded and covered the full spectrum of sustainable mobility. I repeat. The government is offering a well-known approach, this is development, if I say so, of road and primary infrastructure; we would like to give priority to sustainable mobility. Unfortunately, the government road infrastructure plan provides twice as much funding as sustainable and rail. Let me do it again. These are decisions that will mark and outline the development of Slovenia for the next decade. And that's why you're too quick to make decisions, and you shouldn't be allowed to make mistakes about this today. It is therefore our view that the government plan should give greater weight to structural reforms, to softer content, especially to people and employees who can contribute to green and smart businesses through innovation and the promotion of new technologies. Let us not forget, Slovenia is among the Member States of the European Union at the very top after the development of robotics and artificial intelligence. This means that Slovenia has the potential to penetrate among the most developed countries of the European Union. We just have to hope to direct our economy in the right direction and give ourselves a chance to give new direction to development. We should not afford to wander on the spot and seek only short-term and loving solutions. In our view, the inclusion of more financial resources is also essential in the design of the plan. The President of the European Commission accompanied the plan with the words: National plans must be based on pooling wisdom and solidarity. In our view, this is only to a lesser extent reflected in the government plan. On the contrary, we believe that the alternative plan that we have drawn up in the opposition presents 218 projects where we have highlighted synergies between several resources, namely the long-term budget of the European Union, additional resources under the Next Generation European Union instrument, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and also the lending possibilities of the European Investment Bank. Our recovery and resistance plan is based on four pillars. These are health, development, environment and solidarity. Two-thirds of the funding in the plan is for green and digital reforms. Such are not only the expectations of Brussels, but, I believe, also the expectations of younger generations and generations behind them. On 22 January this year, the European Commission prepared new guidelines, which are an opportunity for the government to examine the well-intentioned proposals contained in the alternative opposition plan and to include them in the final document and the text of the national plan. For further consideration, let me stress to the Government that there is also a European Commission guidance document in preparation, which will foresee a way to apply the so-called principle – do not harm. Perhaps these could be the kind of stimulators that the government could still find the courage to move away from the projects already planned, which in themselves are not ambitious enough. Once again, we hope that in the plan you will give priority in particular to sustainable mobility, to materials less harmful than plastic, and to energy resources that are more carbon neutral and environmentally friendly than those we use today. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the way or procedure in which the national plan is drawn up. A mature and responsible policy knows and understands that it is essential to include in the creation of such an important document all the available knowledge that the company is overcoming, particularly in its expertise in various fields and all other key groups that have so far not had the opportunity to participate and influence in the definition of content and have not had the opportunity to influence development priorities in both financial and time terms. We are convinced that only on the basis of expert opinions and professional decisions could the government cover such development guidelines as would lead Slovenia in an advanced, green and modern direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Behind us is the experience of the crisis, a partial uncertainty. We must therefore prepare Slovenia for recovery and lay the foundations for the challenges of the future. We need to look soberly and realistically at what works and what does not work in our society and how we will achieve our strategic goals. Dialogue between relevant stakeholders as an important value of our society should be stronger today than ever before. Such dialogue would allow for better exploitation of development potentials and a fairer burden sharing from the crisis. It would allow for the construction of a majority around a group of visions and common goals. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan should constitute such an agreement, such a social contract, through which we would ensure access to European funds under the Recovery and Resistance Instrument. It should follow the primary interest of strengthening public systems, public infrastructure and the economy; above all, it should be an opportunity for Slovenia to return its focus to people after a year. And this government created a spasm, a new crisis. It has created a crisis of values and has brought down the country's trust in each other. What the Social Democrats demand today in the National Assembly is transparency, competence and will. Not empty promises and calls for cooperation that are not based on basic democratic rules. Not when, for the right simply to discuss the strategic future of our country, we are struggling with the convening of extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. The Government has decided that partial, individual, party or sector interests are stronger than public interests and to the last, it has prohibited access to the plan. She only decided to withdraw her secrecy when she was forced to do so. The 30-day period within which we should decide on our request has expired; otherwise, we would have achieved this by continuing the procedure with the information officer. There are no real and legitimate reasons why the secrecy of these documents would be justified. That way you just hide everything you want from the public. Social Democrats are convinced that this is a document that goes beyond the mandate of one government and one national assembly majority by its nature, its content and its scope, and therefore it is essential that we discuss this transparently and make recommendations to the Government. The financial framework of the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan provides for an amount of resources that can be compared to half of the national budget. With regard to the type of risks, we note the prevention of corruption risks and the prudence of public spending. We have always followed the recommendations of the European Commission and called for public debate with civil society, with social partners, universities, local communities, potential actors and project operators. After all, we are aware that only through the active application of enterprises, regions, municipalities and cities to individual programmes will we be able to make full use of all the resources available by 2027. We can do this by including all creativity, all the knowledge, work and energy of our people. As early as December last year, the Social Democrats presented a crisis exit strategy and a development momentum; they further upgraded this document with the opposition partners into an alternative recovery and resilience plan. Through four pillars – health, solidarity, environment and development – and 218 major projects we have included in the multiplier effect of all available resources and from € 1.6 billion of non-refundable resources we have created leverage of almost €15 billion. This is a smart integrated planning approach that allows the optimal realization of all the key development, environmental, social and health priorities of our society. Unfortunately, however, the government will use the same logic of unlimited division as it has in all the laws of the CAP to use a single financial incentive to solve partial problems instead of creating conditions for advance. If the government's approach is announced, Slovenia will have the most beautiful circulars in the world, but fragile foundations for future development and the continued vulnerability of society, jobs and public services. Instead of a government list of concrete projects, we are talking about stronger measures to financially and organisationally strengthen public health, addressing the challenge of an ageing society with solutions in the area of long-term care and social security, with more available means for new rental apartments for young people, kindergartens and schools. Instead of the government greenwashing with projects, we are clearly accelerating the green transition. We are investing in science with breakthrough projects such as NUK 2 and the Centre for New Technologies, investing in innovation for economic growth. A growth that will create benefits for all. The Group of the Social Democrats therefore stands today for all recommendations concerning the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, as stated in the reference. If you've already realized the first one, follow the others. Remove this partial list of wishes on the eight hundredth pages and take into your hands the opposition proposal of the plan. Undoubtedly, this is a better basis for meeting the criteria of the European Commission and at home we will reach an important consensus of all key stakeholders. There won't be another chance. Europe has already understood, and that must be understood by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, secretary of state! In order to limit the economic and social damage caused by the Corona virus epidemic, the leaders of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Parliament agreed on an economic recovery plan that will enable the recovery of the crisis and lay the foundations for a modern and more sustainable Europe. This led to the adoption last July of the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027 and the Instrument for Recovery and Resistance. This is the largest package of incentives that has ever been financed from the European Union budget. Together, more than EUR 1,000 800 billion will help to restore Europe after the epidemic and to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the epidemic; finally, these resources will ensure that the European economy and society are more sustainable, more resilient and better prepared for future challenges. Slovenia has negotiated an outstanding development framework for European financing. On the timeline until 2029, € 10.2 billion will be eligible, of which €6.6 billion is grants and €3.6 billion is loans. The agreement therefore provides extensive additional funding for Slovenia, which will help us recover from the covida-19 crisis and encourage investment in the green and digital transition. EU Member States must now draw up their national recovery and resilience plans and provide them with access to funds under the recovery instrument. Our country has also been preparing a detailed national recovery and resilience plan for months, which sets out reforms and public investment projects supported by the recovery and resilience mechanism. In line with the European Commission's guidelines and recommendations, the national plan takes into account all the reform and investment guidelines, including the requirement that at least 37% of the funds be allocated to climate targets and at least 20% of the funds be allocated to digital transitions. The principle that no measure should have a significant impact on the environment is also taken into account. In this context, in the SMC Group, we stress that the European Commission must also listen to the different needs of the Member States, who know best which sector and area have been most affected and which measures will be most effective in the recovery and resilience process in each country. Slovenia will be able to finance the measures implemented between February 2020 and August 2026 by means of a recovery plan totalling EUR 5.2 billion. So it's back, too. A maximum of €2.2 billion is foreseen for sustainable and green transition projects, about €300 million is envisaged for strengthening the business support environment, about € half billion for the digitisation of Slovenia and for education and skills development projects, about €300 million for improving the health system and social protection and long-term care, and 340 million for tourism and culture. The Slovenian Recovery Plan, which is publicly accessible to all, is based on a list of 187 projects of strategic importance adopted by the Government in June 2020, including the construction and renovation of clinics, regional and nursing hospitals and health homes, major investments on the railway network and digitisation, energy renovation of public buildings and the construction of rental homes and homes for older citizens. In addition, smaller projects of local communities, businesses and other beneficiaries will be largely selected on calls for proposals or through other measures. The Slovenian Recovery Plan covers three strategic objectives. Firstly, ensure a better and more robust healthcare system and long-term care system. Second, to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. Thirdly, support for green and digital transition, creating an enabling business environment and reducing administrative burdens. The plan addresses the most pressing issues in Slovenia and foresees several development areas, or priorities, where available funds would be invested. One key priority is investing in the health system, social protection and long-term care. Health upgrades will be adequately supported by a number of investments such as senior citizens' homes, health infrastructure, maintenance and promotion of employment in the healthcare system, in particular first jobs for young people, and so on. We are aware that in order for our country to recover rapidly after the epidemic, additional capital and new investments with European and domestic resources must be provided to the health sector. This is why the construction of new infectory clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor is planned in the future, a replacement building of the building of the Department of Infectious Diseases in the UKC Maribor, building of nursing hospitals in all regions throughout Slovenia. In some regions, the existing ones will be transformed into nursing and construction of new regional hospitals. New homes of older citizens will be built and existing homes modernised; along with human resources reinforcements. This will significantly increase the capacity in the healthcare system, at points where they are too small or where additional reserves have proved to be needed. It should be pointed out that the contents of the recovery plan have been widely exchanged over the past months with more than 2 000 stakeholders. Several meetings were attended by mayors, directors of regional development agencies, members of the development councils of all twelve development regions, members of the councils of the two cohesion regions. The plan has been discussed several times in the Economic and Social Council, with numerous stakeholders from the economy, NGOs and others. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the recovery plan is an extremely important content document and a financially extensive document that will significantly mark the development path of our country and its citizens and citizens over the next decade. We are therefore pleased that the plan follows, above all, the investment in our common green, developmental, social and healthy future, while covering the details of the necessary structural reforms. It is therefore an exceptional opportunity for us to take Slovenia on a sustainable, innovative, solidarity and just society with a smart and ambitious recovery plan. We stress that this is our shared responsibility, which goes beyond just one government's mandate, because it is the most important task of our country in this decade. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also well aware of this, so the preparation of the recovery plan has been undertaken with all seriousness and responsibility. As early as the third day after an agreement was reached at European Union level on the post-epidemic recovery package, the government set up two working groups to prepare a recovery plan. Less than a month later, however, it also confirmed the baselines for the preparation of the plan, which identified the framework content or envisaged areas of development priorities. It is also commendable that Slovenia was among the first members of the European Union to adopt a decision on its own resources, which is the basis of the package, since it is a legal basis to enable the European Commission to be indebted to the financial markets and thus to finance the instrument. To conclude, it is particularly important to highlight the following: the extent of available European funds by the end of this decade can be compared to the value of the entire annual state budget. In substance, however, it represents as many as ten times the normal annual investment expenditure in the national budget. That is why, in the SMC Group, we point out that this project must be undertaken through transparent planning and prudent use of public funds, while avoiding all risks. We believe that we will be able to draw on all available resources, which will enable our country to successfully address future challenges and achieve a higher level of development and prosperity in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u18	Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone! I myself see in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan a major opportunity for Slovenia. The European Commission, and in general the European Union, has taken a historic step in this co-crisis. If, in the previous crisis, a country that did not find itself in financial troubles, but because of the transatlantic financial crisis, has simply left it – find yourself as you know – and therefore had to commit itself insanely to rescue its companies and over-indebted banking systems, it has turned the board around and said – we will help you and we will help you with billions of Euros of grants and interest-free loans. Slovenia therefore has an opportunity in the next six years to practically double its resources allocated to development. In fact, we should not view these 5 billion as just 5 billion, or an amount equal to half of the state budget, but this should be put into perspective. The Slovenian state budget has a difficult one every year when we talk about the central state budget, about 10 billion of which is about one billion for investments, so 5 billion of them stretch for six years, which means that we can double this billion for investments in the next six years, so to speak, each year, which means that development could be more rapid than it was in the next six years. But the prerequisite for that is that we use these funds wisely. I will talk about the use of funds, not drawing, as this kind of ugly word has been caught up in the Slovenian political vocabulary. In fact, the use of funds corresponds to the situation we have had at the level of use of European funds so far, they have been drawn about as water from the cellar – to run through the garden, and it is important that it is no longer in the basement. How this water will be used and what it will do to benefit no one; and that is why the results are as they are. In 2019 we had 1 billion European funds available, 700 million and 70%, which was a good year. The average between 2007 and 2019 was that we used 60% of all available European funds. The way we used them, there's another story again. In Slovenia, 5,000 600 European projects are currently open, which in itself tells you that these funds are fragmented in a hundred and one possible way, that there is no story, no strategy, no national priorities and that they are used a little here, little there, little there, little this circle, little that greenery. This National Recovery and Resistance Plan should intersect with this state, which means the following. Instead of getting 800 pages of projects scratched again by the government, more or less of the projects that have roughly met some of the criteria set out by the European Union and counting on it to draw these funds back through these projects, the water from the basement will be running around the garden; instead, the debate should start backwards. We should start talking about what are national priorities, where we need European funds and what are those activities in Slovenia that we want and must encourage through these means. This debate was not, however, because there was not even a public debate. There was no public debate on the Economic and Social Council, only after the draft was prepared, on 15 October, if I am not mistaken, did a negotiating group set up there, and the social partners only learned what the content of the plan was; however, it was not prepared to discuss the plan and its contents in any way. There was no discussion with civil society. The minister will say that they had a Zoom with 300 people, if I understand correctly the last time. This is not a debate. At Zoom, putting a few hundred people back together means that you've presented this plan a little bit, but you haven't really talked to anyone on the other side. And there was no debate in Parliament either. This document was marked INTERNAL until the recent year and was not a public debate, but the government has also tried to resolve in Parliament the question of how 5 billion European funds will be used, just as little behind closed doors. And the result is what it is. Two drafts were sent to the European Commission, both highly criticised. The Minister will again accuse me of lying, but this has been reported by virtually all Slovenian media in October and February. All the Brussels rapporteurs reported that both drafts had been strongly criticised. And the minister will say that the media is lying, but then the question is why did he answer to the media itself, saying to the Slovenian government, that the European Commission is setting out, quoting, "some senseless formalistic requirements". If these eyewitnesses are completely unrealistic, then why does the minister feel obliged to apologize? And the other inconsistence that came along. At the same time, the SVRK said that the European Commission had not considered any plan, but in the same breath it said that it had been coordinating with European Commission officials on these plans for months. If I draw the line, it is not me, even less the media and even less the European Commission who is lying. Here, in particular, someone is trying very clumsyly to bend from the criticism addressed to him. Mr Minister, in this regard, I ask that you also withdraw your statements or your criticisms addressed to me. Let me go slowly to the content. What's the problem? I'm gonna be pretty plastic here. Under the third government of Janša for the next six years, the Republic of Slovenia has invested €780 million in arms. I gave this number to remember it, because now I'm going to add up a little bit to how much it's going to go into other things. When this law on investing 780 million euros in weapons was found in Parliament, we in Levica warned that these funds are being absorbed into things that are essential to weapons. To health care, to nursing homes, to housing, to railroad construction. And then we received from the government the answer not to worry – although there are no large items in the budget, they are as small as they were in previous years, there is virtually no budget line for the construction of dwellings – because we will already successfully acquire these funds through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from the European Union. Now the numbers in this plan are as follows. The government has applied for 5 billion, of which investment in health will be 200 million and 4% of the total. Investments in homes for the elderly – previously we heard a coalition representative bragging about how many homes for the elderly will be built – investment in homes for the elderly will be for only 100 million and 2% of the funds requested. Investment in apartments will be 185 million, slightly less than 2% of the funds requested; and investment in railways will be about four times less than investment in roads. And if we put this together now – health care, nursing homes, housing, railways in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, only after we put these four things on the pile do we get up to 780 million, which is the same amount as the one the government intends to spend on the state arms budget for the next six years. It is said that for weapons we will give as much in the next six years as we will in the next six years together for investments in health care, nursing homes, housing and railways after this Recovery and Resistance Plan. This is the reality of this plan. And if I move forward. The European Commission, again quoting the Slovenian rapporteurs from Brussels, has made it clear that "there is no story in this plan, there is no priority". And given what I've just pointed out, all we can do is agree. Her second criticism is that this plan should be designed to prepare for the climate crisis; and also here, if we look at the basic figures, we see that the government and its plan fall on the line. The climate crisis is not a joke. For decades, experts have warned that countries around the world are not prepared for the potential outbreak of an epidemic, a potential virus. The governments have overheard it. All in order. And in the end, when the epidemic happened, we saw the drastic consequences it had. For almost a year now, we have had a suspended public life in this country, we have been in a state where almost half of the constitutionally guaranteed rights have not been valid, and we have been in a state for almost a year now when we have the economy literally in a breathing state. Jobs and businesses, as long as they do not fail, do not perish mainly because a country that is heavily indebted helps to keep things alive somehow. But there'll be a debt we'll pay for it for a long time. And there will remain the wounds that we will feel for a long time; 3,000,700 deaths, not to mention the consequences that this will leave on the children who have missed almost half the school year this year. If I go back to the climate crisis. The climate crisis in this sense is very similar to the covida-19 crisis. Experts warn unanimously, I think there is a 99% consensus in the global scientific public that we need to start dealing with the warming of the atmosphere and the deterioration of ecosystems, because this will be a serious problem in the coming decades and because this is the greatest risk for people, for the environment, not least for political peace, stability and prosperity in the next century ahead. And they point out that by 2030 we have a practical time, in 2030 this date with history will be when we see if we have managed to at least approximate the climate crisis. It is therefore essential that we take advantage of the next decade in order to invest in adaptation to climate change and in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, in general, reducing pollution. However, in the government proposal we have again from five billion to sustainable mobility, and you need to know that transport is the largest polluter in Slovenia, about half of the greenhouse gases come from transport, into sustainable mobility will be allocated 174 million euros, says 2% of these 5 billion. The circular economy will be allocated €88 million, accounting for less than 1% of these €5 billion. So seriously, the government is facing a climate crisis. If we look at the numbers, even if we compare how much will go into the roads and how much will go into the railways and public transport, we can say that the government is de facto denying the existence of the climate crisis and is acting like it isn't. And it's not just a story for six years, it's the story of the end of me and the next generation that's gonna beat us for the rest of our lives. Just as we faced a situation where everything that was previously considered normal would have such consequences if the global ecosystems really started to collapse, if we started mass migration around the world because some parts of the world would become life-sustainable, if we were to be hit by natural resources, if we were hit by droughts and crops, if natural disasters were to thicken. This is the perspective that awaits us in this century unless we begin to adjust in time. No, but we have here as a crumb of resources that are even facing this issue. We did not call on these meetings in the opposition to dictate how they will now respond on the government's side. We called this meeting in the opposition to hold a minimum of public debate on what the Government has sent to the European Commission and what these funds could do. As previously said by colleagues from other opposition parties, in the Coalition of the Constitutional Loka in December and a good part of January, we have dedicated ourselves to preparing an alternative national recovery and resilience plan in our programme, because it is a programme that is somehow a coalition contract for all of us for the next six years. This is a programme that determines how Slovenia will develop over the next six years, what we will do with these funds, where we will go, what development will be like if it does. And we have taken just the opposite approach as a government. First, we asked ourselves what national priorities are, and we classified them into four segments – health, solidarity, environment and development, and then defined priority projects within this. I'm not going to go into detail here because the plan has already been presented by my colleagues. I mean, take it seriously, because I think it's set up significantly better than the government, and above all it reflects social needs. We combined European resources and domestic resources and tried to create leverage. While the government is not taking the environmental and climate crisis seriously, our programme, together with domestic and European resources, is worth 10 billion over the next six years. And that's the amount we should talk about if we want the crisis and our future to be taken seriously. I started with the word "opportunity." It is said that this national recovery and resilience plan is an opportunity that Slovenia has, but if the plan remains as proposed by the government, this opportunity will be lost. For the next six years, we will be watching only the continuation of the trends of previous years when we used European funds; what are the effects, and I think the numbers speak for themselves – 60% of what we could – we have only drawn. The national priority or some national projects have not even been established; they are all broken down into over 5,000 600 projects. And we are here to listen to the government's call, however, to cut through this state and set up a plan, a plan that will respond to the essential social needs that we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister Zvone Černač, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! MEPs and Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are extremely pleased that the European Commission, through its recovery and resistance mechanism from Slovenia, has driven away the last Eurosceptic. We see, thank God, there is great interest in European policy and this mechanism, this Regulation on the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism is work, the result of European policy. It's a great pleasure to meet you. Let me just mention here and I will not go to any epic width that our country has the 2030 Development Strategy adopted by the Government on 7 December 2017. History doesn't start today. I also wonder how many debates there have been in Parliament on this Slovenian Development Strategy adopted by the Government in December 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, it all begins and ends in the Parliamentary Chamber. Our relations and our social systems are governed by laws adopted by the majority of the votes cast. Therefore, changes are needed by most Members; one is only the voice of the one crying out in the wilderness. Only the majority can move the mountain. Although I began optimistically, sometimes I am extremely concerned because in our debates the dilemmas – either nationalisation or privatisation – are being heard and opened. Obviously, we have not yet cleared up this dilemma in this Chamber, and I am afraid, as has already been foretold, that one day, soon, perhaps in the next term, a government will come and – carefully – give farmers the nationalization of what they have created by hard work. Because some parties have this or at least one in their political agenda, but today it is not a topic. I continue to cooperate because there is no majority without cooperation. Without most changes, we will never realize all our options and remove the obstacles that prevent us from breaking in. In the DNA record of each Slovenian political party, the cooperation gene should be stressed, as without it no party can realize what it is working towards. New Slovenia is open in the middle of Slovenian political space to cooperate with all. We understand there's no hard feelings about politics. However, we only agree to a high-cultural parliamentary dialogue. Blockades, unjustified blockades, which we are witnessing not only in the National Assembly, but also in other state institutions, should disappear from Slovenia forever. We will be so much more developed a country, prosperity for everyone will increase when we make such a system so that each of the citizens and citizens of this country can relax all their intellectual potentials, entrepreneurial and other cultural, artistic potentials. When we release Slovenia, then we will develop, then we will be rich in all the dimensions of that word. Slovenia needs a new national consensus to break through. After two major national consensuss – independence and membership in Euro-Atlantic integration – we now need a third national consensus In New Slovenia we see an opportunity for a third national consensus in the general digitisation of the country and in the green breakthrough. We are ready for a break-in partnership – for a digital break-in, for a green break-in. How did all of this start when we were talking about a mechanism for recovery and resilience? Let me remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of March 2020. March 2020, when we took over the power we were forced to take over for responsibility, because the previous government simply withdrew. At that time, in March 2020, the nine leaders of the Member States of the European Union — Belgium, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain and Slovenia — in a joint letter to the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, invited him to act in a coordinated, uniform and solidarity manner. I'm talking about crown bonds. You still remember what year it is back, the crown bonds that didn't come true, of course. At the same time, the European Commission was asked – the leaders of these countries, including the Slovenian President of the Government – to draw up joint guidelines for the collection and exchange of health and epidemiological information and a strategy to respond to the development of the epidemic. They also stressed the need to take exceptional measures to minimise the adverse effects of the epidemic on the economy. In a spirit of efficiency and solidarity, the signatories also call for consideration of the possibility of using other tools, such as special funding for the costs associated with the coronavirus, within the framework of the European Union budget, at least for last year and this year. They noted that it will also be necessary to prepare for post-crisis time and to think together about the cross-border functioning of economies, global value chains, strategic sectors, health systems and joint European investments and projects. This letter, ladies and gentlemen, has contributed significantly to the development of the debate which led to an agreement on a recovery plan for Europe. We are talking about €672.5 billion in loans and grants for economic recovery towards a green and digital transition. So the Crown bonds failed, in this group of nine countries where Slovenia was, too, France, you all understand what I want to stress; and then, because Germany opposed the Crown Bonds, negotiations started and led in some way to today's debate. Let me also remind you here of an extremely favourable agreement on a multi-annual financial framework. Slovenia has been extremely successful in negotiating the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027 and the Recovery Package and has achieved everything – all – its negotiating objectives. The net beneficiary of the European Union budget will also remain in the period 2021-2027. In addition to the funding from the multiannual financial framework, it will also receive extensive additional funding under the new recovery instrument, which I have already mentioned. We are pleased that a compromise was reached at the European Summit on 10 and 11 December and that the negotiations for the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism have also been concluded. On the basis of an agreement at the summit, the European Commission, of course, received the task and prepared on 28 May last year a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a mechanism for recovery and resilience. Again, 28 May 2020. National parliaments shall also be defined by each proposal for a regulation drawn up by the European Commission. So is ours. The European Union Affairs Committee adopted its position on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a mechanism for recovery and resistance at its 82nd regular meeting, chaired by colleague Marko Pogačnik, which was last July. How many discussions were there, ladies and gentlemen, at this meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs? Parliamentarians can all say – mea culpa or pour ashes. Nik Prebil, the only colleague, responded to the debate where he had already said at the outset that he would be very brief, and he also kept this promise. I think it took maybe 10 minutes to complete the presentation by the government. Such an important regulation and such an important position has, of course, been positively adopted. But this is just a position on the proposal for a regulation which the European Parliament must adopt. On 10 February this year, the European Parliament adopted a legislative resolution of the European Parliament on a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a mechanism for recovery and resilience; with effect from 19 February, it is said 14 days ago. Therefore this Regulation entered into force 14 days ago. I know this is uninteresting for a lot of people. However, I wanted to make this very clear because it is very difficult to accept falsehoods or, better, lies, also by some European MEP, that Slovenian dossiers, Slovenian documents have already been rejected twice on the European Commission. That's really amazing, and I can say here that some really only go to Brussels on a pay-only basis. I have read this legislative resolution and, of course, it is also a regulation that I have read in great detail. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the European Commission's guidelines for the Recovery and Resistance Plan? Long-term reforms and investments, in particular in green and digital technologies, sustainable impacts on productivity and economic resilience, the resilience of the health system and the long-term care system, mitigate the socio-economic consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, support strategic investments for green and digital transition. I think this is where all of us 90 of these guidelines can sign. But the question is, do we all know what we would sign? In my own words and in my understanding, there will be no money from this Fund from the Recovery and Resistance Plan if we do not implement reforms. How much is this Parliament, which I have said that everything begins and ends in this Chamber, and how much does it favor reforms? When did we adopt the last very important reform? We have adopted such a small pension reform in December 2012, which, inter alia, stated that two years after the enactment of the law, we must establish a national demographic fund, which today some of the left-wing opposition are setting up blockages because they do not want to respect the laws. There have been many observations that the Minister has already replied that he is ruling in some closed rooms or where he is already producing this document, which he will send to the European Commission. I think that, nevertheless, there has been sufficient media coverage of, say, consultation with mayors and directors of regional development agencies; August 20th last year. On the consultation with mayors and other stakeholders, i.e. once again, on 18 September last year, consultations with all the councils and development councils of the twelve development regions last November, the meeting of the Economic and Social Council last November, an online expert consultation entitled Where the funds will be in 2021-2027; again November 2020, where SVRK and MGRT participated, and the event was accompanied by more than a thousand 300 participants, most economists, which means that there was probably some interest if there were a thousand 300 people at the event. Then separate meetings with the social partners in different fields from 23 to 27 November 2020, meetings with NGOs, also November, and so on and so on. I am confident and trust so in the Government and Minister Chernač, who coordinates these matters, that is certainly one of the biggest, most demanding projects in recent years. And I believe that we all have only one wish that this money, which is really for recovery and resilience, would truly bring the Slovenian economy to all citizens and citizens recovery. We are all sort of paralyzed, especially the Slovenian economy, because of covid-19. And to make our economic and social environment one that will be resistant to possible recurrences of tragedy, such as the pandemic of the new coronavirus. I believe that the document will become optimal, and I also believe that the government will be successful in these iterative steps in coordination and that the actual document will bring a strong recovery of the Slovenian economy in the coming years. Because this is actually our European Marshall recovery plan, as we knew it, or they knew it after World War II. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, we are closely monitoring and contributing with our ideas to this plan. For us, a digital and green breakthrough is essential, and indeed in such a way that the results will be useful, as we say, for each individual and for all business entities in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Reich, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u22	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! The effects of the new coronary virus have been shown to be lethal. This was confirmed by scientists at the University of Barcelona at the end of February, who have studied more than a million covid-19 deaths in 81 countries around the world. They found that the world lost 20,5 million years to covid-19. I repeat: 20.5 million years. It is not surprising, therefore, that the European Commission, the European Parliament and the leaders of the European Union have also come to realize that only a connected and empowered Union can meet modern challenges. They agreed on an economic recovery plan that would mitigate economic, social and social damage and lay the foundations for a greener, digital and resilient Europe. The European Union pandemic package includes a multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021-2027 and a recovery instrument for the Next Generation of the EU. Slovenia will be able to benefit from the EUR 5.2 billion recovery and resilience mechanism. We will be able to finance the measures implemented from February to August 2026, which is also retroactive. The basis for using these funds is the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the content of which is being addressed today. The government approved the proposal for a plan on 23 December last year and Member States are required to submit final national plans by 30 April this year in which their reforms and investments will be carried out by 2026. The creation of the Slovenian plan is accompanied by circumstances that are not promising. Unlike other European countries, the draft plan was behind closed doors, and the public was somehow excluded from its design. While they were organised with the development councils of the regions, development agencies and local communities, other stakeholders were only informed. The European Commission has so informally launched a Slovenian proposal twice. Last October, in Brussels, the plan was said to be too general and superficially prepared, and in February, it was assessed that the plan was under-focused on the green and digital future. The proposal for a plan is simply not ambitious enough, it lacks those objectives, a far-reaching development strategy and measurable measures. If I am more specific, the draft recovery plan does not reach even half of the quota of the prescribed climate targets and the digitisation chapter is too limited. The European Commission's guidelines are very clear. Members should provide at least 37% of actions to achieve climate objectives and 20% of measures to achieve digitisation objectives. It is therefore essential that we use European funds not only to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic but to invest in development and breakthrough areas. This will make a difference on the European floor between countries, and the question is whether we will step up with them or stay behind. At this point, it is sad that the government gives priority to concrete and carbon instead of railways and carbon. The concrete's obviously dry gold, so we're giving the railways the fuses. At the same time, the development guidelines and criteria of the European Union are very clear and were later included in the Regulation adopted by the European Parliament on 10 February. Let us recall that it has been more than 10 years since European development calls have known the criteria, such as excellence, impact and quality and efficiency of implementation; and this is all taken into account and included in the evaluation processes, while the proposal sent to Brussels has somehow left this behind. But the recovery plan is about the developmental transformation of Slovenia and it is therefore very important where these funds are to be allocated. This is therefore a key country development strategy, not a government. According to economist Dr. Wostner, one of the authors of a resounding study on the recovery plan, entrepreneurs from Slovenia and the global estimate that the transition to the fourth industrial revolution will be crucial in the next five years. According to Dr. Wostner’s assessment, a new decision will be made in the world as to who will produce what and what its standard will be. We have already begun to miss this train due to the slow dynamics of reforms and underinvestment, and it will be fatal if the train escapes. It is true, however, that the development strategies are not visible overnight or next year in elections but exceed the mandate of this government. Instead of buying pre-election candy by building roads or circles, it is necessary to push the way towards carbonisation, digitisation, creating new jobs, so open up the outside, modernise and decarbonise the economy, strengthen public health and keep the brain running. Ladies and gentlemen, recovery will be the most successful countries that will be dynamic and developmental breakthroughs. Slovenia has this possibility, and it would be right to finally include the entire professional public and civil society in the design of the plan. Especially now that the government has withdrawn the INTERNAL marking from the draft document and is a document to look into people. Together, we are responsible for Slovenia to take a step with the leaders and continue to create prosperity for all. And as a famous quote says – “The developed country is not the one where they have poorer cars, but the one where the wealthier ones use public transport.” Let Slovenia's developmental advantage for the selection of projects not be the cheerleading of football competitions, because there are many people who can afford a soul, and after the game everything stays the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u24	Thank you very much again. First of all, I should like to thank you for everything that has been said by the various representatives of the parliamentary groups. I can do what I said on the board today. If we look at a general, large picture, virtually all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Levica Group, agree on the direction in which Slovenia should sail in the next nine or ten years. Where we differ, however, there is an approach, an ambition on what we can do during this period and what our priorities are during this decade. Whether these funds we have in the framework of the recovery plan in combination with all other funds is sufficient to make this developmental shift or not. And if they are enough — and I understand in this regard that we agree — it is essential whether we are prepared to make this development move to support the reforms needed to do so. And here is the key where, as I can see, in view of what is happening in the last days of the National Assembly, the representatives of the parties who convened this meeting and the representatives of the coalition and some other parties are different. And here I think that this is a very important point if we fail to resolve it properly in some dialogue, whether we will succeed in these efforts in the coming years. With regard to this so-called alternative plan, which it is not, I understand that it is difficult to get through almost a thousand pages of material, but the essentials are summarised on several sides and it would be enough to look at these few pages. If you believe that these 20 pages of the so-called alternative plan – the material together with the explanations of 30 pages – are what Slovenia needs in the next ten years, I repeat, suggest a procedural decision to vote on this and to send it to Brussels. I don't have any problems with that. People, the state, I've already said that on the board. I propose that in this further debate, we focus on those essential substantive points that await us in the next ten years. Once again, I would like to stress that all good and concrete proposals, both those that have been made so far, as those that will be mediated in this process, will be taken into account, regardless of who they come from, until the conclusion of the final plan, which will go to the benefit of the people and which will pursue the objectives that Slovenia and the European Union are pursuing. Those proposals that cannot be placed in this plan, given that it is limited financially, are already being put in place and will be placed in future in other funding mechanisms. One part of this has been placed in REACT, one part of which we have been able to put into existing financial perspectives and an essential part of what cannot be placed in the recovery plan is placed in the financial perspective 2021-2027, where, as I have said, only from the European grants will there be twice as many grants as within the RRF, amount to 3 billion 200. If we add a national contribution to this, we are talking about about about €4 billion 200 million over the next nine years. This aspect, in my view, should be viewed as a whole and we are not focusing on this part, which, in the whole structure, the truth of the love, if we deduct the loans, is essentially a minority share of future grants. Some of the things that have been said must be demarcated, otherwise they have already been demented a hundred times, but it is obvious that it is necessary to keep on and on the communication and how the dialogue has been conducted, and that there were not a thousand 300 participants in the Hill, but that this meeting has been held virtually due to the situation, in the light of the formal conditions of communication with the holders of the visa, the European Commission has been sufficiently discussed on the Monitoring Committee held last October. Enough, absolutely enough, nothing else would have to be done, but we wanted this matter to be communicated as much as possible, mainly because it was of great interest from different local backgrounds, especially in whether these resources from the recovery plan would also be allocated to individual local projects. Of course, part of the funds will also be allocated to these projects on the basis of calls for proposals in specific areas, in particular in the area of restoration of sewage systems, cleaning plants, public buildings also in the area of local communities, energy recovery and so on. Because that's normal, because we live in the same country. All the projects that are going in the direction, which is now somehow a leading note at the level of the European Union – green and smart; all that goes in the sense of green and smart is somehow a priority and must also be done. However, I said that we may differ in how we understand these individual directions. We understand them from a practical point of view in such a way that we actually take measures that will also achieve these green and other objectives. It has been said by the representative of the proposalers of Mr Trčko that it is time to bury the axes. Here. But who was digging them up?Oh, my God! Who now digs up an axe in one of the major reforms, which will also be a condition for drawing funds, is the demographic fund?Oh, my God! This is just one of the reforms that will be part of this plan. If this is not adopted in Parliament, there will be no such means. It will not, because one of the goals will not be achieved. So at the first point, let me bury this axe, let me bury it, not block a thing that's good that goes in the interests of people who go primarily in the interest of those who for decades have created this property. And I think it is fair that we now manage this property in such a way that the management of this property will be one of the pillars, one of the pillars, not one of the pillars, one of the pillars for long-term ensuring the stability of the pension treasury. And if we fail to agree at this point on how we will then, in all the other necessary reforms, for which we all find that they should have already been made, they have not been. For example, one of the essentials is, of course, education reform related to the labour market. For the last time, I told the Committee that it is impossible, given the changed situation, that this world is developing, that some professions are dying out, to make a change in this area, and to start educating people who will eventually get the job; but not to direct young people to jobs that no longer have a future. And we need to face it as soon as possible. If we do not face these changes, we will not achieve them. And now I really want to know if you're going to support this change when it comes to it or not, because it's urgent. When we talk about young people having to have a choice and deciding for themselves what to study. Yes, I absolutely agree with that. But now tell me an example, dozens of young people are rejected every year and, say, they can't study medicine because there aren't enough places to enroll in, like, dozens of young people. On the other hand, there's a shortage of this frame. There is something similar about secondary education in the same professions. There's something similar about computer science, computer science. Dozens of young people are unable to study because of limited enrollment. But we did not prevent them from choosing, and the work could eventually be easily obtained. And they do not burden the employment institution and do not burden all other funds in such cases, because those personnel profiles which are not appropriate and which are not absorbed by the labour market should be retrained. Retrain. And for this it is necessary to allocate funds, unfortunately also from European funds; and the data say that these funds are not so small. Not the tens of millions in the whole perspective, hundreds of millions in the entire perspective go to hundreds of millions of these resources, which we devote to making a misdirection at the starting point in the education system, then trying to rehabilitate by retraining these people. The basis of what we want to do in the next nine or ten years is these changes, which are urgent; and without them there will be no breakthrough. Ambassador Duck said that what was to be concrete should have been concrete 15 to 20 years ago, and we didn't. Look, I don't know. The SD has been substantially in power for many years as the Slovenian Democratic Party and, like all other parties to the current coalition, for many years. Why didn't you knock it off? Nor do I agree that there is a conflict between knowledge, innovation, high technologies, the system 5G, 4.0, 5.0 and so on, and so-called, in grave terms, concrete. There's no such thing as a conflict. I don't know if we really don't understand that. If we want to make a reform in a particular area, let's say an example of long-term care and a system of this protection of the elderly, then, given the current undernutrition of capacity, we urgently need new capacities, according to your concrete. It's not concrete for me. For me it's homes, it's a house, it's a home where these people live. It's not concrete, it's something else. From 2013 to 2018, Minister from SD was Minister for this area, Anja Kopač Mrak, from 2013 to 2018, for five years. No place for home care has been awarded in these five years through the concession, none. Not one new bed was built from public funds during this period, something was maintained, something was flickering and so on. Not one. And then at the same time, you say it's a problem to invest in concrete. And you're talking about that we have a problem, that we had a problem in this pandemic, mainly because these capacities weren't appropriate. Yes, we still have it today, today, because it can't be arranged in one year or overnight. In three years, yes. By the end of 2023, be assured that in this Slovenia there will be at least 2 000 new places in domestic care, at least 2 000 new cities, through concessions and via public network. If we had them yesterday, I firmly believe that 80% of the problems we had with the infections and everything that followed in the homes for the elderly would be gone. But because this was not the case, because we know what individual homes were built 40 years ago, more of a sailboat than homes, of course it was impossible to do that. And now it's time to do it. And that is why I do not understand the statement in this proposal, where you say that when we talk about the REACT initiative, where it is available by the end of 2023, 330 million euros in funding, about a third of which we are committed to strengthening this social security system, especially the home system at different levels, so that we are dealing with the problem in a partial way. We don't do anything partial. This cannot be part of this plan, thank God it is not, because the regulation setting out the use of this money was adopted at the end of December. And since we knew that it would not be operational for much longer – and it became operational today or yesterday, in the sense that we could even make a formal change in the validation procedure – the government is 23. 12. Decided that decisions to support projects under this initiative could be made earlier. And we betray them. Last week, I said that we issued the first decision to move a lung in Maribor, which will release the premises where a nursing hospital will be established within two years. Yesterday I signed support for 4 million and a half for the renovation of premises in UKC Ljubljana, where there will be an additional 87 cities from 33 cities for the needs of the nursing hospital, there are 120 cities. By the end of March, a decision will be taken to support a complete reconstruction of the UKC parent building of EUR 50 million. These are all investments coming from REACT. And the fact that we can do these things quickly now makes it possible for us to reach a decision of the Government of 23. 12. which speaks of the possibility of issuing conditional decisions prior to formal confirmation. And so for at least half a year, we have accelerated the preparation and implementation of investments, because in larger, say UKC, this complete reconstruction will take two and a half years, and it must be completed by 31. 12. 2023. A thousand 285 concessions, a thousand 285 cities, will be awarded for capacity in the nursing homes. From the public network, thousands of 500 to 2 000 cities will be provided through REACT and the Recovery and Resistance Plan plus 30 million state budget funds for 2020 and 2021. Over the next three to four years – 3 thousand 900 to 4 thousand 400 new cities in nursing homes. If this deficit, which has been on the rise for the last ten, twelve years and, above all, in the last seven, six years, had been reduced by at least half, the consequences of this pandemic would have been significantly lower in this population. But we can't talk about investing in concrete, please. You say that if we invest here, we invest in concrete, if we invest in UKC, we invest in concrete. If we're investing in hospital renovations all over the country, are we investing in concrete?Oh, my God! No, we are investing in the energy renovations of all these buildings because they are older, and we are also following these objectives, followed by the European Union. The same applies to all other investments carried out in other areas. This dilemma about roads and railways is also an artificial dilemma. By the way, don't hold what you're saying, four too many for the roads as for the railroads. But now we really need to look at the whole here, and if we look at all the resources from which the modernisation of rail infrastructure will be financed over the next nine years, we are talking about investments in rail infrastructure over 2 billion and a half euros. And also from the grants, the number for railways is higher than for road infrastructure, I think about 170 million, for road around 160, but that's not important. Do you think that Koros do not need a normal road connection, or do they not need the 3rd development axis, which we have been postponing for years and years in a different way? It's been delayed, now it's finally started. Do you believe that this existing link contributes less or more to environmental objectives? Is there going to be more exhausts and everything else in this connection, or is there going to be more exhausts and everything else? This link, while road, is normal, contributes both to environmental objectives and to all other objectives because it enables better connectivity, better mobility, enables development in the region, which is now hampered by inadequate links. It is true, however, that in terms of achieving the green and digital table annexed to the Regulation, such a road does not contribute anything, nothing percent; but this does not mean that it does not have to be done. It has to be done. As I told you in the introduction; for everyone who thinks normally, the contribution to green is if a sewage treatment plant is made somewhere, that systems that are now running dirty into individual waters are arranged; it is a 100 % contribution to green; and only 40 % of them are reported in these tables. However, we are trying to combine smaller systems with a recovery plan because Slovenia is specific to population and is rarely populated and it is impossible to operate large systems in individual areas, and the European Commission says that less than 2 000 can't use European money in the sewers. Why not? If we are pursuing goals that say that we need to preserve the environment; and something that is very important about Slovenia. Not only do we have one of the largest shares of Natura 2000 and other insurance areas, we also have an extremely large number of water resources and water protection areas. And you need to be protected. And if we want to protect them, we can only protect them by cleaning up everything that's dirty, by collecting it in one proper way and doing it through these systems then onward. And one of the problems is, of course, the lack of this percentage, which again means that these investments and these very necessary plans will have to be combined with other mechanisms; and we will do so. With this emphasis on the need to combine different financial resources in this planning period by 2030, we are very aware of this and we will also do it in the future, but let me say it again. Formal rules are just what they are. As has been said since this favourable financial framework was negotiated on 21 July both at the level of the European Union and Slovenia, it was clear that we have around EUR 12 billion available by 2030, which means, if we generalise, about a billion a year in the next period. So far, we've been pumping between 400 million and 500 million a year. It was very rare for years that Slovenia managed to absorb 700 to 800 million. We have a difficult task ahead of us, and we are very aware of that, which is why we are also changing the organisational structure and everything else, so that we can do these things wisely and, above all, in a qualitative way. When we talk about these 12 billion, this is how it was supposed to be, we had about a billion more from the existing perspective 800, now it's about 400 million less, so from the existing perspective we have available up to the end of 2023 another billion EUR 400 million in grants. They're all tied up mostly, all of them. Minor changes will still happen, but this is money that has already been defined and defined. The additional funds in this perspective are from the REACT initiative, which I mentioned earlier, 330 million; and in this regard, we have also confirmed the amendment of the operational committee on October, which is now in the validation phase, nevertheless being implemented. However, this means that we have allocated these funds to areas where individual sectors or systems have been most affected, namely health, some 140 million euros, social protection and home care, and everything else about 90 million euros and the rest to the economy and education. The economy in particular in this sense – supporting businesses to start operating as quickly as possible after this crisis has ended. Then we have the area of agricultural policy, which is programmed according to their rules, a billion 600; and the area of the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, 3 billion 200, which we are programming again according to the rules to be adopted, we are counting in the European Parliament in May this year. And the remainder is a billion 600, the recovery plan is irreversible; and the option is three billion 200 loans. And loans need to be cost-effective, rational and, of course, in accordance with the good-bore mechanism, when this mechanism is more favourable than Slovenia currently has through access to international financial markets, where the situation, because it has been successful in the economic field in coping with the crisis, currently owes a negative interest rate, which raises the question of how much this mechanism will eventually be used. But even if it doesn't, another mechanism will be used for the same purposes. The content is important, not the mechanism that we come from. That's why it's right to know we're talking about this job. Once again, this work, more than the funds available, is an important essential part of this reform. If we all agree together that there will be no objection to these changes, that we will understand that we have to make this move, then I believe that we will succeed further. Member of the Moon, I apologize. He can't get out of his skin. I can say it a hundred times. I think it's a lost cause. I think I can tell you a million times here what he's holding and what he's not holding, and the next time he gets a chance to tell behind the microphone, he's gonna cheat again, manipulate and so on. I regret this, but it makes no sense for me to repeat this communication, regardless of what is true and what is not, without the fact that it is not possible to reject the plan for two days before it even formally enters into force a regulation allowing investment and so on. However, I have said, and this is no secret, once again, that during all this period, communication was normally carried out at the level of the European Commission's official office through the competent Directorates, with the aim of clarifying, in technical-administrative terms, all uncertainties in this interim period and preparing a document which will ultimately, with as few formal complications, receive appropriate confirmations at the level of the European Commission. And we're not just doing this with this document, we've done this with REACT. There have also been at least eight discussions with REACT before we have put this document into the procedure; and similar planning for the next financial perspective. This is a normal dialogue that takes place at the level of the national authorities and the European Commission, with the aim of, of course, harmonising all uncertainties in previous procedures. And this dilemma that we're giving to the army of 780 million and only 202 million for health care at the RRF is not appropriate. This country needs both safety and health care, and long-term care, as well as access to youth services when they finish school, not to talk about everything else. But there's no question that if we don't put 780 for the army, then we'll give more for these areas. No, it's not, 'cause you can't do it without each other. There's nothing that super-managed systems can do if we're not safe. In addition, these funds have nothing to do with these funds allocated to other areas and other systems. And as far as health care is concerned, it must be said that this part is the part which, according to the structure of the resources that we have within the framework of a billion 600, is dedicated to this area. If we spent half a billion here, the rest of the areas would be undernourished. This is also why we combine these funds here with 140 million from REACT and with a national contribution, which means that in the next three to four years at least an additional 500 million euros will be provided for this area, half a billion. And you know that health bills weigh more than €3 billion a year. These are comparisons that sound populism-like, but they don't have some real weight. The question of why in the first version of the plan – I think Member Sukič asked me on the committee – was 140 for an infection in Ljubljana or Maribor, and now it is only 92. Yeah, look, at the end of the day, it's only going to be 80. Maybe only 80, it's important that we have a project defined by content. But since it's on the D.I.P. level, you know what that means. I do not know what the end value will be; but the definition is that health systems will be strengthened primarily in the part that is most important for the future and which should have been done years ago; and here, of course, both UKCs are key as a backbone of this public system and, of course, all the other hospitals in individual regions that have also been fed over the years. And when we talk in this part about nursing hospitals, where Slovenia is highly malnourished, if we are to make up for the late payment and provide people with normal services in this area, then we will also have to combine concession relations, public concession relations and public funds here, as in nursing homes. It won't be any different. And it is also right here to discuss this honestly and to see if there are any objections and why. I don't see them. These things need to be combined. Why? Since normal services should be provided to people as soon as possible, which should have been received years and years ago, they were not because things were going too slowly. Then there was a speech by Member Mesca about how these funds were squandered during – he spoke – 5,000 600 projects. He was talking about an existing financial perspective, an existing financial perspective. I have to say it's definitely a problem, but it's not just 5,000 600, it's significantly more, it's even more than 5,000 600. But in what area are these small projects? Not on these major investment projects and so on, but on the so-called soft work it is. But one part of this soft work is also things that are very important to people, such as project Employment.me or First Employment. This is about operations worth a few thousand euros, but through this they employ schoolchildren, first job, first job in kindergartens and so on. These scholarships are small projects, which are also financed by European money. For half a billion euros there are these funds. I don't know if I should understand that Member of the Moon believes that this should be deleted when he speaks of it being broken down into 5,000 600. It is not so much a problem that these small projects are; the problem is whether these funds are spent effectively. Some of them, some of them aren't. There is something similar about research, development and innovation. I said last time, some of the funds are, some are not; and speaking of billions for this area being insufficient, the efficiency of consumption and absorption is currently 20%. So obviously there is not too much of this, only this country so far has not been able to steer these funds in a smart way to ultimately add value to where it should be. Let's say in this perspective: Public scholarship, development fund – €116 million of European money, Employment Office – 348 million, half billion total. These are those little projects. And you know who they are? That's it. You've seen this picture before. Non-governmental funds in the last ten years, total 706 million. Here, too, are these small projects, such as those based only on Metelkov 6 - 37 million 800. These are projects where these are small funds and where it is not right that such significant funds are earmarked for certain content of which no added value is added. If value added here is no problem, but because it is not and because other areas have been nourished at the expense of this in the past, it is also necessary, through these reforms in the Plan for Recovery and Resistance of this scheme, to change and allocate funds for student homes, for the provision of elderly and home care, for health care, for better health services and so on, for the dwellings of the young people you are talking about. By the way, it is currently in construction and by the end of 2023 2 000 400 rental apartments will be delivered only through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, and the plan by 2025 is an additional 3 000 700 apartments, with this number being in the RRF, only one part of the assets that provide this housing, the 180 million euros that Luka Mesec was talking about. And by the way, when you talk about what proportion of health resources we devote to the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Italy, where the government fell because they could not agree on a smart allocation of these funds, had an initial plan of 9.5 billion for health care, which is less than 5%. Now it has 19 billion, so still less than 10%. We currently have more than 10% of the health coverage foreseen and we are not specific within the European Union. So we have some jackals available, some kind of money quota that needs to be smartly distributed among the various purposes of spending; and we are doing so. It should also be known that one part of these funds can be spent by the end of 2023, the other by the end of 2026 and the third part by the end of 2029. And if some projects are not well prepared, this means that they do not allow this spending until this period, it is irresponsible to place them in these plans because they cannot be implemented; and therefore we combine them with all three or four mechanisms. As far as we are concerned, we are devoting too little of our support to entrepreneurship, as Member of the Moon has been talking about, and so on, that we should devote more to this area. In the last seven years, in 2020 there were at least seven years of bankruptcy in Slovenia. At least. Clearly, these measures have worked through the PKPs. Unemployment fell by more than three thousand in February, and the number of employees increased by more than 6 thousand 600 new employees. So these measures obviously worked and went in the right direction. With regard to the climate crisis and everything else that's involved. Here we differ in understanding the climate crisis as a process that does not take place for five or ten years or 20 years, but over thousands of years, millions of years. And this process is happening, and it will continue. That's a fact. And the funds that we have to make from this address are the means to deal with the consequences of what is happening. This does not mean that we are doing some studies and I do not know what, we are talking about some kind of climate justice. Those who talk about it don't know what it is; it's to address the problems that happen to us because of it. What, though, are these problems in Slovenia? Floods are one of those problems. The reptiles. And the funds in the plan are allocated to these areas. There will be earthquakes, there will be earthquakes, and there will be funds for this area. The rehabilitation of those buildings, which are already known today, that if there is a similar earthquake as it happened in neighbouring Croatia, we will have problems. As a result, we are earmarking funds for specific projects through which we will endeavour to prevent the possible consequences of these cases in advance. With regard to these general matters, I must say that we are not different. But we're different, like I said, in approach. I hope there's no objection to what I said last time on the board, but there's one theory, and the other is a practical approach, action. And I think we're in a situation where we need to go into action right now. Now, in my opinion, there is no more time for major studies, big strategies and I don't know what, this process of formal preparation of this document needs to be completed, we are running the last round, we will go through it successfully. I also hope that there will be no opposition on these core points, because otherwise we will have very serious difficulties in drawing funds from specific projects. I am speaking on the basis of the reforms needed to carry out the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. First, Dr. Trček, the proposaler, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I would call once again, coming from the quote of Brglez, “how about everyone calm down a little bit.” The fact that the Minister was able to sign something is a consequence of the work of bureaucracy in this positive sense. Certain projects have been running, they've been preparing for too long, even for decades. If we were to give red tape more autonomy, we might be able to prepare ourselves first. One of them was recruited, the other one, sometimes when the SDS was in opposition, they also recruited someone with your party library, when it was the other way around, that's not the case. Second story. Who throws the ax? In the SDS position, you say what you are putting on the heart of the European Commission, and at the same time, the President of the Government already has 20 Tomahawks in his hand in the morning. The main reason why concrete is a problem, Tinker Bell, but then I'll say it in the debate; it's not just this government's problem, I've been babbling about it since 1997, if I remember correctly. But whether we can limit ourselves and whether we can go to the content of this document; because the vast majority of what you are saying are going around. The demographic fund, basically you want to tap it here now so little k, three dots, I'll tell you what I have at the end of my tongue. [[…]] It's content, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The first debater is Mr Jura Ferrjan. Get ready, Mrs. Andre Zabrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u28	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, honourable Members and, of course, welcome to all those who accompany us! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a comprehensive and extensive document. It is about EUR 5.2 billion, which – I believe – I believe – Slovenia will focus on what is most necessary and which will mean the best possible way out of the crisis we are currently in, and of course in what awaits us in the coming months and years. At the beginning of my debate, however, I would like to point out some of the facts that have been misleadingly told or were more lies and deceptions than the facts in recent months. First, on the process itself or on the preparation of a national recovery and resistance plan. This is a strategic document, which has also been prepared on the basis of a broad exchange of views, more than 2 000 stakeholders have been involved. We are talking about mayors, we are talking about directors of regional development agencies, we are also talking about the Economic and Social Council, the economists, what was an online or virtual expert consultation, more than a thousand 300 economists, as well as meetings, discussions with social partners and NGOs. As we see, a wide range of different stakeholders that have been involved in one way or another and, of course, this plan also has an impact on them. Allow me to highlight those key priorities or projects at the national, national level contained in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. In the area of infrastructure, this is certainly the 3rd development axis and major investments on the rail network. Today we are in a global health crisis, we can call the covida-19 pandemic, which is why the health sector is extremely important, namely here specifically the new infectory clinic in Maribor and Ljubljana, nursing hospitals and, of course, individual investments practically in hospitals throughout Slovenia, from UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, Golnika, also in Kranj Novi Gorica, Murski Soboti. I'm talking about millions of dollars, somewhere even after ten million dollars. So it is a specific investment, and it is not an investment, as the Minister has already said, into concrete, but an investment in health, a better service, i.e. an infrastructure that helps people and which in the context of this plan also means better resilience in the future. We do not know what lies ahead; of course, a similar health crisis can happen again, we do not want it, but we must be prepared. Then the area of long-term care. Probably one of the first things that comes to mind is home for the elderly. I would mention important information, so in 2021 more than a thousand 200 new cities were promised for older concessions. Of course, it is not negligible here that nothing has been done in this area more than the last decade. We also know who has been in power for the past ten years or for the most part in power. And in this area, nothing has actually been done. And those of you who convened the meeting today are now giving advice, and in this area you have done nothing in the decade. Then there is also a lot of investment in many areas if we move forward with regard to social protection, digitisation, energy renovations of public buildings, housing construction and so on. As we can see, here is one important difference between the left opposition and the current government coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We've been used to certain studies before. In your studies, you have learned what can or cannot be done; you have learned about various investments in objects or stories such as the Horn. Here is a different story, priorities, I mentioned key projects a few moments ago. Of course, with this step in hand, the implementation of certain structural reforms, which, if implemented yesterday, of course, would probably be quite late. However, it is time to do these things, here I am talking about labour market reform, education, health care, the process of debarcation, then in the area of long-term care and, of course, some comprehensive system of providing pension security funds. Here, in particular, the Slovenian Demographic Fund and again we know who in this National Assembly is hampering the adoption of a demographic fund that would systematically solve the issue, relieve the budget and constitute a really important step in this area. And we see that the Left Opposition is working in every way to move this story as far as possible into an indeterminate future; but I am sure that this law will also be adopted as soon as possible and that the objectives will also be achieved for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of our country. I also want to stress this. This is not a negligible fact because the decision on own resources in Slovenia has already been adopted. Slovenia is one of the six countries in the European Union that has already done so. Not only can we say with certainty that Slovenia has taken a very proactive approach to the situation and is among those countries of the European Union that are ahead of this plan. I have decided, however, that I will also point out certain things about deception in recent months, because the lie we hear perhaps ten times, if it does not become the truth, and we may see it as the truth, so it is also right that we help the truth to point it out more than once, that we are talking about the facts, that people will be able to create their own image and see what the facts are and what lies are. I cannot understand how you can claim that the European Commission has rejected our country's national recovery plan before an official procedure is possible so that it can do so; or that the country could even submit this plan. I don't understand, but you did. You're lying, you're deceiving. Not once, repeatedly. Two days before it was even possible to put this plan into action, you said that the European Commission had already rejected it twice. Lie to a lie and some Slovenian media are also helping you to submit a recovery and resistance plan on April 30th. And it is normal for those who prepare this plan, this plan in this process, at this stage, to also coordinate with the European Commission or the competent officials, this is a completely normal practice. The comments, the guidance received by the drafter is neither criticism, nor repudiation, nor opposition to this plan, but are aid, are guidance that then the final result is as good as possible, that it is optimal, that it is such that the Member State will actually draw as much resources as possible and direct them to where it is most necessary. And if I project this also on what my colleague, the moon, had previously said in a presentation of his party's position that he was the European Commission, he reiterated once again that the European Commission had refused. As important a project as an important national recovery and resilience plan as this document; what do you think these are some guidelines, and then the preparers prepare it, broadcast it. This could then go on indefinitely Even in the case of projects at regional or local level, as well as in the case of State resources or European funds, these coordinations are taking place. I can tell you from personal experience, a specific project, like DRR 2, those that you may have worked on the local level, you will know what I'm talking about, these are coordinations at monthly, two-month levels, various meetings and so on. Of course, plus what an individual preparer is doing during this intermediate time of preparation, when facing certain challenges, he is checking how to react, how to prepare things and documentation to be appropriate. And that's something quite normal and here it's illustrative that unfortunately my fellow moon doesn't understand it. Then there's one more thing. You in the left opposition were talking about different pools in the local area, including roads and so on. One thing first. There are no specific projects listed in the Recovery and Resistance Plan in the local area, as these projects will be selected at the local level through calls for proposals. And here it turns out that not only are you lying and deceiving, not all of you, some of you, obviously have a vivid imagination. And if things didn't just go away, I would still point out something else in this area. We have also talked about this on the committee and I am pleased at this point that we have, I think, reached a relatively very high consensus in most of the parliamentary groups, that projects at the local level are very important projects and that, if we look at them from a broader context, they can also mean a local road from the point of view of decentralisation of the country, from the point of view of the development of an area, a local environment, and if we go a step or two further, from the point of view of equal starting options, very high added value, these are projects with very high added value. And when we talk about equal starting options, we talk about whether we are born or live in Slovenia or where we live, we have the same or at least the same starting options. And when you say in Levica that this plan is obsolete or that it has those priorities or the thought or orientation that it is obsolete, then we are talking about road infrastructure, in this sense you said – in the 21st century we are investing in road infrastructure. People in the 21st century do not have the basic road transport, infrastructure, infrastructure to come to work normally, to a doctor and so on. And this is a problem and this is a problem in Slovenia in the 21st century, as well as in another country. And these are the problems that the Plan for Resistance and Recovery addresses; and so is it. It was already very clear to me today, and this seemed very appropriate to me. We have certain priorities, such as digital and green Slovenia, smart Slovenia, advanced Slovenia. Great, that's right. But we do have a certain flaw in other areas, which may seem to be at first glance fundamental, but for people who do not have this basic infrastructure, it is not something that is self-evident. It is true that when we have a certain thing, we are quick or too quick to be complacent. It is therefore right that these basic matters be settled, and this is the perspective that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sees and will realise. And the key is, maybe I missed it earlier when I was talking about coordination. Presentations are under way, coordination is under way and documentation is being prepared, and the matter needs to be completed, arranged, carried out, implemented. Previously, in the past, however, we have seen too often in past governments that there was some coordination, some presentation, and then there was some study, and there was some harmonisation, and then there was a study, and then there was an end. In this interim process, tens of millions were spent on studies and more likely. I could also devote a word or two to this alternative national recovery plan, which is prepared on twenty-three or twenty-three pages, but given that not one substantive word has been said by the proposer in the introduction of today's meeting, nor will I talk about it. In fact, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union also said that it was more of a pyro story than anything else. However, it is true that we are talking about proposals, which are still in this alternative plan and which can, of course, be placed in the documentation it prepares and from day to day, I believe, also drank by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the competent minister and the competent services. Respected and respected, I will conclude my debate with words that have also been spoken or written on the committee as a guide to the drafters of this Recovery and Resistance Plan. And this leads – we will leave no one behind and no part of Slovenia will be forgotten. So it is a strategic document that must and will be the basis or strategy for the best way out of the crisis, both health and potential economic and, in various sectors, that Slovenia retains its potential – I believe that we have also laid these foundations with anti-Korona packages – to preserve this; and that the objectives of the Recovery and Resistance Plan follow what is to come. So advanced, smart, digital, green, innovative, entrepreneurial Slovenia. Slovenia, which will be responsible, and in particular Slovenia, which will be close to people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are stronger together. Let's join forces, because it's about our future, it's about the future of our descendants, it's about Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. But now I have to slow down in all these high-pitched words and boasting and in the fact that we have heard the name Luke Moon almost more than the Recovery and Resistance Plan. I mean, that's a little too much. First. Because he confused my colleague in front of me when he was talking about some of these projects. What is the Plan for Recovery and Resistance? 37% of the European Recovery and Resistance Mechanism funds must be earmarked by countries for actions that contribute to the achievement of the green objectives. Pika. Green targets. And a fifth, says 20%, of measures that contribute to the achievement of digital objectives. We don't have anything to worry about here, what we're going to do in there, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, I mean, you got it all mixed up, buddy, really. However, the principle that no measure should be materially harmful to the environment must be taken into account. And now you will explain in the spirit of this, as the Minister understands climate change, which is a horror at all, if it is a natural cycle, that after industrialization we have managed to bring down the climate and produced the approaching climate break with car exhausts, industrialization and so on and so on. I mean, it's not a natural cycle, it's what humanity has done to speed up some processes that are very dangerous. And now you're going to move around and you're going to say that what we are in Levica, when we say that, for example, the railways are being used too little and for roads too much and that this is not the point of this Recovery and Resistance Plan. Because it is not, and that is what Europe has told you nicely, and that is probably why comments are coming on the drafts, which, of course, you also deny and say that we are all lying on the list, the real media are lying, we are lying in the opposition, we are all lying, and you are telling the truth. Then you mentioned some studies. Minister Simoniti has just burned some 10,000 euros for a quasi-study, a biased study on what our media report, all as part of your media war, which you also beat here when we discuss the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Now you tell me one thing, if you're really so true, and we're so lying. Why did you have an internal marking on this document from July to 26 February? Why? Why was the public debate not held as it is served? We know what a broad public debate means. It's not that you and a couple of stakeholders have something, some invention, some advice, and in fact, you introduce the matter more. Did you actually include these stakeholders in co-forming the document? Who did you include, by what principle did you include? Who are these lucky guys? Why did most of the public simply fall out? And so stop, stop deceiving yourself, because everything you're going through is actually far from a public debate, as it should be for such important things as key things and for the future of all of us. Now you will be wise and think that in an inspiring atmosphere behind closed doors you will be able to save our future together, and then you will say that the opposition is unconstructive. But the left is unconstructive, isn't it? The fact is that in early February the media probably did not invent this because if they obtained your internal document, then they probably obtained some other information from Brussels and actually reported that the European Commission was unhappy with our draft proposals. How many have you presented in your negotiations and how many have not, we do not know. We don't know. Why don't we know? Because you're hiding everything and you're playing tricks. The Minister has, of course, accused the media of lying, as you accuse it today, while defending yourself, Minister, that the European Commission is making unreasonable formalistic demands. How? Then why did you defend yourself, Minister, if everything was so fine with our drafts? And so on. The fact is that time for public reflection on the adequacy of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is indeed lacking. These plans will begin to be confirmed in Brussels in the spring. What will be the consequences of your secrets, your hideouts and that, I don't even hope to think about it. We'll see. We'll see. But what I'm hearing is the very view of what environmental change is, it's frightening. 37% should go into a green breakthrough. 37%. How do you understand the green breach? After what you said, I'm perfectly clear. Last July, European Union leaders decided on the so-called new Marshall Plan or some kind of new European New Deal. By 20 December, the countries, as far as we know, had to send these first drafts to Brussels. Once again, we know what these plans must be like. One of the first countries to present its draft was France. And interestingly, France presented a plan that weighs 100 billion euros, a 100 billion-dollar package of reforms that is considered exemplary among acquaintances. Why? The road and the highway, Your Honor, are simply not in the French plan. This plan is well written, focused and accurate. You will give four times more for roads than for railways within the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which clearly defines that it must go primarily into a green breakthrough, that is the main priority, 37%, 20% digital and so on. And now you're going to explain that your roads, the connections there that you mentioned earlier, are a green breakthrough. No, they didn't. In this Recovery and Resistance Plan, this has nothing to look for. You can do this through other mechanisms, but you can't explain things through this. But that's how you want to explain things. Why was the European Commission critical? According to our information, and probably this information did not come from Mars, but came from Brussels, it was critical that projects were not evaluated, that there was no clear commitment to the goals of the green and digital future. After what I hear, it probably isn't. She pointed to the fragmentation of the procedure itself, which was both secretive and conspirative. And it's still three-quarters away. For example, the fact that entrepreneurial projects have not been evalidated at all, in addition to criticism, it has been possible to note that it is not clear what Slovenia really wants, whether it wants concrete reforms or wants only money. It has also been noted that I am very sorry that the Slovenian plan is primarily about urban infrastructure management projects which have no connection with the objectives agreed at European Union level for this concrete Recovery and Resistance Plan. I understand that municipal infrastructure is important to us as a country, but not within this plan. These are not the objectives of this plan. In other words, respected people in Brussels have just recognized – that you haven't been – I don't know when those phases were, when you were talking to them, because you're always talking to each other – that obviously they haven't been satisfied enough to prepare it yet, they haven't recognized that it would be really developmental and so on. So please don't fool me. As far as dialogue with stakeholders is concerned. Why did research institutions, development agencies, NGOs, municipalities, trade unions, employers' organisations ask for these documents and not get them by 26 February when you were forced to? Because the media discovered these documents, you finally published them. Why? Were all of these involved in the vision, in our common future, of a vision for our common future? Apparently, it wasn't just some people through some Zoom conference. Do you think that's enough for this sort of thing? It's not enough. In Germany, for example, the German Development Institute DIE organizes seminars on this subject, and in Slovenia you have obviously decided to know everything and to consider the planned reforms and measures that will shape our common destiny, you will not make it difficult for you to have an excessive public debate in the next three years. You've probably done something small, so now you can fasten your hooks and say we're lying, and you're even the most truthful. But this secret bureaucratic engagement of the country's development breakthrough unfortunately means that you, in fact with some surveys, are collecting some already prepared projects across individual ministries, and you are trying to find your own justification for these projects being green, digital and to take into account the criticism of the European Commission so far. I'll give you a case. Slovenia has had a plan for a six-lane between Koses and Kozarje in Ljubljana for years. So you can put this plan on the European Commission, only officials need to figure out a little bit and find some justifications to prove that this six-lane is in line with the new objectives of the European Union. Well, that's how you understand it, and that's how you do it, obviously. Therefore, Slovenian officials have apparently sent a proposal to Brussels for a six-lane in which you have beautifully written that this, please be careful, "by reducing energy consumption and emissions, will contribute to the green transition" and that "through improved accessibility, connectivity and availability of road infrastructure it will strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion". These are very beautiful, puffy words, but behind them is not what the Recovery and Resistance Plan aims are, as the European Commission has envisioned, and for which it is willing to give money. Behind these, I'm sorry, puffed-up words there's really no green breakthrough or digital breakthrough, none of it. On the contrary, there are environmentally harmful things that are explicitly said to be wrong. For railways, public passenger transport and alternative fuels will be available – how much? 285 million euros from this “grand” package. At the same time, you anticipate €800 million of investment in roads, €611 million for the third development axis, €54 million for the extension of the Ljubljana bonds, €118 million for regional links and €21 million for the digitisation of transport infrastructure. The Minister will say again that we are lying, but the fact is that all these projects are listed in your Recovery and Resistance Plan and that they are all worth more than €800 million. It is true, however, that not all these projects will be fully financed by the Recovery Fund, but also by other means. Thus, 430 million euros will actually come from this Stability and Recovery Plan and 370 million euros will actually come from other sources. But that still does not change the fact, Minister-respected, that investments in asphalt will weigh €800 million, which is eight times more than you plan for long-term care. If I snore. The government has actually kept the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from the public for too long and prevented public debate. From the document, as it was said, the mark was removed internally only on February 26th, of course not because you would have decided to do so, but because the media forced you to do so. Those media guys who did their job, what you're at war with them for, because you don't want them to do their job to solve things that need to be solved. So, please! The fact is that it will depend, for example, on the successful planning of the use of these funds, on life saving in and outside the DSOs, on the provision of beds in hospitals, on the maintenance of employment, on the resolution of social pressures, on young people, on the elderly, on those who have landed on the road due to the crisis, on the resolution of the housing problem and so on. Therefore, planning these funds is to the greatest extent possible a matter of public importance, a respected minister, which concerns all of us. All of us. That's why it's a disaster that you've been doing this conspiracy all along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have a replica first. Mr. Ferryan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u32	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. I'm going to say three things in this replica and I'm not going to repeat myself because I'm sure you also understood what I was going to say, but you insist on yours, no harm. A lie doesn't come out on its own, and if someone says a lie, you just have to tell them who told the lie. And Luke the Moon told a lie. We have also repeatedly said what she was like, because the European Commission cannot refuse anything if it has not yet made it possible for the European Commission to decide on something or for the Member State to submit a plan. So, the obvious lie and Luke the moon told a lie. Now I have mentioned it a second time and probably several times in the previous debate, but I will not go into counting whether I have mentioned my colleague Mesca several times or the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I don't think I've done it again. That's another thing. Once again, we have received confirmation that if the Left were in power, there would be no 3rd development axis. If Levica were in power, there would be no developed transport infrastructure. And then there's the third thing. As we have also heard a few moments ago, public debate – now we also see what tolerance is, but I will not go down to this level – about 2,000 stakeholders, mayors, presidents of regional councils and agencies, the Economic and Social Council, social partners, including NGOs, this is just a few stakeholders for Levico. Now you can see what social dialogue would look like under another government, while this government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša, seeks to include as many stakeholders as possible, and, of course, when the documents are ready when the projects are ready, projects are also being implemented. We have proved this at least eight times in this anti-kronapacket mandate, people have been assisted, and this is also reflected in the economic forecast we have received and is better than expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u33	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister for a word. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u34	I will ask you again, honourable Member Natasha Sukič, what is green for you. Is it green for you to say that many people in this country still do not have water systems in place and that they drive them with tanks? Even if we make these people a water line, isn't it green? Even if we arrange sewer systems under 2,000 population units, isn't it green? What's green for you? A study on how to plant flowers and grass in the Mura basin for EUR 5 million, and at the same time from one of the municipalities where effluents are being poured out into this Mura, is being drained from a sewage treatment plant in 1974? It is important that we talk specifically about what is green. And I said, what is green to me and most people by the farmer is unfortunately not green to 100% also for the paragraphs in a regulation. And once again, Slovenia will follow the objectives that are prescribed, as prescribed. I said it over and over again: 60% of the area is green and digital, we have 40% left, and we devote 40% to all of these systems that you mentioned, I don't know why again, because they are addressed with very important resources, health care, home care, housing mainly for young people and so on, and which has been heavily fed over the last 10 years. We're addressing all of this, and we're gonna do all of this. The principle of DNSH. We have many directives on environmental protection, all of which must be respected. Why is there now a need to write another principle? Since it was determined by someone, the regulation prescribed this, we will also respect this principle, no problem. Look, there's no problem. However, formalism was adopted only on February 12th and we will adapt to that. All I'm saying is that there's some unnecessary red tape going on, and I'm behind it. But that's the way it is. We're not the only country. If others introduce all these formalisms into these documents, of course Slovenia will, there is no doubt about it and no problem. There is no conflict between connectivity as far as roads and railways are concerned. In the coming years and on the basis of the plans that this government and the competent minister for infrastructure will connect Koroška and Bela Krajina and will restore a number of railway networks. I said earlier that over €2 billion and a half will be invested in upgrading the rail network over the next 10 years, improving connectivity, improving public passenger transport services and everything else, which follows, of course, from a combination of different sources. If it were not for this unlawful public publication of the document, this document would still be of an internal nature today. But after this was published, there's no need anymore, and you've had it in your hands from the 23rd. Last 12 years. Unfortunately, today, apart from what is wrong, I have not heard any concrete proposals about how you would replace these things that are wrong. Despite the fact that the document was of an entire internal nature, these key areas were publicly communicated on a substantially broader scale than had been the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukič, you have a procedural proposal. Before I give you my word, in view of the fact that at the beginning of the debate, I will warn you that, in accordance with the agreement we have reached in the leadership of the National Assembly, we will very consistently sanction infringements of procedural proposals, because I believe that in three years we have all internalised what a procedural proposal really is. My previous warning is well-intentioned. If you really have a procedural proposal regarding the application of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my word. [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u36	I hope it's consistent. I propose procedurally that the Minister be told not to deceive [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u37	Mrs Sukič, I immediately interrupted you at this point because you had very wrongly started your procedural proposal. I warned you earlier, and I warn you, because I believe you have understood my warning, and yet you have decided to abuse the procedural proposal for a dispute with the Minister. I suggest you wait for your debate when you are still on the agenda as a member of the left-wing Group, and then you tell him. Now Mr Nik Prebil wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! I will try to respond more briefly in this introductory part to your introductory presentation and to some of the debates that have already been presented, which I think in some parts are misdirected or even misleading. Today it happened exactly what I didn't want, and what I was afraid of, so that we went into politics, speech, or better government, yours is no better, ours is no better, yours is no better is the right direction away from what was the desire to call this meeting and the proposal we made. [[…]] Minister, I would expect from you in the introduction to a content comment on the proposed alternative plan and proposals. I will be discussing in substance, as a debater, very properly and very specifically the content that I think should be in such a plan. In the manner of the party you belong to, you have taken this good opportunity to have a proper discussion in my opinion. Indeed, you have come back into a political conflict and an attack against some Members who share a different opinion with you. In several coalition positions it was heard – although there were some blockades, I do not know what blockades, this clarification could have been well provided, but – but also now from my colleague Ferjan and you, Minister, that this proposal for a plan was attended by a broad public debate. You mentioned trade unions and the Economic and Social Council and many others. Here I am reading a letter addressed to the European Commission, the President of the European Economic and Social Committee and the working group under which the six largest trade unions in Slovenia are signed, highlighting the alarming state of social dialogue in Slovenia under this government. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan states: "In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission and contrary to the reform guidelines that should be the basis for action", "the social partners so far have not had the opportunity to cooperate in its preparation" and "far away from being able to talk about the active participation of the social partners in the preparation of this document". Then where is the social dialogue here? Let's move on. The Economic and Social Council, minutes of the 334th meeting of the Council: “Members of the Economic and Social Council have also found that the social partners have not been involved in the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan.” Furthermore, 335th meeting: “The Council invited other ministries and competent ministries to invite partners to participate actively in the preparation of the areas of this plan.” 336th meeting: “The Economic and Social Council warns that the matter is placed under the internal level and calls for the withdrawal of such a marking.” Then there was also talk of some serious involvement of the mayors. I know that this meeting was, but some mayors say that the dialogue of the municipalities with the Government is entirely one-way – in the interests of the Government, of course. Minister and colleague Ferryan, where is this cooperation, and who is lying and deceiving here now? So that I don't read again on Twitter once again from Kopriva, once there from one Fox, that we're rude, that we're lying, that we're incompetent, and we have no idea. That's ignorant. And I really don't want to go just into political debate, because the document before us is essential to the future of society than we are to argue here with each other. That's why I'm moving on. In his opening presentation, Comrade Horvat said that this was the third most important national consensus. I can fully agree with him here. But as we say, how does this government imagine a national consensus? Complaining at home, abroad? By disrespecting everything proposed by the opposition? By ignoring all proposals, dialogue, insulting anyone who has a different opinion? You know, populism and polarization have really gotten serious in this room, and that's not good for the country. Regardless of all, there is an alternative proposal ahead of us – and I really want to – despite the fact that we are putting well-intentioned criticism to the Government, we are talking, not least of all, about these proposals – a journey forward that allows for a better future for all of us together. I may be able to link myself to some other areas that have been exposed. Measures for young people. Of course, many new apartments will be built in the short term, but this is thanks to the previous government, this is thanks to the government of Marjan Šarca, who transferred land from DUTB to the Housing Fund and regulated a number of other areas for young people, where much more attention has been given than before and as you are now devoting it. In my opinion, however, there is still little, but much more. Then there was talk about the roads. Comrade Ferjan said, "You don't want roads, you don't want connections." Far from it, that's not even true! I strongly support the construction of the 3rd development axis – and, among other things, this project, which has been standing for a very very long time, has been launched by the government of Marjan Šarc and now you are continuing it, which is the only right thing. But what I want to tell you is that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan has historical resources that we will never see again, and with these resources we can take a significantly bigger step in many other areas, for which there is no money in the country. It's for roads in the country. We can use our own resources to do that. I'm for the greening of the freeway area, I'm for the renovation of roads and for the construction of those that are the most remote and cannot reach the highway cross that leads to city bumps, but to Dars. Dars is responsible, Dars is the one who takes care of these areas that the state has given him a mandate to do so. And we all pay for it. When Dars collects our contributions for the reconstruction of roads, for the ride on these roads, Dars can build all these roads on his own. However, the national plan or money linked to this plan should ensure that the whole reform, i.e. greening road transport, sustainable mobility and speeding up transport for rail transport, is carried out. This is a different objective where the LMŠ, the Government and the parties sitting in the KUL differ significantly. In order not to propose, I would like to save some more time for any replicas, and I will discuss the whole content when I come in line as a debater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u40	Thank you. For a while, so do I. Two discussions were held at the level of the Economic and Social Council in the past, November and December, with four members. The next meeting is scheduled to take place within a week so that this dialogue takes place. Some have raised the material to the SVRK, so that the information provided by individuals does not make me aware of what they are doing. I don't think there is any right dialogue in preparing this document. Similarly, when it was said that some mayors had said that the dialogue was one-way. I don't know what he was like, he was virtual, all the mayors, almost all the mayors, and more times, not just once. They said what they wanted. If this was said by Mr Jevšek of Murska Sobota, who is the visible representative of the Social Democrats, it may have been a one-way dialogue for him, but I remember that he has asked only one question at these many meetings, and this is how it is with the financial perspective 2021-2027 and so on. Whoever wanted to engage in this dialogue had engaged in the dialogue and no one had been forced to discuss it. As far as historical means are concerned. I've said it more than once. A billion 600 grants under the recovery plan and 3 billion 200 under the multiannual transitional financial framework. So much for this history. What is important and what is historic if we take this opportunity is whether we agree to make certain changes in this society and the country. Changes that are mainly for the benefit of people, especially young people. These are changes in education, which are then also linked to the labour market, in the area of debirocratisation, where the state and businesses are suffocating in excessive bureaucracy, in the area of health care, because people are unable to access health services in a normal manner, in order to finally eliminate these waiting types, in order to have normal health care in the care of older people, in the area of services available to people at home, in the sense that they can stay at home, in the homes of those who can no longer stay at home, and so on. These are the fundamental issues and I have therefore spoken in connection with these reforms on the blockade of the demographic fund. If this process continues as you did in the parties who convened this meeting, they will stop, but this process will be delayed, and people will suffer every month when it is postponed. For all that is put down, and the changes that are made for the benefit of men, are put aside, is bad for men.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Prebil asked for the text again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm just going to give a brief replica to the minister. Minister, I now make it very clear here that we agree and that we have a goal that goes towards the future of Slovenia and its development, all of which are exactly the same. The problem is how to achieve this goal. In our view, your goal, which stands at the same time, is to see where certain problems have arisen — perhaps a somewhat harsh statement that the matter has been rejected, but certainly not very well received. The Commissioner for Economy made a statement, where he said that Slovenia recommends that it focus a little better on the preparation of the plan and do not rush with it. But all the time, you somehow want to make it feel like it's Members and Members that we're now because we're debating this, somehow guilty if something gets stuck. Not at all. Far from it. Minister, you have a team of many people in the back who can work on this without any difficulty, you are a political person and here you answer our questions and what is before us today. That's why I don't see any trouble here at all about anything. As a matter of fact, I can easily say here, Minister, the problems must be in the frame. By all accounts, not only should your ministry be renamed, but it should also become the ministry as it is, not half as much as you are now. Last time the government sent us an answer here that she couldn't deal with the code secretly because she wouldn't give it. Then you say you took it away. Are you part of the government or not? These are the questions that point to some doubt and some duality of what we are talking about today. As I say, I don't want to go around, really not that we're going to fight here right now and go from the point of view, I want to talk substantively, and, as I say, I will do so in the debate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u44	As far as Commissioner Gentiloni is concerned. In the past, Commissioner Gentiloni has had a very unfortunate involvement in our internal political affairs when he challenged the appointment of the Director of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a completely internal political theme. I hope that these views are not related to the fact that Peter Petan, the daughter of Bojan Petan, who owns the Diary, who writes strongly about our plans and everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Proposer Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u46	It's really short. Minister, what is the point of this debate in what we are talking about today? Come on, if you're talking about somebody not getting involved in internal affairs, then you're not wearing internal politics on the European floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u47	We continue the debate. The next debate is Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mr Matjaž Germany is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the recovery and resilience mechanism, the RRF Fund, which is a key instrument under the Next Generation EU instrument. This mechanism will play a key role in helping Europe recover from the economic and social consequences of the pandemic and will also contribute to greater resilience of European economies and societies and to ensuring a green and digital transition. To draw up the funds from this fund, we need to draw up a national recovery and resilience plan. The structure of this plan mechanism is based on six pillars. I'm not gonna count them. We've heard a lot about what they have to follow. I would point out, however, that all pillars are equally important and that these projects should be intertwined or intertwined, and that a government plan should also be designed. The alternative plan that we have drawn up in the LMŠ together with other opposition parties takes into account all these parameters, including an extremely important link between financial resources from the State budget, the multiannual financial framework, cohesion, we know that we can also count on EIB, EBRD and also domestic SID banks. These findings, which we are hearing, that the alternative plan is only prepared on 30 pages – of course, the KUL coalition does not have state apparatus and access to all data in order to prepare a comprehensive alternative plan, which was not intended. However, it is a good basis for constructive debate and also for harmonisation, so that we can jointly draw up a good plan, which we will send to the European Union, as it is not least a plan and a resource for all Slovenians and Slovenes. The bottom-up approach is okay if you know where you're going, but obviously, according to the plan you're seeing, this government doesn't know exactly where you're going, because it looks like the projects are all too fragmented. Plans and projects should be prepared with cross-cutting cooperation. Let's say that one minister says he's going to build roads and railways to reduce the flow of traffic, and on the other hand he's not talking to the minister, how and how emissions will be reduced. This is not right and we know that the mechanism also foresees, and this is one of the main objectives to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Otherwise, I did not want to highlight or discuss how the Multiannual Financial Framework was negotiated for 2021-2027, but I was challenged by my colleague Horvat when he said how the government of Janez Janša negotiated for VFO 2021-2027. It is necessary to say that budgets are not discussed half a year before the budget itself, but these negotiations started in Brussels in 2018 and the end of 2017. At that time, information came informally from Brussels, which was bad for Slovenia. In fact, a 50% reduction in cohesion funds was envisaged, especially for Western Slovenia. Surely, then, the final spoil is not the success of John Janša, as is now being shown. The point is that the problem was identified in time and an expert committee or negotiating group was set up in the beginning. At that time, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec briefed the President of the European Council, Michel, on these specifications and key requirements, on a number of occasions. In negotiations for RRF funds, it must also be said that there are no losers in terms of finance. The distribution of funds was by objective method and no major purchases could be negotiated by any State. Slovenia will be able to draw €5.2 billion from the fund and the funds will be in the form of grants, as we know, of 1.6 billion and in the form of loans of 3.6 billion. We need to draw up a national plan for pumping, like all the other members. We all know that this national plan must pursue three key objectives. The first objective is to take into account the reform reports of Europe, so we must make certain reforms. We have heard many times today that obviously one of the reforms is also a national demographic fund. The national demographic fund is linked to the pension fund, but we know it is as designed as it is, only harmful for the country. Obviously, the Government is in a hurry because I would also like to include this national demographic fund in a partial pension reform, which we also need to make. Another key objective is that at least 37% of the expenditure should be earmarked for the investment objectives of the green transition and at least 20% of the expenditure should be channelled towards digital transition. These are the three key objectives that we must pursue in the preparation of the national plan. The Regulation, which entered into force, I believe that yesterday or today, which is a condition for drawing on funds, lays down a series of safeguards that do not allow funds to be used in a transparent or inconsistent manner with the plan. The Regulation also provides that only countries that respect the rule of law and the fundamental values of the European Union will benefit from the recovery and resilience mechanism. We know that there has been quite a bit of talk, and perhaps just an explanation of what this respect for the rule of law means. This does not mean that Member States that do not respect the rule of law would be limited in obtaining funds, but it is who will distribute these funds. In the event that a given country violates the rule of law, it will not have the opportunity to distribute and dispose of these resources alone, but the beneficiaries will have to address the role directly to the European Commission – and this applies to all mechanisms – but not to us, in particular, to the SVR. I hope that this government is aware, but in a broader social consensus, this is a unique opportunity for Slovenia to build a better future. For the first time in the history of Europe, the European Union, as a single political entity, will be in charge of financial markets and will then directly finance the Member States. This is a sign of solidarity and unity between Member States. Therefore, for the first time in European history, the European Parliament will take over the supervisory function and will regularly monitor how this money will be spent. As we know or have already mentioned, we have 1.6 billion grants available and 3.6 billion loans that will go to our public debt if we use them. The grants will not go into our public debt, but that does not mean that they are free, or that they are heard to be grants and that they will not have to be repaid. We will repay the grants with our own resources, and this will begin to return in 2026. What does that mean? At EU level, we will still need to agree on what our own resources are, and with these resources we will refund grants in the form of future taxes. These taxes will then not fill our cash register, but the European tax. A few suggestions are already on the table as to what these own resources are supposed to be. It will certainly be a digital tax, then it is supposed to be carbon or carbon, so it is all the more important for Slovenia to really include projects that will bring climate neutrality into its national recovery and resilience plan, because otherwise we will pay too much taxes. Its own resources are also intended to be packaging or plastics, as well as financial transactions. Since the government of Janez Janša is already heavily in charge of the CAP and the public debt is increasing extremely rapidly, the fastest in Europe, this government should be even more careful about how this money will be spent. If she doesn't, there's another debt crisis ahead of us. There is a difference between credible or good debts and their contradiction. Only low interest rates or negative interest rates, which are no longer available, cannot be a guarantee of sustainability and debt eligibility. If we invest in people's investments, critical infrastructure and research, these are good debts. If, contrary to this debt, they are used for non-productive purposes, which do not bring long-term added value, these are poor debts, thereby weakening the sustainability of the debt and the public financial image. The European Commission will be extremely consistent here. Finally, the non-productive use of debts will be harmful not only to Slovenia but also to Europe as a whole. Unfortunately, the Government's National Recovery and Resistance Plan has been completely unfounded and has long been marked internally. The label was withdrawn only a few days ago, not for the purpose of doing so for Slovenia, but because this national plan was published in the media, in the magazine Mladina. The plan should be made public from the first day and should include all key stakeholders, in particular due to the good preparation of projects, trust and transparency and the future development of Slovenia. The fact is that the preparation of the plan was not carried out in the context of a broader debate and the involvement of all stakeholders, which should be the case, as it is the development money of Slovenia and the money of all citizens and of all citizens. After all, we'll all return it. There were some people in tight circles and from the very beginning, as I said, marked internal. Finally, the EU Regulation establishing the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism obliges us to consult stakeholders. So your government's actions can affect the European Commission's marking of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as inappropriate. In the absence of a proper consultation process, this may not finally happen. Indeed, the representatives of the European Commission have already made public or expressed concern that the document was not produced in cooperation with the social partners. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is currently one of the most important documents in Slovenia, as we have all heard many times today, and should therefore be adopted in a broader social consensus. This is about the developmental transformation of Slovenia over the next decade, so it is important how we decide to move in a smart direction. This should not be a question of the left, right, but of whether we are going to the 21st century, whether we are going to deal with investment and 20th century issues. A key story should be the transition to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and we all know that through these means, which could or should be a development breakthrough for Slovenia and Europe, the cards will be divided into new ones. In any case, they will be divided into new ones, who will produce something in the future and what will not be, and what will be the standard of countries in the coming years. If we miss this train – and the fact is that we are already late, it is necessary to say that we are missing at least one cohesion in Slovenia, which is why there is also a need and a desire for such construction of certain roads and infrastructures. Also due to too slow changes and reforms in the past and too low investments, Slovenia can write poorly. Here, too, the government of Janez Janša has a problem, such investments investing in science, development breakthroughs and digitisation, which also need to be said that there is no future, but there is already a present, not showing results today or in the next elections, but rather showing this by various sidewalks, circulars, and, as is often heard today, concrete. We are talking about recovery and resilience, about the developmental breakthrough of Slovenia, how we will get out of this crisis, how we will live in the future, and it is indeed a unique opportunity. Never again or we do not know when we will still have enough resources to spend on the future and development. We all agree, and neither do we oppose the construction of roads and sidewalks and circulars and these matters, but as we have heard today about roads — why are we not building them with our own resources? The roads can really build Dars because he has his own resources, because then we get back with the tolls. Let us use these funds available from this fund to make better investments. Economic and labour market conditions will deteriorate, even when all the CAPs are no longer in force. We all know that more serious social policy programmes will be needed, which will go far beyond merely mitigating the consequences of the crisis and some social candy. If I finish. The competition for funds will be difficult and unforgivable. In particular, because it will be crucial to draw on these funds quickly and efficiently, public financial consolidation will inevitably follow. We must not afford to see Slovenia back in the late group, as this will have extremely negative economic and social effects on Slovenia. Once again, I hope that this government, together with the coalition, is aware that it bears responsibility. At present, we have no other option in the LMŠ and all the opposition, because we are not involved in the preparation of any documents, but we have only the chance to point out this, and we can only wish that you could hear us in a fraction and take into account our suggestions and warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u50	Thank you. I think three things need to be answered. First of all, about Dars. The majority of the funding for the development of the motorway network is Darsa’s funds, or toll assets, and the remaining resources, of course, are complemented by other resources. With regard to public debt, excessive increase, especially in the short timeframe, may pose a problem. That is why I do not understand why you are proposing three times as much debt in your proposal as in the current plan. I don't understand that. With regard to the financial framework 2021-2027. I do not know what happened during the time of the government, but I do know that at the start of the negotiations on 17 July, the proposal was on the table, which was about half a billion worse than the proposal negotiated four days later, on 21 July. Regarding the rule of law, regarding the rule of law. Slovenia will indeed have a problem, because if the prosecution does not pursue the threats identified by the death of the Prime Minister of the Government, who are constantly repeating themselves, and does not process these acts, then Slovenia can actually have problems on this path.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u51	We continue the debate. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Nothing's free and nothing's free. These frustrations, when we talk about Janša, are also unnecessary at a time when we are talking about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Such escapades only show the state of the spirit of those who constantly offer the hand of dialogue. As the opposition and all stakeholders involved want to contribute their knowledge, their behaviour towards the situation, we are, of course, marked with all kinds and forms of insults. The Recovery and Resistance Mechanism and the Slovenian Connections, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, as the central part of the Next Generation of the EU instrument, makes available almost €672 billion in loans and grants to support reforms and investments carried out by the Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Slovenia. So it's some form of Marshall's plan or, as some have said, some forms of social dialogue or social contract when we're talking about our future. Without excluding anyone, but unfortunately in the Republic of Slovenia this is not the case, so the paradoxical opposition was forced to refer to a meeting on a topic that is being discussed openly in most other European Member States, of course by creating added value, especially in the search for those multipliers that are shaped by the investments and reforms called for by this document. It is about helping the European economy and society as such to make it more sustainable, more resilient and more ready for challenges and opportunities, especially when we are talking about green, about digital transition. Member States must prepare all appropriate plans to avoid, for example, the experiences of the previous financial crisis, which was so painful for the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens when the then government of Janez Janša decided to use the so-called Zujf, which meant, in a sense, that the philosophy or concept of belt tightening prevailed over the concept that the European Union today put into use by Member States where it would generate, as has already been said, multiple effects. The bitter taste is in the consideration of this document. Why? The government, one of the few in the European Union, has prevented the public from accessing this act, which is so important. We are talking about 5.6 billion euros, we are talking about half of the budget, which has clear guidelines – I am talking mainly about guidelines that, as we say, encourage a wide range of stakeholders to encourage some of the development of society, the development of those priorities that we set ourselves in terms of the future. That is why we have made certain recommendations in the opposition. One thing, as has already been said, has been eliminated or taken into account, but not because of the government’s coherence and cooperation, but because the government was forced to do so. The tag was secretly removed. Of course, the Government is very fond of talking about the dialogue it has with many stakeholders, and precisely because of the non-dialogue, it has recommended number two, which we have prepared with the Social Democrats and the entire opposition to criticise the stakeholders – whom am I talking about? – I am talking about universities, trade unions, employers' associations, local communities, development agencies, regionals, including the Government of all these stakeholders in a serious dialogue. This does not mean a dialogue, as you ministers mention, to be heard and then this instruction is followed, but dialogue also means that the proposed measures are taken into account, included, addressed and actually included all the knowledge that we are going through as a society in the Republic of Slovenia, so that we are building together with a concept that is certainly not pointing a finger at another, such as the case of a minister who blames Commissioner Gentiloni when he criticises the content proposed by the current government, or when we are talking in general about the rule of law and criticism by Commissioner Jourov. As we treat the Commissioners, as we are critical of those who are critical of us, I speak on behalf of the State, so our government projects all its thoughts through criticism of them. I would like to highlight one aspect, which the European Commission likes to point out in particular – that this is not a shopping list of investments where a member of structural reforms, such as long-term care or health reform, or the financing of science, the regulation of public rents, housing, the environmental commitment, would not take into account. It is therefore a strategic and developmental definition of policies, as has already been said, which are common to European values and, of course, to the needs of each Member State. Therefore, in the opposition, we have drawn up an alternative national plan, which in our own language is mainly concerned with solidarity, we are talking about the establishment of long-term care, as has already been said, or the construction of public rental apartments, for example, health at another point where we are talking about increasing public health capacity, or when we are talking about a programme to reduce waiting lines or upgrade an infection clinic, as the Minister has said, even in the programme itself. Or the third point, the environment, energy and earthquake recovery, or the fourth point of development itself, more money for research and development. Here the Republic of Slovenia does not have or at least the Government has not shown an excessive affinity. I am talking about health, solidarity, the environment, development and the common consensus that politics, especially those in power, must seek. I'm only going to touch one segment, and that's the environment. In fact, personally in this initiative, I miss a slightly clearer view in these documents when we are talking about partnership, namely the environmental and climate circular economy. We are talking about the implementation of the constitutional right to clean and drinking water, we are talking about raising environmental standards for co-incineration of waste or the prohibition of fracking by which it is mag. Dean Jedhan, my colleague, is tirelessly engaged. Or when we are talking about the commitment to reduce, resolve access and develop quality monitoring. The second part lacks a little more content in managing the climate crisis, such as the adoption of the Climate Policy Act or energy and earthquake recovery of public and private individual, multi-housing facilities, and incentives for the introduction of green technologies in industry, green planning, energy storage and the development of new technologies, which, of course, also fall under development. The law on the closure of Velenje coal mines is, for example, one of the social problems in relation to ecology, as far as the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. A very large package, the largest financial package so far, not only in one percent of the Republic of Slovenia, or less than one percent, but this scope concerns all members of the European Union. We have never adopted such a package, and this requires a wider social consensus. As a Member, I would expect a little more in-depth discussions in the National Assembly. The same is true of all the stakeholders I have previously listed, who are offered a one-way dialogue, but, as they say, not of communication that produces certain fruits. The government, by wanting to keep the mark internally until the last, and by not wanting to encourage dialogue in the National Assembly, unfortunately gives the impression that it is preparing a document in the background that would serve not the wider Slovenian society, but the partial political interests. For 5.2 billion and more, that must be unacceptable. That is why today's debate is more than appropriate and let the words of the President of the Government become meat when you say you are constantly giving your hand. Today is one of many opportunities for you to do so. Our suggestions are sincere, well-meaning, and well-prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u54	Thank you very much. When I talked about not leaving anyone behind and that no part of Slovenia would be abandoned, I was serious. Here I am looking at this list of projected investment intentions by the Social Democrats. In this proposal, where what is actually more or less copied from this plan – the German Member comes from a bitter end – I do not find Šempeter Hospital near Gorica on this list of SDs, which surprises me. Our plan provides for a comprehensive energy renovation of the Šempeter hospital at Novi Gorica, 7 million euros. The German MP knows very well what the object is. The accommodation conditions in this facility are inappropriate and this investment will be made in the first three years, according to no later than the end of 2023. So I invite you to support this plan, too, because there's more to it than what you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Replica colleague Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u56	Thank you, Minister. Surely encouraging words, especially on the day when it comes to the fact that all our public or key public institutions are in a relatively good financial situation. Just as together, Minister Cernač, we have achieved that today we have several urgent blocks across Slovenia, this was a comprehensive political project, so we can welcome any intention to strengthen public and affordable health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u57	Thank you very much. This isn't a replica after all. It was a debate. Member Miha Kordiš has the floor and will be discussed by Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The two basic concepts of how to be built are already summarised in the name. First of all, it's a national plan. That's the first point. This is not the plan of Minister Černač, this is not the plan of Janez Janša, nor is the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The national plan should be seen as a citizens' plan. Sadly, the government of John Janša did not treat him this way. She accepted it practically quietly, we can say, away from the public's eyes, he was locked up for public intervention. This public debate, which they are referring to today, has in fact not been a public debate. They had some discussions, some presentations very quickly, more to carry out the process than to actually form some civil consensus, and then with a plan they rushed on. In short, it is very difficult for us to talk about a national plan, let alone a citizens' plan. Only through a broad discussion could coordination be able to diagnose what development priorities are in this country and find a broad political cooperation not only in the National Assembly but also throughout society, and this has not happened. Rather, the government put all the documentation in the drawer, or when she took it out of this drawer, she took it out of the public eye. This brings me to another part of the concept, which should be included in the national plan, but it is not. Because it's a recovery and resistance plan. It is EUR 5 billion, which are not here to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, but to keep us under surveillance through the covida-19 epidemic, and in this same process they will respond to pressing social problems, to developmental backlogs, to climate breakdown and so on. There is no such recovery and resistance in the national plan of the government of Janez Janša. This is documentation without a concept, and that is why ladies and gentlemen of the government have also been hiding it from criticism. First of all, they took a set of local projects that had not previously been implemented from European funds or were not realized for such and other reasons, all of which had disappeared into one small one, I repeat, without any concept, and they called it the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. As additional funds remained, the government of Janez Janša, with SDS at the helm, did all it could. She poured concrete and asphalt over these local projects. What's left of it, they sprayed a little bit of it, a little bit of it into health care, a little bit of it into the railroads. Is this really some vision of this country's future for, say, the next 10 years that we can conceptually discuss? No, of course we can't because it's a bunch of pretty patches and not a development concept. What I would expect, for example, is to find answers to developmental questions and questions about the welfare of citizens and citizens, but unfortunately, the following topics are not at the top of the list. Health care has been suffering for decades from underinvestment in Slovenian health care, comparatively very few resources are invested in building a public health system. This public health system holds and leads us through the covida-19 epidemic. How would the government of Janez Janša strengthen him to reward him? With this national recovery and resilience plan, EUR 200 million. There is as much funding for the health sector allocated to the government document at a total of €5 billion as the national plan is difficult. So, health is certainly not a priority for the government, but I think that all citizens and citizens know that, in fact, as far as social needs are concerned, that is for sure. One such very painful social need, which we have also been alerting in Levica for years, is care, homes for the elderly, if you want. Twelve thousand elderly people are waiting for the kind of home care, the number is increasing very quickly, or it has increased in recent years, beds are missing, there is no serious investment. The government of Janez Janša has also taken over these investments by failing to capture them, but it has turned the care of the elderly into business and new cities in the homes of the elderly and the construction of new homes to the private to earn money from the distresses of the elderly, instead of treating the safe age as the right of the valet as something that is treated in the context of solidarity, not in the context of business. For this care of the elderly, for the homes of the elderly and both in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, under which the Government is signed, we find a fight of 100 million euros, in fact. On the other hand, these equations were also drawn by short - term youths, young people, and their housing pressures. We have a severe deficit, 10,000 non-profit public rentals are missing in this country. This number is also increasing, and it is also not on the government's priority list. And finally, I end up with a point that might even be the first, that's climate damage. Minister Cernač made it very clear earlier that he did not really believe in climate change, at least not that there was a human factor behind it. What is counter-scientific, of course, is one form of denial of climate change and climate damage, which serves one and only one thing, it is that the business “as usual” continues and capital can continue to serve. Because if we want to adapt to climate damage or even better, we need massive public investment if we are to do everything we can to prevent and mitigate it in advance. Massive public investment requires funds. To get these funds, you have to be taxed and taken where it is. Where is he? With the capital and the rich. Of course, the right-wing tribunal does not want to do this, so it prefers to resort to conspiracy theories that climate change and climate breaking do not actually exist, or to another version that it is not a human factor that drives them. In this National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we find less than €300 million going to the railways. Remember, road traffic is one of the main generators of greenhouse emissions and environmental pollution. One technically developed alternative that we have in front of our noses, which only needs to be used, is railway infrastructure. On the other hand, the government has found a poor billion euros in resources to channel them into concrete or asphalt to invest them in roads in short. I do not object to additionally connecting regions that are remote and already have nothing, but to do so from the national budget where this is really necessary. However, what the National Recovery and Resistance Plan calls itself and is a vision of Slovenian society for the next 10 years must first and foremost include rail transport and not new motorway sections. For all of these priorities, which I have listed, if I have put together the funds correctly, we will reach about half a billion euros in funding – the basic social priorities that are worth 10% of the total EUR 5 billion to the Government. It seems completely unheard of to me and I see in this kind of absence of some competent behaviour by the Government wasting a historic moment for some developmental breakthrough. Finally, under the very tragic circumstances of the covida-19 epidemic, restrictions at European Union level have been eased concerning the financing of individual countries, debt, investment, support for the economy and so on – these restrictions are already so meaningless, the gold rule has been repealed, and this gold rule is meaningless – and we have access to finance. We have access to direct public investment in the prevention of climate damage, prosperity and development. But this is the historic moment that the government of John Janša has decided to throw him away. Instead of investing in some social needs and development priorities, these European funds, as I said, will invest in a small number of local projects, in building roads and further expanding motorways, is said to increase redundancies, not what people here and now would need in this strategic sense of the vision of social development. And it is not the first time that we have the power of Janez Janša and that there is a rare developmental opportunity and historic moment through the window. Recall the first government of Janez Janša, when the euro was introduced, European credits were extremely cheap. It was sufficient for the State to channel it meaningfully towards social development, technological upgrading of its production chains, strengthening the public health system or solidarity subsystems and so on. But what happened? The tycoons happened. These cheap loans, those cheap euros, which were then available under the first government of John Janša, did not shift to technological investment, to a development breakthrough or anything of social value, focused on Taiwan's takeovers with the political wisdom of the government of Janez Janša, who also changed the legislation in such a way that it enabled these Taiwanese acquisitions. All of this, however, was supported by cheap finances flowing from the introduction of the euro. Consequences? Overheating the economy. And the following is the result: an economic break that started on the other side of the Atlantic in the financial sector. But the fact that we had a developmental opportunity, and it was thrown aside in the project of trying to create a domestic private capital elite, has deepened this crisis in Slovenia. We were not prepared for it as we might have been, because we had stepped in the backdrop, and the resources that could have gone to defeat this developmental backlog were consumed by the Taiwanese acquisitions. The final result? A bank hole that we saved with the money of all citizens and citizens. As if this has not yet been harmful enough, we now have the government of Janez Janša again, again without our own merit we have the opportunity for cheap lending, for prudent investment, for a development breakthrough, to respond to the problems that plague our society, the elderly, because they do not have a place in their homes, young people, because they cannot reach their homes, and so on for decades. But what? Instead, we have a document without a concept and we have a government without a course.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The debate was broad, broad, much more substantial than in any other member of the European Union. Local projects will also be financed through calls for proposals through the RRF, and I don't know why they wouldn't be. This is a number of projects that will improve supply in the local field and which are moving towards the development of the whole country. Of course, there is no specific project in this document because it cannot be. Some need to present things graphically, because apparently the texts are not enough. That's it. [[shows the object]] was a development concept for the last 10 years. Do you want to continue with this development concept for the next 10 years? To NGOs 706 million, to parents, to children, to young people for housing and all the rest of that amount. We will not proceed with this concept. I told you before, nothing would be wrong if you were out of it. [[shows the object]] three times the value added from this [[shows the object]] But there's no added value here, but here it's multiple and this is where the support goes. The funds will go to the people. For it is unacceptable that only NGOs based on Metelkov 6 have received more funding in the last 10 years than has been allocated to student homes for construction. As far as health care and everything. Here, too, it is obvious that images need to be displayed because only words do not count. Domestic care – grossly neglected. The Minister of Social Democrats led this ministry from 2013 to 2018, and no additional city was on the concessional network or on the public network. This year, a thousand 285 cities were allocated to be awarded in the next three to four years. From the funds provided for under the RRF and the other mechanisms and from the budget, which provides for 30 million in 2020 and 2021, an additional 500 to 2 000 seats in the public network will be provided. For this reason please, but you have not done – some of the candidates you have been a number of years in the government – what you should do should be done now. It would be a good idea if you all supported it, not to trouble yourself. I have to say, I don't understand. Infectious clinic Ljubljana, Maribor – things have been delayed for years and years. All hospitals across the regions are expected to receive co-financing. This approach, which has been taken, has been taken on the one hand within the framework of the formal commitments that we must fulfil because we are part of the European Union, and this means that we have 60% of the funds committed. If we are smart, we will also use 60% of the funds that go green and digital, smart and useful, and another 40%, where there are essential reinforcements of health systems, long-term education and housing. I said earlier that there are 2 000 300 dwellings to be completed by the end of 2023 and that the programme, which the Government will address in a short time, only from the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia by 2025 provides for an additional 3 to 4 thousand rental apartments, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. I hope it's a replica, there won't be a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u62	There will certainly be a replica, and it will be brief, because Minister Chernač misunderstood me. I have not focused my discussions on individual projects as much as I have focused on the fact that the entire National Recovery and Resistance Plan does not have any development concept. But he doesn't have it because your government doesn't have any other heading than to sit on a state manger and stay there as long as possible. Your incompetence is reflected in this deficit in the development document, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. As a result, you are throwing away the historical moment and Slovenia will be crying for the developed countries no matter how many images you are waving here, because you obviously do not understand the concept of development.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I hope that someone will also offer any addition to this content. Andrej Černigoj has the word, after which he will receive the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished Secretary of State! Today, in the National Assembly, we are discussing a proposal for a recommendation on the preparation of a national recovery and resilience plan. I look forward to each dialogue because both parties can be equally represented in the dialogue. In this esteemed congregation, there has been a great deal of dialogue in this esteemed house for this area. I must say that I am today's fifth debater and it shows that we have been discussing for almost 30 minutes for four hours. As I said, both sides can be equally represented in the debate, in which case I can say that the coalition and the opposition. Before continuing the debate, I would like to thank Minister Cernac very much for his hard work and good work in preparing a recovery plan. The Secretary of State, Ms Kirbiš Royce, who, on her expert salary, has made sure that the document is a good one, and this also makes it very precise, which is why I must say that I can also be very calm. Here I must say that I would really like to commend the Minister's presentation on the committee itself, not because we are both Primors, but because the Minister is very well prepared and the document represents some bright future for Slovenia. At first, I would focus on some financial framework. Slovenia will be able to benefit from up to €5.2 billion in investments under the Recovery and Resistance Plan by the end of 2026, worth €5 billion 200 million, of which € 1.6 billion and €3.6 billion in return. Here I would really like to commend the current government and also the coalition, which has managed to recover additional funds, half a billion euro of additional resources, which is not enough to help the development of Slovenia in any way. So here we have only positive stories that we will be able to use in the extraordinary development framework 2021-2027. In my life I worked at home on a vineyard farm, I worked in a small and also a medium and large company, which I also worked for a while on the international floor. I must say, as I am now observing dialogue in this Chamber, to see that we are essentially having a systemic problem. As I have already mentioned, I work most of my life in diplomacy, it is said in Slovenia and also in the international, and I must say that this is an event that I have been observing for quite some time today, and I do not want to be overstepped by all the guidelines of some diplomacy. I am aware that this is also a political floor and that everyone advocates their way of working, but I think that on such a package, in a document such as the Recovery and Resistance Plan, we should exempt this political component, because I think that this is not a playground, who will win, who will be better, but I think we must all look at the welfare of Slovenia. I must say that I do not see such a way of working in foreign media, foreign diplomacy, foreign policy, in other Member States of the European Union and not taking note. I note that we are mostly harming ourselves and, above all, damaging the future of our common country. Here, as I have warned before, I would suggest – I think that in Slovenia, in this esteemed assembly, the lack of dialogue – in particular, that we listen to each other, and perhaps also that we should talk more often, like other countries, other diplomacys, behind closed doors, to speak out openly, and especially that we are talking on the principle of chatham house, this means that the next second is not all in the media, but that we are able to agree behind closed doors, every little discount and then we go into a light and a better future. I hope that this will happen in this house, as it does elsewhere, after other European Union parliaments. But hope dies last. As I have already said, I have also worked abroad, and for example, I would like to have a follow-up: the opposition asks the government for a government plan, the government sends a recovery plan, the opposition examines and at a joint meeting with the government mediates its proposals if the government or coalition does not respond, the opposition goes public and comments on its proposals. Here, in our country, we have the picture upside down: the opposition goes public with its proposal without coordination with the coalition, the government, says that the government's plan is bad, and then some discussers expect, some even require that their proposals be taken into account. I am aware that those who try to live a family life are aware that those who do so at home know that this way the family will not be compatible. It's not a recipe for success. That's it. As far as the publication of the document is concerned. On this page, I would like to thank you for having just come to the hall, including the first debater for a new and fresh approach to the initial debate, also a bit wicked in works, which I welcome and welcome. If we keep going to the debate. My personal opinion is, a press release – and I think the proposaler agrees with me – I am very worried. I'm very worried. Recently, we have had Members' education on how to deal with confidential documents marked internally, confidentially and so on, and in what has happened, I see a serious threat that should be condemned by everyone in this Chamber. I hope that some authorities will look into the matter and see if it was possible, perhaps I am wrong, for the crime. But like I said, I think we should all try to condemn this in this room together. Colleagues and colleagues, this is also my proposal to condemn jointly. In this place, I also support the Minister, who, after these documents were published, also decided to publish them on the website as a result of this event. Personally, this publication in this print medium smells like political activism, but judge for yourself. If we go to the main eyewitnesses that the proponents and the opposition have. I've got all these readings in three points, if I may. The first observation is the degree of confidentiality internally. I'd really like to highlight a few things here. I looked online at all the possible Member States, and I found three countries that, to put it mildly, did not want to be a grave, published some small booklets, namely Portugal, Greece, Spain, perhaps some other country was found, and there is a slightly larger document in Italy where the document clearly contains internal use. It is said that other countries do the same as the government did. The second observation, in addition to secrecy, is that this document was not in a broad debate. On the contrary, there has been no such presentation of this document in the past. I agree that there has never been such a document before, and I agree with that, but there have not been such discussions, so high, so wide, so wide a set of stakeholders, twice a consultation with mayors and directors of regional development agencies. Here I must welcome my local directors, the regional development agencies, they called me, they gave me positive opinions, they were surprised that they were involved in the dialogue. So I only have positive information from the field, connotations, were positively surprised. Then I must point out that for the first time in this Parliament, in the current composition of the government, he has been convened with all the councils and development councils in the 12 development regions, the Economic and Social Council. Then the online expert advice, we young people say that these are the web-based web-based engineers, where the funds will be in 2021-2027, there were a thousand 300 participants on the website. Mr Prebil and I were at the conference of the Portuguese Presidency. For my debate and my position, I had a precise assessment, you will not believe, as much time as the European Members are discussing, for exactly a minute. And I said a lot if they wanted to understand me. But I could talk for two hours, but I wouldn't say anything. I don't think the government has refused any written product, no written initiative. If we move forward, there have also been separate meetings with social partners, meetings with NGOs. When I said earlier that I would like the opposition to ask the government for a plan – if the opposition parties, if the proposer asked for it, for this meeting, I think I would get it 100 percent. I really don't believe those eyes around here. As broad a debate as the current government, the Minister and also a coalition with a debate on the internal document as all Member States in the European Union have – I do not think there has been such a debate in the European Union. As I mentioned earlier, the Recovery and Resistance Plan is essentially new, for the first time for both the Member States and the European Commission. Here I liked one sentence that I read: the Commission is learning in parallel with the Member States. The European Commission is also learning in parallel as Member States are learning. The dialogue between the Government and the European Commission is completely normal and welcome. I made some calls and zooms myself in what's called this ugly Brussels, and I love it very much. Such conclusions that this document has already received two negative assessments have not been observed. I have to say that I'm not going to talk about lying because I think that's too much of a word, but it's too much flat-rate thesis that I can't agree with. The second observation, which is perhaps the most appropriate to my heart, is that there is three times as much money invested in roads as in rail infrastructure. The Ministry of Infrastructure has already rejected this thesis on the committee itself. The initiative mentions almost three times the ratio of the projected investment in road transport compared to investment in rail or sustainable infrastructure, so it does not. Although I wish that some of these funds could be used to build the Postojna-Yelšana motorway as soon as possible. I am pleased, however, that the Government has recognized this important project, raised it from the drawer and is developing, I hope that soon, into reality. Last point: too much focus on investments and that reforms are neglected. The demographic fund, yesterday's vote tells you everything. The Long-Terms Act. For 10 years this law is being prepared, our Minister of New Slovenia, Janez Cigler, the King, will soon make this law public. Not to mention health, social reform, where there has been no R in the last 10 years since the reform, if I may say so your way. We all have to pour ourselves some clean wine here. To conclude, I am taking this document as a document that is incomplete, which is being built, like the European Parliament building in Strasbourg. It's round, but it's one part that can be upgraded. That is what I think is right, and I think the Ministry, as well as the Government, will drink this document in final coordination. It's over. I believe that we can join forces, I believe that we can join forces for the development of Slovenia, for new jobs, for the future of Slovenia. I believe in the development of digital Slovenia, I believe in the development of green Slovenia, and I believe that the Government will also find a glimpse of hope for rural development. I want the best possible realization of the plan itself, and I believe that together we will be able to do so. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposer, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not argue and apologize for what others say, either within the motioners or on your side, if I have to say so. Introductory. It's a national recovery and resistance plan, as I said. It's not about yours, ours, theirs, one, the other. If you were fair — a great deal of what you are now boasting about — was produced through too long a time unit. As I said before, you've recruited one, the other, the third, the fourth, and you should also be respectful of all these people. Mr Ferrjan spoke about the European Commission’s communication – Slovenia’s criticism, comments, are helpful, are guidelines. When the opposition wants to help, it's obvious. I've already told Zvonko that my parents can either tell me something at home or his, in Parliament, there are no readings in serious politics. There's some problem with you taking it for granted. A small note, an esteemed young colleague who I love you very much, frankly, you said, "We in the government." Maybe you got a little carried away, you're not in the government, neither am I. I agree that this is a living document. Such documents are, in fact, always living documents, even in the phase of conclusion and swearing and so on, should be translated into Slovenian from Brussels. That's the light you need to look at. All those who have ever done serious European projects know that the preparatory phase and communication are insanely important. And then you pray to God that those European bureaucrats don't change. In five years, we have been replaced by a key bureaucrat. Someone comes from some x position – new. After they have taken pictures of whether it is Janez Janša or colleague Polnar or Miha Kordiš or colleague Chernigoj, this is then painting; those garages are performed by serious bureaucrats, including so-called diplomatic bands, and so on, various shekelys, if I am a little cynical in writing, which my colleague knows very well – because somehow you worked in Brussels. And if I didn't do something personal, I didn't do anything. I'm also getting sick and tired of this muck. Probably, if you had a document, you could be here - without me, all of you are talking and saying something. I'd like to bring Damjana Murka's calendar from home to a meeting and show it to you. If this government had made about 50 pages of a document, like the Spanish, Germans and others, and written it in, which is clear, I don't know, my 12-year-old daughter or a hundred-year-old father from a colleague of Bevko's, it probably wouldn't have been all this noise to that extent. But I can understand this halabuka. Economists and NGOs and municipalities, of course, also have their own planning and planning. And now I don't know if they're deceiving you and deceiving me at the same time. You yourself have said well that in such or other forms you have had this meeting, mainly digital, where some basics have been presented and so on. When journalists go to ask about this whole diapazone, including trade unions – counterpart Cernač started his career in the Union of Free Trade Unions as a trainee, by the way – they say, because there were no serious consultations. Which, of course, makes sense. You can't do some serious consultation when you have a thousand or 200 or 300 people. Content is spoken of or discussed by content. And to compare the casual matter when a colleague speaks for one minute at the European Consultation on the Portuguese Presidency, with some work on the content is something of a third. Today is this debate – I knew it — a little like a broken record, most people didn't even go through it or read it. But as the minister says, he himself knows that in this proposal, it is essentially a different programming and should be taken as such. Of course, it's not our job as the opposition to write all that rat I read. So it's a little snack. The project, which I was working on myself, had 800 pages on the start, 200 annexes, a thousand 200, an evaluation of 3 thousand 600 plus additional documents. You're basically insulting here. It's not a problem for me to read a thousand pages. But I haven't seen any substantive debates here today, I'm sorry. Maybe, here, colleague Beznik, I know he'll come and have some kind of substantive debate. I want us to have such substantive debates. I'll stop at this point. A little more substantive, including concrete, but I'll tell you later when I'm ready to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u67	Thank you very much. He has Vojko Starović and will be followed by Robert Polnar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u68	President, thank you for your word. Nicely greeted, honored present! Unlike some of the predecessors, I have to say that I believe in the usefulness of public debate and the involvement of civil society. Although this brings quite some extra work and difficult coordination, it is true. The views on some things are different and even contradictory, even on such a plan. This is normal, but people see and judge things differently, and democratic societies recognise and respect that. In doing so, experience has made it clear that a quality debate involving both the professional and the general public brings better and more balanced solutions, and companies that take this into account are doing better. Every plan has some priorities. They say this plan doesn't have a priority – it has a priority. The Recovery and Resistance Plan ahead of us also has priorities, no doubt. Given that this text did not go through a broader public debate, it is therefore very likely to reflect the views and priorities of the current authorities in particular. The plan is certainly also the result of some deeper reflections and compromises and coordination of different views, wishes and possibilities, but still this extremely important element in democracy is missing, this is a democratic public, reasoned and transparent debate. As I understood the Minister in his initial address today, the Recovery and Resistance Plan is built from below, a sum of local community plans, development centres and the like. However, believe me, the European reflection and initiative did not grow on local desires, intentions and plans, but on the basis of some more complex reflection and a comprehensive view of where we are all going together. In general, in such important areas as population health, nature conservation and the prevention of further adverse impacts on climate change. It is not only about the problems that concern not only Slovenia, Europe, but also the whole world. It is a question of mutual solidarity with emphasis on future generations. There must be a comprehensive view, a view of the forest. It is not possible to come from individual trees, but from individual interests. To see the forest, however, we need a wider view, with multiple perspectives and angles. This ensures a public debate involving both the professional and the general public. It is one of the fundamental institutions of democracy that brings long-term success to democratic societies in the world. A very extensive and thorough study by the World Bank entitled What resources create the wealth of nations? The measurement of capital in the 21st century, which was made on a sample of as many as 120 countries, has clearly shown that the key factor in the welfare of countries is intangible capital. This is human capital and the quality of formal and informal institutions. In developed countries, where Slovenia belongs to its gross social product, it has more than 80 % influence, while production capital has only 17 % influence and only 2 % natural capital. So we know where we need to go. The fact is that the profession and science, by their own knowledge and by the interested and general public, can make a decisive contribution to the design and adoption of good political decisions, to the regulation of society in the spirit of Aristotle's understanding, which sees politics as a public activity of free people, which appears to be an effort to ensure order, stability and justice in society. The inclusion of the behaviour of the profession and the general public therefore brings many new knowledge and insights that can greatly help to solve the challenges posed by the increasingly complex and unpredictable social reality and the future. Of course, there are no easy solutions to this. Simple solutions are offered only by populists. Do you know where the power of the democratic confrontation of human thought comes from with the arguments most to the expression? Here, we'll see about that. In what community? I'll tell you that in the scientific community. Here is the principle of an argument-based public debate, in which only the argument is taken and not by whom it is made, which has been present all the time today. That's right. In the scientific community, the rules of rational exchange of arguments are consistently used. Everyone has the opportunity to participate and contribute their ideas, which the scientific community will then evaluate. From here on out, such incredible advances in science in modern times. It clearly points us to the need to engage the whole society and all available sources of behaviour and knowledge in a plan as important as the plan before us. The fact is, every time the authorities, including this authority, are only short-term. And now we say, oh, you weren't before, you've been since then, you haven't done it in the short term, and so alone as such, you're not able to refer to single-handedly long-term solutions. [[…]] This democratic deficit may be replaced by civil society, whether it is professional associations or NGOs, research bases, civil initiatives or other groups of people. That is why it is right and very useful for the entire social community to involve this public in these processes in order to invite it, does not ask, as someone thought he was asking, give me the documents, but to attract and include it. And at the earliest possible stage of strategic and concrete decision-making. The denial of the importance of civil society, which has basically led to this Slovenia's independence, is mistaken and rejected, I think. Although we have wasted a lot of time, we still have some time to take advantage of it. That is why I place my heart deeply on the Minister and the Government that it is also trying to involve the general public in the most organised and efficient way possible during this time, particularly professionally. That's my request. One such contribution was this document, which we have contributed. Do not attack if someone wants to cooperate, engage and make a positive contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar has the word, and he's going to be discussed by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The European Union, severely criticised for its slow response to the crisis caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, appears to have experienced a resurrection. The Marshall Plan, injected by the United States of America and launched the European integration process after World War II, was reincarnated this time only with the determination of the members of the European Union. The compromise agreed in Brussels is not just the victory of common sense in the economy. This is also very difficult to achieve because the economy, like politics, is an area of many mystifications and manipulations. The most optimistic say that tools to recover are actually the victory of the ideas of a united Europe and an important stage in revitalising the processes of European integration. The agreement on the green and digital transition of Europe is the result of the introduction of a digital service tax, from which we may also expect the harmonisation of health systems, which means a single health policy, which has been the prerogative of the Member States so far, the gradual introduction of a single European minimum wage and, in particular, the return of strategic industries to European cover. But he doesn't seem to be making any illusions. What was done is a step forward that was done out of necessity. However, the urgency is a radical change in the prevailing belief that profit needs to be maximised at the lowest possible cost of production, which has led to a large loss of European capital in tax havens. However, today we are talking about a recovery instrument, part of which is also a recovery and resistance mechanism, within which Slovenia is expected to receive €3.6 billion in favourable loans and €2.1 billion in grants, under this €1.6 billion in recovery and resilience mechanism. So there's no misunderstanding, it's an impressive amount of money. But I think my modest opinion is that this value would also be subject to some contextualisation. €1.6 billion in grants is presented as the national hope of the first order. Okay. At the same time, we have €1.2 billion of outstanding tax liabilities in this country, of which there are 700 million expendable, completely expendable and 500 million conditionally expendable. This information, for example, has the status of fiscal marginality, something marginal, over which we simply shake hands. These are, of course, potentially extremely important funds for the Slovenian resistance from the crisis. The budget of the country, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, had 10 billion and 100 million revenue and 9 billion, or less than 10 billion expenditure. In 2020, the revenues were €9.1 billion and expenditure was 12 billion and a half, amounting to an increase of €3 billion and €600 million. This is important to know when planning and using the funds expected from the European Union, because we need to restore recovery first. First, we must put things on the ground, then we will be able to start talking about complete reorganisation or partial reorganisation of society, its social structure and the economic system. In the material prepared by the Government, development areas are divided into nine points. Within each is a very detailed area of reform and investment. Of course, there is nothing we can talk about here but that we will never agree on priorities. But the government is probably in every parliamentary democracy that must produce such a document. That's not an easy job. No one applauds such work either, but especially in such a work, it is not possible to walk around with Miklavszov. The European Union sets up very high entry barriers that each country must fill if it is to become a beneficiary of funds. The European Commission is the one who assesses the appropriateness of meeting these entry barriers, and it is the Council of the European Union that will then definitively confirm every national recovery and resilience plan. It is clear that very different views can occur in the fulfilment of the conditions for the elimination of all these entry barriers, and this is happening to us today. Why? This can also be a very wide field for parliamentary spirit outcasts and enforcers of principles. If we believe the most active and most engaged part of the political opposition in Slovenia, in March 2020 the period of unsustainable regression and discontinuity in all spheres of life began in Slovenia. The intensity of the criticism is such that it could give the impression that Slovenia was a normal and successful country by March 2020 and that this changed dramatically with the change of power. In this way, 2020 could also be a year of lost prestige. Unlike today’s situation until March 2020, the country has not been organised according to the principle of party feuds, corruption has virtually been absent, public procurement and privatisation have been carried out at the highest standards of transparency, and the country has not sold anything that could be found by the buyer, and Slovenian companies have not gone massively into the hands of foreigners. By March 2020, the public sector had been staffed with non-participating personalities, alone with the exception of honest, top managers, influential and wealthy businessmen, had no impact on the design of legal proposals, could not influence the design of economic policy and could under no circumstances become a private service to the public. By March 2020, Slovenian health care, unlike today’s, was in excellent condition, the country was a serial building of nursing hospitals and the homes of older citizens. In construction, urbanism and architecture, for example, the highest professional standards were respected, non-profit dwellings were built according to the needs of the population. By March 2020, people had not lost their jobs, the economy had flourished, state affairs had been regulated in a comprehensive manner and with accelerated speed, the justice system and regulatory institutions had been operating in a way that there was no need for anyone to alert them to what their work was. By March 2020, Slovenian economic emigration was rapidly returning to its homeland. No one wanted to leave Slovenia at any cost. The potential problems, if any, did not arise because of the incompetent authority, but because of the saboteurs who made these sophisticated, sophisticated people force them to do something here and there against their will. And so until the fateful conversion of March 2020. At that time, or we were naive elected representatives of the people, not realizing how good life is in Slovenia and how good and enlightened the country has, suddenly decided to open the gates of hell and step through that door several times in a row. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite possible that this irony is now too strong and excessive. But it does not change the key fact: everything that is happening on the Slovenian political scene today is nothing new. It is only faster and more brutal to continue the bad processes of the past. Today's criticism of power is not part of an evolutionary process, at the end of which a critical ambition is created, but we are talking about a process of deepening divisions between us and them, ours and theirs. We will criticize them and theirs forever, and we will defend ourselves and ours forever. In doing so, they have uncompromisingly violated basic ethical principles and standards. So I'm talking about a criticism that's highly colored, party, interesting and clanic. Although this type of biased criticism is better than silence, it does not give rise to the hope that political space can be civilized. In such an atmosphere, it is impossible to open up complex, political, social and economic themes. Everything is reduced to one question and a dilemma: who steals more and who steals more, ours or theirs? In Slovenia, however, a critical, objective and passionate public is needed. One who deliberately analyzes reality and who does not do so from a position of narrow egotistic interest. Such people are few and remain in the castle because they are not on polarized public stage good for either of them or others. Calm citizens and young people who are just forming their own view of the world today have no confidence in anyone. We, ladies and gentlemen, continue with the Slovenian tradition of parallel monologues, instead of the practice of constructive dialogues. However, we have one very big problem: Slovenians can never understand that constructive dialogue does not mean the ultimate fulfilment of all our wishes, but that in constructive dialogue it is sometimes necessary to let go and that the essence of policy is to accept compromises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word, and Igor Peček will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members, distinguished Minister with colleagues! If citizens and citizens are accompanying this meeting today in the National Assembly and if they have not read the title at the outset, what the debate is about today, what is the subject of the debate, then they will think that this is the least interpretation against the government. That's what the debate looks like. At the beginning, when I listened to Dr. Trček's proposal, there was nothing about the content of your proposal, i.e. the Recovery and Resistance Plan, there was not a word, but it was everything, from greetings to Mom, Minister Cernač, from old stories back to back, lies, a bunch of diversions, manipulations to various quotations, Marx, Engels, self-government and so on, and then this debate was built on the basis of the applicant's opening statement. There was not a word about the contents of your 20-page document. I haven't heard from her before, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But everything else, everything else, from lies to manipulations, delusions, impulses, criticisms of the government, in short, as if they weren't in the epidemic. Instead of thanking the Ministry, the Minister, the Government, for preparing us with such a good document, so extensive, so precise, with clear goals, instead of commending us, you're just giving it away. All you do is build and build and present a document of your own. To tell citizens and citizens why we are here today – the opposition or KUL coalition should present us with a document for recovery and resistance, which we have not heard a word about. For now, maybe he'll be in the debate later. You had the opportunity to prepare this document yourself in the form prepared by Minister Černač, but of course you decided not to do so. A year has passed since your Prime Minister threw a rifle into the corn and everyone with it, and now you have only one goal – not to help, but how what the Minister has prepared, the Recovery and Resistance Plan, to bring down. I would very much like your good suggestions. The Minister would probably be happy to make good suggestions, but unfortunately we don't hear them. You've summarized something from the minister's document, and you've got a little bit more to say and you've done some flat stuff, something like some kind of program of some kind of party of yours you've presented to us. If this normal person sees it, if voters and voters see it, here they see no other than some populism and some greed for how you would distribute this money, the money that Prime Minister Janez Janša with an excellent team, with the government coalition he won in Europe. That would be your goal in how to share this money. That's what you're worried about, and it hurts. But it's all your fault. Mr Černač presented his programme here once again, we have heard many times what it looks like, we know how this Recovery and Resistance Plan is directed. We have heard a lot of lies from Tanja Fajon, who started this, forward that the European Commission has had a lot of comments on this document, that it will be rejected, that it is not good, that it is nowhere to be found. That's what we've been listening to, the media are summarizing it, and we've been listening to it all day, these lies. Give this to the media once. What some people think — I don't know. And then you spread these lies here in Parliament so that people can see it again. But it must be made clear that none of this is entirely true. The minister has said this a hundred times and he'll probably have to do it a hundred times. The Minister also said and mentioned in a presentation of our or government proposal, which we have considered on the Committee on European Union Affairs – because we all knew about this document, at the end of the week someone transferred it to a week that he would not have named at all, would not have advertised to him because it was not worth it, whether it was a monthbook or whatever it was, and this document was published internally in public. Catastrophe. I don't know whether you support it or not, I've never heard any criticism from you on this account. One more time. It is clear that in this document prepared by the Government, unlike yours, in fact everything it must be, and in fact everything that will have to be will be, in the end, that we will be able to draw these refunds and grants successfully, of course for the benefit of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, for the benefit of the economy, for the benefit of the whole country. I'll tell you that. That there are in the Plan for Recovery and Resistance of the Village Road inside the Circles – please! Dear voters and voters, let us remember this very well when you hear that the government will finance the village roads, that it is a plan for recovery and resilience, and in the next elections also take this into account, do not forget. Remember that, it's very important. This government has worked from average to bureaucratic burdens to a bunch of things that we have also confirmed here in Parliament, especially members of the coalition as usual, in the good of the municipalities, in the good of local communities, for the good of all people in this country, and listening to this is a real disaster. I wish that this government, which has prepared such an excellent document, would continue to have at least one or two more mandates or three to correct all that you have done in 30 years – or even on that basis since 1945 a certain party, and from the Union of Communists to the Union of Socialist Youth, all that now sits in here, descendants, that this government will fix all of this. Because it's been so seduced. And then you say he's not home, there's no hospitals, there's no hospitals, there's no hospitals, and you ruled. So you're banning yourself. It seems to people – I tell you as I hear people talking to them – when they listen to this, a living disaster. Neither this nor that nor the third, but you would still rule. People don't approve of it, and they won't anymore, I believe, watch. In fact, I would like this mandate to continue and finally things will be put in the right place, and this will then be a breakthrough between the developed countries, but not that we will constantly stagnate and just talk about some floscules, about some dreams. “We will, we will, we should, we should, we will, we will ” is all we listen to. [[…]] That's what we listen to all the time. All you have to do is stop. However, it is not that something has actually been done and that we will actually have to move something else to make sure that it is actually seen on the ground. In fact, this document, the government, not yours, some tectonic movement, is a historical document in difficult times that will surely receive support in our Parliament, and Slovenia will also have some of it. From throwing rifles into corn, from promises, from flossules, from Marx, Engels, from self-governing with the foundation of Marxism, from blah, blah, blah will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The proposaler Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know. I'm seriously wondering if I'm already demented. I'd like my colleague Doblekar in the replica to tell me where I'm Marxa, Engels' quote in those opening 14 minutes. Where did I quote Marx, Engels? I actually quoted John Janez Janša, Karl Popper, Ludmila, Brglez and Sennett twice, but most of them are not Marxists, by the way. But if I was quoting, I don't know if he should tell me. That'll be enough in three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Igor Peček has the word and will be followed by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Maybe Mr. Doblekar will tell me something that isn't Dr. Duck. I really may have expected a constructive dialogue today, especially an exchange of views. I hope that I may at least be able to exchange them in part with the Minister. That, Mr Minister, what you said in the introduction – that we are looking at things from above and seeing only billions hanging in the air somewhere – I don't think this comment was in place. You have every right to think so. I have said, at least twice, that I agree that the plan is based on the bottom-up method, but on the assumption that it has been somehow drawn up by the European Commission or the European Union with the priorities, development and structural reforms for which it wants to take place within the European Union. I never said it, and we don't think it's the money that's available to us. I am disturbed by the constant emphasis on the ability of the President of the Government and the negotiation of funds of historical value. We all know best that, for example, funding for the Multiannual Financial Framework has started to be negotiated, if I may say so December 2017, and that the funds allocated by the European Union within the Next Generation of the EU instrument have been shared according to a specific methodology. This methodology was agreed and endorsed by the European Council, which is true, but there was no negotiation. As far as non-refundable and recovery is concerned, I would like to say again. All this money will be returned, but that is no reason to be burdened with taking as much money as we can and using it wisely. We know that in future we will refund grants in the form of at least three taxes. These are plastic taxes, carbon taxes and financial transactions taxes. This is what we all know, most of all, the European Union, which is why it is now giving this money under certain conditions. In our Member States, however, how will we meet these conditions, that we will then pay less through taxes, and that should be our goal if we look at how we will spend this money. You also said that I agree with this that we must be united in the direction to go or how to implement these reforms, but that we see a partial problem in whether we are prepared to make these development changes. I don't think there's any question here. At least the developmental changes of our decision makers must be an axiom for us, a necessity, we must make them. I understand them as they need to be. Whether the demographic fund is a reform or not — let's say it is a paper condition for certain reforms to be implemented. I have never said that the plan is completely flawed, even I think it is fundamentally well structured. What you said today, what you said the last time, how true. Focusing on the professions of the future and developing the competences that people will need in the future is, I think, a very important thing that must have a particular weight within this plan. While the European Commission is within the sixth pillar, it does not formulate as much as the first two, but it gives it great weight. Investing in infrastructure or concrete – the fact is that it is necessary. It is necessary, but it is not a problem; rather it must be a challenge, as you said, to build a sewage system in an area where for example there are 25 water sources, but you have a problem with PPEs because you do not reach 500. That's a challenge. In fact, you can't put it in green, we know it's essential if we want to protect these resources, if we build it with our own money, but it'll be too expensive. Austria and Mölltal also had this challenge 30 years ago. We all know Mölltal, 3,000 metres of sewerage from top to bottom for 30 years. As far as the papers and papers are concerned. I don't think it's as important as the pages have the material. The German plan has more than 40 of them, as far as I know. I don't think they're relevant anymore. Let's leave the supplements. But this plan of theirs is accompanied by 130 billion severe stimuli from the country that started last year. You probably know better than I do their case of the Bauhaus project, where they have included in the construction of apartments, homes, rehabilitations, all the "shareholders", as we like to call them, from landscape architects to the public, in order to make a complete energy renovation of the buildings. This is a development reform for me. But it is true that we still have time. I hope we don't wait too long. It's time for action, as you say. I support the action, but let this action really be done on the right grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, behind him will get the word Željko Ciegler. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. In collective sports, when it's time for action, the basketball coach takes a minute off, has a board and sketches how the action will take place. We've got some problems here. I'm gonna start with concrete, but first I'm gonna get to Senator Polarar. It is true that every serious policy is in charge. Here we have to ask ourselves whether it is quality enough, or whether it is a school of people for demanding functions, for the most difficult – because my colleague Chernač thinks he is even a little shy this morning, as if he was almost crying – and also whether you are changing people who have come to some positions under some other government or government. In some serious, thinking countries you don't do this, in serious, thinking countries you set up schools that educate people for the most demanding functions. Even inside, if you want, customer training you have a stunt model. I can honestly admit that I was very pleased to hear who would be the secretary of state at the SVRK, because I knew that Mrs Kirbish was in charge if I put it that way. If we go back to the concrete. Don't get me wrong. I like concrete very much. Concrete is a great material, if you super modernize it, it is also low amortization to make it look nice. Buddy Reich is a much bigger expert on these things than I am, but as far as concrete is concerned, you can go see, in 1997, I wrote as a young pub, not as handsome as Jani, that our problem is that our development ends with concrete. And also what Comrade Polnar said, who will be concrete, according to his own words. Sometimes in a joke, I say, "My cousin or your cousin?" But first we have to ask ourselves, wait, why would we concrete how we're going to concrete, what we're going to concrete, what we're going to concrete, what we're going to do, or what we're going to asphalt? And it's a whole bunch of cases. We're going to beat up the Trojans -- oh, my God, two years later, we're having a problem with asphalt in that tunnel. And then they start acting, and then some retired construction engineer, who wrote Pa, the Germans are before Hitler, seems to me that in 1922, they set up an asphalt institute. [[…]] Or if you want, these emergency medical centers. It was important that it was concrete. Do we now have protocols, do we have a frame or do we not have a frame? That's essentially a developmental problem. This is not just this government's problem, it is the lack of opinion on the development of Slovenia in the last quarter of the century. This government is another story, this government is more of a story, if a fellow Grimes would say, because we are not a party, we are a private company of one man. Before you write the fatter pawns, the fatter pawns, of course you need some political agreement about what we would do in Slovenia. I've talked too many times here about how the Estonians made up their minds. The heads of the five political parties – all of them were then grandfathers, now there are more ladies in politics in their work, which I welcome – literally after that shock therapy they got into one mess and they really talked about how Estonia would work on it. Three were in the coalition, two were in the opposition. If this government didn't throw an axe like that to everyone else, we would probably go a little bit to look at our programming proposal, your programming proposal, because it's not about yours, ours, it's about common ground, and we'd be looking together for what's good in one thing, what's good in another. Now to say that we copied from Janša – yes, dear God, even before I moved to Maribor, the problem was already pulmonary at Pohorje. And now you're acting like the world started with you. Let Polnar take a look at who he's supporting. You're acting like one! First I've got you — how much? – For five years, I've heard that we're all scabs, after Jelinčič's arrival, which he's not even here today, we're idiots, idiots, fools and so on, we could pull off a magnetogram. Now you're acting. And all of our criticisms. People like the Member call you for all life – look, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's up, it's down. Mr Minister himself said that we will write a substantively perfect national plan for recovery and resilience. Yes, Christian mother, but who else will write the materially perfect NOO? I'm sorry, but not all of these contents are just in the ministries, and they're just with your party booklets, and they're also at universities, they're at the institutes, they're in the municipalities, so let's say some mayor who broke up with us. More at your end is a great expert on European projects and could even mention it. That is how these documents should be written in essence. They do make some masks, which I call masseuses, because then they're either over Zoom or whatever large numbers of people who have this little camera off maybe, I don't know what they're ironing with, like I used to do on some of our Zoom. But the other thing is when you have to write the contents. It is not just the government’s fault that these contents are written in a nonbullying language. What Polnar said is wrong — we did not or did not raise people in politics as we should. Even now this methodology, we are looking from below, you from above – we need to look at all levels, and if it is people, what you like to point out, then people also need to get content for people. Unless you're imagining that you know everything. You're worse than that Marcus with your crystals. You don't need us, we're here with a little ornament, a little skyscraper. Of all these programmings, I would like to know when Slovenia will become a net contributor to European cohesion. That's what I'd like. Just like the Irish. And it would be, as we say at our or at the Korosh end, a stand. That's what I'd like to talk to you about, not just a few percent. When ours are, the kubaji percentages are fine when yours are, the percentages are wrong, and we have – since when do we go? – from pre-accession times all the time the most problems in the environment and space. We now have a minister there who is more interested in the infrastructure sector than in the environment and space. These are some things. I don't even know now, frankly, because you're all talking about everything alive, whether we're going to be doing the next three OPs or not, or we're still going to be one OP. If we're going to do three ops, where do we have the people who are going to cover this personnel? I think Professor Dark warned me about that. I agree with the Minister, of course many small projects are very important, but then we also need to know how we grow them, in what way. He's already working in Austria, I don't know, every regional trade hall. I was, like, in Gradiščanska and somewhere else. How much experience do we have with the L.A.S.? When a project thinks about what it's like to pretend that someone's got a shot, then we have a problem that year and a year and a half, when we have to play a little more, that the matter is alive, that you really don't have to return those European funds. Have we learned anything from this? I'm afraid we're not getting enough. In writing this contentual perfection, in this consideration, who should all be involved in writing content, of course, is also on the spot, but who will supervise, including the Court of Auditors, including someone else who has knowledge, including Transparency International, if you want someone not to go over the edge with their own interests to the detriment of all of us? You know, the cheapest populism, the village roads. Village roads – even if you were born in Ljubljana, but not in the Belokran village of Zilje – of course, we also need village roads. We probably also need to look at some critical infrastructure that needs to be restored. A few years ago, I read a document because it said that we have terrible roads, 50% of the bridges should be closed because they are no longer safe. It was a German document, by the way. We have if Comrade Reich has any time, I don't know, 130, out there, critical bridges, viaducts. If we move on. Comrade Doblekar. I don't know, we've fucked everything up since the Pot of the Harvest, and now it's probably going to take thousands of years of blue-yellow power to fix everything. That's the wrong thing to do! Why would I fix something that's so shabby? You have to clean this up ecologically, give back, like the Styrians say, and then do something new. A good example – but not a shababajeraj – is a top architecture – is the UKC in Ljubljana. The monumentally protected, top architect and so on, but it's been a while. It would probably be better to put a new UKC somewhere and turn it into a nursing hospital or whatever. I'm only gonna show you once. I'm not gonna wave. [[shows the margin]] . In the programming that we went through, there is no doubt that we have devoted more resources to the health pillar in particular. We also have the Ministry of Health. Today we have, here, just the anniversary of the first detectable infection with this horrible virus in our house. Health also begins with a healthier policy. If my colleague Doblekar had listened very well, I would have known that that was an additional explanation for the applicant. Everyone is expected to read all the material, and in further explanation, I just wanted to say that we should finally be human. We're finally going to stop having our eggs back, who it is, who it isn't, because that's not the point of politics. This is the purpose of historians, not those who are party deformed. And, of course, I knew you weren't going to have this debate. And in the end, here, I quote Jansha twice, no other than twice, and you're wrong again, and you're gonna find Marx and Engels. I don't know, maybe Comrade Doblekar will find Marx and Engels in Janez Janša's quotes. This saves your client's world. That I won't be too long. Long-term care. As chairman of the committee in the previous term, I happened to be at a professional meeting where a lady from Scotland came and presented the Scottish model for long-term care. We all want to be as autonomous as we can be, and we have to think through it. We also have a very old apartment fund, how are we going to build some buildings of pavilion type? I already said that I led the students to Brno, where they did this in the 1930s, so that I would, I don't know, be on a mobile wheelchair, in my own words. How, from all our knowledge of mechatronics and programming, we will develop gadgets, develop devices to prolong my life's autonomy, telemedicine and so on. Even if we want to talk seriously, whether more trains or more cars, burns, down, whether we drive the pensioners for free or not – wait, we should first start talking about when Muja will go to the mountain, when the mountain will go to Muje, when I have to move, when a service, need, service comes to me in physical form, the body is optimized, and the GPS is a little linear algebra in the background, when I will go somewhere, when it will be teletyped. These are some things that I can talk to myself about here, and I can honestly say that I'd rather have our cat at home now, and I think we should talk about it better. And we already have a third term there, Zdravka Restovalska, who is supposed to be Minister of Economic Development and Technology. I'd probably like to talk to Jani: 3rd Development Axis, why don't we make a railway connection there, at least one, if there's some ass going on, what the cycling track is going to be like and so on. And I could put it down and put it down. I'm not gonna apologize. The Dobler just lit me a little back office. They have one of the best housing policies in the world, if not the best, in Vienna. In the profession we call it Red Vienna because for 100 years social democracy has been working on it, and the new left has joined it and green and so on. Are we going to build neighborhoods where cycling is going to be a priority, or are we going to build because we have a scattered settlement, these neighborhoods in some small places? Because this way, too, we will be greener. What kind of mayors say is, "I don't need apartments," then these young people build up something, and then they get into a fight and they go on their own, and we have too many bytes that are energy-consuming. Here are some reflections that should actually be thought out in advance and then included in these documents. This government may be in the slightly wrong way this localistic, too partial drive, after all, is a document written about by the Vice-President of the Government, the already mentioned Restoration, you, Minister Cernač, to let yourself calm down a little, because in this way, as you conclude this cohesion, our economic competitiveness indicators will be even lower than they are. This is a government document that came out. How did he get out, whether he had an interior or not, I don't know. Those are some facts. He didn't just make that up. And Doblekar probably would have found Pepco Cardell in that if not Engels. You're on your own! Let us then be a little serious in these areas. And development and innovation, in fact, they've got you on this team, and the SAB will cover Marko more, so I won't be jumping here in his cabbages to tell him what to say. On the one hand, it is likely that if Comrade Breznik comes, he will explain something and then – where will we find some money for it? We have a good, quality public school system that needs to be reformed, but not in the way that the current state of the economy dictates what human resources policy will be. And this is the task of politics in a narrower sense with everything in a broader sense, to think beyond a given state. One serious problem we have, however, is that we do not actually have a ministry for this opinion. The SVRK is a ministry without a license, it already says that in itself. We'd need some department of development thinking about these things. Because you also have an intergenerational combination of some people you don't trade with any government that are actually experts in this. I've met quite a few of these people at my political rallies, and I've met them abroad before. With us, the SVRK works too much in the way that some kind of supplier is a technical bureaucrat. Then they write more or less qualitatively in every letter at the Ministry and we get what we get. Some other companies had these problems, and the challenges could be reversed. My personal opinion is that we should have an executive branch of power like the Swiss. That's what I'm lonely about. Six, seven horizontals, and then you don't even have any more excuses who didn't call anyone on the phone. In all the little ones that we have when we want to set up some basics of some debate, I listen to some old stories about Engels, about Marx, about the foundation, about up and down -- like I've been in politics for 20 years, a lot of people here are present. I fell into politics more after the accident at 45 years of age. I used to do something else in my life. As far as SD is concerned, I can be beaten from the beginning of last July. But of course, it's hard to talk contently, it's easier to feel wide when you're not, when I'm not. Now I could drag Janša to the Eggs and why didn't the Pivec in Maribor build this – what do we have? It's a shame to see you here, but the staff who have to listen to us here when we roll like this. Unfortunately, this debate has turned around, but you know, at some point the EU Commission will give up on us. It can get worse, it can send us technical assistance, and then they'll get a little bit bloated, I don't know, maybe some French or some other approach. The human resources component of the SVRK is also available at ministries – then they are looking for good people who can talk – to get extra work on their shoulders. Even in the light of that, politics in the narrowest sense should be much more serious for me. As I said at the outset, and I seriously mean it, no one will think of our development instead of us and through our interests. We've had some experience with that Mr. Shekely. Let's get real.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Trček, I would only warn you that you were Chairman of the Health Committee in the first half of this term, not in the previous term. I give my word to Minister Soundo Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u80	Thank you very much. With regard to the rest of what has been said, I think that we have already renegotiated, and I have nothing more to comment on what Member Trček has said. But I have to deny one thing that was already on the committee the last time, and this is about some letter where it is supposed to be a fayte between the Minister of Economy Zdravko Pozdavalski and me. This disinformation stems from one contribution to Tarča, which was submitted by journalist Natasa Markovič some three weeks ago by this letter — with a scheme, a correct letter, which is in the stage of the interdepartmental coordination of one regulation, where you know that the ministries give their opinions, comments and so on, and the economy has made a comment in this interdepartmental coordination, it is a regulation that simplifies the implementation of cohesion policy – and on this letter has a text that has nothing to do with this letter. That's not in this letter. This is a fictional text, or perhaps an anonymous one, where it says: “If MGRT loses its jurisdiction to decide its contents, this money can hypothetically go to the village road if it is packed as covid.” Please! That's bullshit, the world. And journalist Natasa Markovic presents this in the Tarč show three weeks ago as some credible information. What kind of man, what village road, please?Oh, my God! Then forward: This is, of course, a fait between the economy and the SVRK, Slovenia is therefore falling on the innovation index, the jurisdiction of MGRT, SVRK money points to the village road. Nonsense, world. One of the nationals can afford this nonsense, please. Please. Letter, 11. 2. where the MGRT, in the inter-resor coordination phase of a regulation that simplifies the implementation of cohesion policy, gives its opinions and comments on this, and then another glued test, which is invented. It is very difficult to talk in this way, sorry if we have some media paid by all people who are obviously instructural to one policy. In this case, I don't know if it's your policy or yours, ours certainly isn't. People pay for this television and at least what it is, one would expect it to provide credible information and some inventions to create an artificial fayte between Minister Restoration and me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Trček, just a question: as a proponent or a replica? It's a replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u82	Thank you for saying thank you for correcting me, my colleague-presidency. Bell, I have to let you down. I don't watch TV. It's been known to me for 10 years. If for someone in the last quarter of the century free advertising is made by television, which is paid by all electricity consumers, it is your president. And almost everyone, I'm sorry, the fart Janša lets go is news. It's not news, it's probably addiction, insubstantial addiction is officially called [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u83	My friend, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u84	But the fact is, there was some warning from one ministry to another, and that's what I actually said. What do any journalist say about me on that NovaTV, is "the third witness".
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u86	I'm sorry, my esteemed former colleague, but there was nowhere else you could have caught that information than on this show. If you're not watching this, I don't know where this thing came from. But it's a good thing we cleared that up. Thank you for pointing that out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Proposaler Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u88	Dear colleague - I hope we are still colleagues - because the vast majority of what you do in the executive branch of power comes to me. I also had all the versions of it, even because a lot of people are buzzing about how you're doing it. Even from some people who have your party card, just for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the debate. First he gets the word Željko Cigler and then Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister Chernač! Today, people are looking at this debate because we are talking about a very important substantive and financial document of our country, and also about the living conditions that will be in this country. There is talk of how much money there is and where European funds will be invested. People are interested in these things, or they have the right to be made aware of them. Moreover, they have the right to express their views and to make decisions in some way. The European Commission, as I know, sees and points out the need for social dialogue on a matter such as the Recovery and Resilience Plan. This is one thing that's been marked internal for seven months. How did it come about? You can now argue here how many rounds of debate, who has all been excluded – there is no review of this. However, the fact is that many experts have been advertised, especially here they have also been repeatedly exposed today by Dr. Mojmir Mrak and Dr. Peter Wostner from Umarja, who, in August of last year and February 27th of this year, made comments, raised certain questions, expressed a certain lack of information and made suggestions. It is therefore logical that this debate is taking place here today. Unfortunately, this is what the National Assembly is talking about today, but it will not adopt any conclusions, and it will not vote. Whether it has been or not, or whether something will increase the impact and listen to proposals, thinking to the professional and interested public within two months, which we still have available to submit this document to the European Commission, is not known. In this context, critical debates that are justified today need to be understood. Twice this National Assembly discussed the Recovery and Resistance Plan, for the first time at a closed meeting of the Economic Affairs Committee and once again thereafter. But this is a very important document, which, together with cohesion funds, will have a significant impact on the future of this country's development and life, and this cannot be an internal matter. This is about democracy, not self-cracy, it's about one democratic rule, and it's about drafting this document. If, for example, Levi, as was said at the beginning of the debate by Mr Ferjan, we are impatient and so forth – forgive us, we demand that public debate and the influence of the professional and interested public, citizens and citizens be opened on what the content of this document will be, how the funds will be distributed. I would like to say that it is clear from the European Commission that one critical tone of the documents submitted were sent there by Slovenia. And for the first draft of the document under consideration today, the European Commission has pointed out that the document is largely a collection of various contributions and that it is designed by force somewhere. Earlier, I mentioned Mr Dark and Wostner and others who are advertising in the media, reminding us that the analysis of the document that became available after, although still internal, the Youth has published it – thank you, so we can reach out to those of us who are interested, including Members who previously, interestingly, did not have access to it – shows that money for some smart digital and circular transformation is shrinking instead of increasing, despite the fact that the transition to the fourth industrial revolution, as we like to say, requires at least two thirds of the investment in knowledge, in innovation, in short to intangible capital. The recovery plan should provide for key investments in education, a research structure, and in fact a negative attitude is shown in this area if we also look further at how cohesion funds will be used, where only 23% of the funds are allocated to this area. This is also highlighted by experts who are experts in global development and perspective here in Slovenia. The opposite trend is shown in this recovery plan in the area of infrastructure, where the share of these investments is expected to increase from 44% to 48% and, in the context of cohesion funds, from 53% is virtually more than half. This is why it is said whether we are investing in municipal infrastructure, in concrete or in the future of this country, where some technological composition is actually meant to change, carbonization has taken place, automation, IT has introduced, and on this basis it has also built a much stronger competitive structure of the economy in Slovenia. Mr Minister, we do not have comprehensive information on what and how much should be financed from which of the two key instruments I have listed here, in particular what we are considering today, a recovery plan, but I am also talking about cohesion policy, although we are aware that more resources are available in cohesion policy. The use of these funds will actually have a significant impact on what Slovenia will be like in a few years' time. This is over when the current government, which is preparing this internally, will no longer be. Instead of focusing on green infrastructure, these are mainly rail public passenger transport, the divisional economy, the emphasis remains, in particular, on classical road infrastructure, on the six-passenger entry into Ljubljana, on the imposed current variant of the 3rd development axis, which is known to be environmentally, spatially, financially and socially unacceptable. Mr Reberšek, representative of New Slovenia, spoke about this on questions raised by Members, including the Minister of Finance. I say six years of investing in weapons and concrete is enough. We need six years of these funds to invest in the modernisation of public health, in the provision of emergency long-term care, in the construction of homes for the elderly, in the modernisation of railways, in the construction of rental apartments, knowledge, decarbonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u92	We're doing exactly what you said last time. Unlike those who have ruled for many years, we will do nothing. Not only will we write a strategy, but we will also do these things, we will actually strengthen health care, home care, housing with concrete investments and concrete projects. As far as R & D is concerned. Half a billion euros is foreseen for this area in this financial perspective. Do you know what kind of absorption is good two years before the outcome of the perspective? Less than 25%. So it's not a problem that these funds aren't enough. The problem is that in all these years this country has not been able to spend them properly and spend them on projects that would then add value to end-users. Our aim is to use some 100 million additional resources for R & D through the RRF – to make good use of these funds which will now be added through the RRF. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Jerco Korče has the word, and he will be given the word Franz Breznik. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, I guess I haven't been part of the structures that ruled for the past 30 years, you've been a lot more mandates in policy structures, which means you've had an impact on certain decisions in any way, from opposition or positional types. If we go to the file. I really hope – I know you have read it, but I really hope – that the Members have read it. However, when a person takes his time and goes through this office, at the end, when he reads the entire document, there is a bitter taste that there is no integrity, there is no red thread. This document does not contain the basis requested by the European Commission, and this is that the document is strategic. Strategicity means the preparation of a document on which implementing documents will then be made. Here, through the document, when a person reads it, he sees that she is a glue. Some parts are properly prepared, perhaps prepared by an official who knew very well what he was doing within his field. Some projects are very partial, some projects are drawn from some drawers and do not fit into such a comprehensive view of this document, which is linked to 2026, but still much longer than that. While the European Commission's orientation, if we only understand it in one sentence or in one statement, is to support long-term reforms and investments in particular in green and digital technologies with a lasting impact on the productivity and resilience of the economy, I unfortunately do not see this in the majority of this document, and this is a problem. If we want to talk today about what this document will look like, because these are drafts, then it is the proposal, Minister, that you simply throw this matter out or take out those things that have a logic and a red thread and also follow the strategic orientations imposed by the European Commission and prepare a new document. There's no need for this to be a giant salad. We have seen this in other countries how these documents were prepared. When we speak of a strategic document, these are guidelines and we do not need implementing matters in the document. And this concept has to be discarded. I understand, however, because you said today, you yourself have stated that we are different after you understand the process of climate crisis or climate change as something that is not happening for five, ten, 20 years, but over millenniums, millions of years, and this process will continue. From the point of view that, as the minister responsible for preparing a document based on the direction of the European Commission - also on a green, in particular a green breakthrough of 37% - of course, the European Commission's wish that this percentage be raised by the European Commission - and that, as the minister responsible for preparing such a strategic document, you do not understand in the concept the anthropogenic effects that have taken place in recent years and are also the result of human action due to greenhouse gases. These greenhouse gases have increased. And they increased in large numbers due to traffic. In Slovenia, in general, it is largely due to traffic. In the European Union, between 1990 and 2012, if we take this reference period, these greenhouse gases increased by 14% and in Slovenia by 111%. So it's clear, not because I'm saying this here, but because this country has written this in a number of documents, and science has united over the fact that we have a traffic problem. But then we go to your brother's document, and especially in the light of a green breakthrough, and I'm not going to drop on concrete or concrete, but the fact is that under the permanent mobility component that you have in your document, you're talking about a project to set up a public passenger company. Great. Just so I don't hear another word, you know, past governments have wasted on analysis, agencies, I don't know what was going on, because you're doing this yourself -- you're setting up some new company that's going to be doing public passenger transport. Second of all, you're giving up rail infrastructure. That's right, for 162 million. But then in this same chapter on sustainable mobility, you talk about connectivity. And this is where you build the roads. The point that fascinated me in this document is that investment in road infrastructure will contribute to the green transition. And logically, because there will be less congestion, fewer cars will cost, and fewer releases. But those aren't my words, they're healthy farmers' minds and science, more roads, more traffic. Logic. And then you have another fascinating thing about permanent mobility, which is cycling infrastructure. Great. I think it's two pages or half. It's beautifully written, it sounds great, it reads fine until you get under the line. We're talking about a mile and a half, about two blocks. The creation of a new air carrier on a cake for permanent mobility is the creation of a new air carrier because no scientist at the level of the European Union has been united in terms of the fact that air transport is one of the major pollutants. Now explain to me, Minister, if I don't understand what the European Union doesn't understand, if all the written documents, and science, and all the congresses referring to the climate and climate crisis, don't understand what green transition means. And if the European Union is talking about at least 37% of the investments that are supposed to go from this document to the green transition, and I, in concrete cases, tell you what a green transition is for you in this document, then something is wrong with this document or you are right, this government is right and there is something wrong with the European Union, with all science, with all the documents and with everything that has been learned so far in this world. That's the first problem. Second problem, you're talking about reforms. Yes, I agree, although the word reform is a little foreign to me, because I would not like to see health reform, because I think the concept of health in Slovenia is good. But it is true that he needs repairs and improvements. I'm saying the same thing about the pension system. We have a good, flowful, solidarity pension system, but it needs improvements. In my opinion, this is not the demographic fund, because after all the years and after the sale of the state property that remains, I don't know, you can fix me, I think 170 million, let's say, we can pull out at the annual level, we could think more about some modern concept of investing these 170 or 150 million, or how many millions, in young people, in science, in development. If, since 2012, when the 74th article has not been implemented since then, politics has not been able to do so until now, and it has sold things out at that time, it is likely that today, without any connection, we will be able to think about the demographic fund and it is possible to switch to a more modern model of how we will provide pensions in the future. But let's just leave it. You're talking about labour market reform. On the one hand, we need to extend work activities so that older people remain active longer and, on the other hand, faster entry of young people into the labour market. Great. Only that this does not go hand in hand with the recently adopted article in the CAP on compulsory retirement. You are already coming here in the contradiction of what you write in the quasi-strategic document you are sending to Europe and what you are doing here within your own country in the laws you are currently enacting or bringing to this National Assembly. Great, faster entry of young people into the labour market. I agree. This is again one of the projects that aroused interest in me, and I was looking forward to reading what it says down here. And because the government of Janez Janša is not the same as the previous governments that you read about preparing analyses and throwing money away - you know what you're going to do here to get young people to the labour market faster? You will prepare an analysis of the situation, then you will prepare a public contract to select an external contractor to carry out promotional activities and choose an operator to prepare a communication and preparation strategy and implement a call for incentives to employers. And that's it. This is a reform of how to get young people to the labour market as quickly as possible. Of course, there's something else in the document that you're saying that the problem is student work. In short, you're saying that you don't understand where the problems are, and even less that you understand that this document means something other than the sentences that I've just said on a few occasions. This is huge in here, although, once again, I stress, some parts are very good and I would like it to be written under a single paragraph or part of the work by which the clerk was the drafter. Because some deserve to be commended. But politics is the one that should see a comprehensive, big picture, what strategic direction means. And that's where the politics went wrong. I believe that officials who prepared this or placed it out of drawers were doing some proper work. However, in the first phase, politics did not understand what it meant to prepare a strategic document, nor did it consider what would happen to this country on a 20-30-year timeline. Not five years and not two years until the next election. When colleagues talk about circuits, swimming pools, this is essentially a banalization of the situation arising from this document. These are some partial things that don't make any sense. Of course you need a third development axis. That's not even a question anymore. The previous government has also made a guarantee of something else, yes, it is being built, I apologize to my colleague Prednik, that is not the question at all. But the question is whether this is part of a strategic document based on the European Commission's Green Breakdown Guidelines on digital breakthroughs. That's the question. You've come from the wrong assumptions, from the assumption that you're meeting with the mayors. Great! The mayors will, of course, tell you that they need a sidewalk and they need a sewer. And also in your opening presentation, Minister, or you said later, yes, you thought that sewerage was a green breakthrough. No, sewerage is a civil standard that this country must provide, just like a water supply. The green breakthrough perceived by the world and Europe is a more visionary view of where we will develop society in order to make this breakthrough. As far as I'm concerned, Minister, if we all want to be good together or if you want to be constructive, it's advice, and it's repeated advice today, or the red thread of everyone telling you to be easy up to 30. 4. When we all have time together, prepare a document that can be short or long, even better if it is a short one, in which we say the strategic direction of our country. Yeah, until 2026, but let's see that this is a matter that goes on for a few years. This document, I hope that colleagues have read it, is full of contradictions, is visionless, without understanding green and digital and is without reflection on the future. It's some kind of glue. What's taking him so long? This is my thinking - because there are a lot of sentences in there and it's very textually complicated in an unnecessary way, so that three-quarters of the Members don't read it, because it's a pawn, and this is part of it, let alone the public. If we prepared a short document, everyone would probably read it like this and understand what the strategic direction of this country is, not this government. In this document, it's not this government, it's these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u96	First of all, one explanation of what kind of document is involved in this case. It is not only a strategic document, but it is an implementing document, so no additional documents will be written on the basis of this plan, but it will also provide a basis for individual reforms and investments. As a result of this technique, they require a little more detailed treatment. However, I have already said on the Committee that, before this process is completed, the main part of this document will be reduced to what is understandable to every average citizen and to all the techniques that must be taken into account by virtue of the rules in force in the European Union, the annex to this document. As to the contribution of some highway connection, the third development axis in Koroška, for example, to reducing emissions. Before you there is a Member from Koroška Jani Prednik, let him tell you whether the discharges are now more or will be after this road is made. I think there'll be fewer. And if I keep going. There will be fewer when the road to the White Landscape is made. This one will be made, too. At least there would be if there were no freight traffic through Slovenia. And that's utopia, we all know. What do you think would happen in Europe if the whole of Slovenia closed down no more traffic, we do not move, stop everything? Do you think that in general the picture of the climate, the releases and everything else would mean any significant progress and change? We need to look at the whole picture. When this national carrier was mentioned, it should already be established. This was already a commitment in the past, because through harmonisation of individual public transport systems we want to improve and improve connectivity through public transport, through individual stakeholders who provide these services, because they are not now mutually coordinated. You know that we have a lot of this traffic going on at the same time, it's financed from different sources: one part of school transport, municipalities, the other part funded by the state's public line. These things need to be harmonised and, beyond that, they need to be reduced. So this matter is not irrelevant and it is in this direction to reduce these releases and so on. The direction to switch to other forms of transport is also the one that is crucial and will be at the forefront of the future. But Slovenia and Europe alone in this global world, if we do not achieve these changes more broadly, will probably not succeed in reducing these releases. One of the reasons why this material was internal and why it should have remained internal until the end is this debate that we have just heard. Because it's not finished yet because it hasn't been cleared. I have said that this document will ultimately be substantively consistent and administratively as it needs to be regulated in accordance with the Regulation. And once again, the targets of 60% are 37 or 40 green and at least 20 digital, of course they will be taken into account. There will also be no air carrier in the final plan. It will probably happen over this, on the basis of commercial interest. But this plan won't be because we agree here, it's not one of the priorities we should be defending. In the first variants, it was in these ambitions to do as much as possible, many things. You need to know that when this process started, we had 10 billion proposals from individual areas and 10 billion proposals from individual ministries. It's like a giant piece of shit that had to be pulled out of. It's about the labour market. An essential part of financial measures will be implemented through cohesion policy. It was already implemented from 2014 to 2020 and will be implemented in the future from 2021 to 2027. But in the labour market, it's not the most important thing to deal with the consequences. We need to start as I said, in the field of education and people, focusing on the professions of the future. This will also solve the problems that arise in the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word, and he'll get the word "mag" behind him. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, buddy Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must admit that I take the proposal for a recommendation on the preparation of the national recovery and resistance plan prepared by the opposition today as a kind of well-intentioned gesture, a well-intentioned gesture in order to begin with the fact that time has become clear to the Kranjaks. Since 2011, since I am in the National Assembly, I must admit that I have just looked at some of my basic discussions yesterday night, which I had at the beginning of my first parliamentary term, where I have somehow predicted where the world will go, where Slovenia should go, whose reforms would be crucial. I was one of the few people who talked about education reform, the professions of the future, the technologies of the future. I must admit, it was my duty, too, after all. With technologies for digitisation of smart manufacturing processes, then automation, in the early 1990s, when we also first started with my former employer Siemens to talk about industry 4.0, I'm talking about 1993 and beyond, we knew where around Europe could go just because we took the primate of China. I have to tell one story to keep you somehow in your memory. You may all remember the cold war processes. At the time of Reagan's victory, America, in order to defeat the so-called former socialist or communist states, announced a special doctrine that was not based on the classic war industry, about an arms race, but for the first time came back to history somehow and found out who would have the technology and who would master these technologies would be the leader of the world. In the early 1980s, Reagan's administration declared war on these countries with the doctrine of war of the eville Empire, which is the fight against the empires of evil, as they called these communist states. They only had three points. First point, low oil price. They started using their own resources, i.e. which prices reached sub-production prices. The second point, the most important point of the 1980s, was the ban on the sale of the then microprocessors to all these countries. Third point, the production of new weapons that these microprocessors will somehow manage. The first such war took place after this attack on Iraq in the early 1990s, where you could for the first time detect weapons with a target system. They literally surprise you in their own bedroom and so on. What happened after the breakup of the Soviet Union was, in fact, a technological victory. In all technological revolutions, starting with the first to lead to industrialisation, with the second to electrify mankind, the main feature of Ford's second industrial revolution was the invention of a liquid band, resulting in the electrification of production processes. The third, which was somehow created, we call it automation, could be said in the 1960s, but in particular it was accelerated in the 1970s by the invention of the first Intel 8-bit Z80 processor, and later by Motoroline 16 bits and so on. All of this led to a third industrial revolution. At the fourth, we can talk about an industrial revolution that has special characteristics. Not only did it start with the invention of some technology or some product, but it somehow integrated all of these technologies into one concept. It's connected micro-systems to macro-systems and somehow these things work together. So easily, if I try to explain this to average citizens, industry 4.0 also works. The Fourth Industrial Revolution therefore connects systems, both micro-enterprises and public administrations, as well as smart logistics “just and time” and somehow these systems cooperate with each other. Why is that important? It is important that, in the fourth industrial revolution, Europe, with relatively solid infrastructure, could acquire many industries that have already lost their primate in Europe and have long gone to China, back and became so competitive that even cheap labour in China could be compensated by this hyper-production, greatly increased productivity, of a manna of European quality of life against China's full exploitation. Today there were words why the Minister, the Secretary of State, did not give a greater emphasis to the green transition in this document. On the one hand, I am pleased by all these discussions, and on the other hand, there are debates that I have seen as children in a television journal when we were still fighting hungry children in relatively poor Yugoslavia in Africa. We can't save this. Just one example of who is essentially polluting the environment around us and who is making climate change. Look at China. China is aware that in its hyperproduction it urgently needs extremely cheap energy, including extremely cheap electricity as the most universal energy for production. Now it's just statistics for everyone you've ever spoken to in front of me. Between 2000 and 2020, China averaged between 40 and 80 new coal power plants each year. The installed power from 2000 to 2020 is 943 gigawatts. If I translate this into the language of TES 6, which we talk about most often, even though TES 6 itself has a coal combustion system under higher temperatures, under higher pressure and consequently means less CO2 emissions per megawatt hour, it is about the size of the thousands of 750 of our power plants, such as TES 6. One thousand and a half. This is followed by India, followed by other Asian countries. America has ten times fewer releases, and I am speaking, of course, of these most dirty coal-fired thermal power plants. Just so we know what we're saving. I am also talking a lot about Germany, about their relatively radical approach to the green breakthrough, as far as energy is concerned. Germany today has major problems with the stability of the system. Bavarian, as you know, is almost all about photovoltaics. Ten years ago, they had to literally build some new thermal power plants just to have a stable electricity system. But we can also say today that if we go this way, Slovenia will have electricity for households in the next ten years more expensive by almost 50%. This means that an average of 30 euros for renewable energy will be paid for the household. Today it is €5 or €6. I'm for the green break. But I'm for a smart green break. In this regard, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture last year, I have set up this new concept, also part of geothermal energy use technology in Slovenia, which we have at least in the eastern part at hand. Here I must point out that there have been no objections, neither with the Left, nor with the SD, nor with this middle. I have to admit, things have started very positively. Somehow we started some renaissance of using that energy. And this energy in our neighborhood, which has a very bad potential, but we have the Slovenians, especially in the eastern part, looking for their way. It is an extremely positive story; today is not enough time to explain it. I believe that by using geothermia, we will first place it among renewable energy sources, we will be able to make up for electricity, including vegetable production, district heating and significantly reduce CO2 and thus compensate for some greater CO2 production ahead. The next review was to the minister, if you're building concrete, we don't need concrete. Look, in the history of these industrial revolutions, you couldn't start a new one unless you've led the previous one to some level. We cannot build 4.0 production or even 5.0, which speaks of even greater integration, to introduce humanised robots that work with people if we do not have those basic infrastructures. We can't skip some kind of development phase. And that's what the minister was talking about today. We urgently need a few more roads because we are in a developmental backlog in relation to the countries to which we like to compare ourselves. We're sorry in five years, look, I'd really like to, we're not going to drive the cargo to Koroška and back with drones; we're going to need the highway. On this highway, however, self-propelled trucks will be able to drive if we introduce a 5G network that will not even have battery power. It's probably going to be fuel cells, that's hydrogen, in freight traffic, at least that's how I see it. At the moment, when I say this, my colleagues are already preparing a hydrogen exchange in Europe, in the world and also in Slovenia. So hydrogen. That's how synthetic gasoline comes in. You need to know, he's not coming, he's right in front of us. I always say what most people will say in five or ten years, I'm trying to figure it out for you, and that's the problem. The classic vehicles today, if you look at Euro 6, I drive the Euro 6 myself, and the latest findings of the German automotive industry are that diesel also has extremely low releases, especially with new technologies, i.e. complete nitrogen burnout. That's it. That's it. The next issue is change. Since I've been in the National Assembly, when we've just started talking about reforms, even the pianists have once reminded us, maybe even the Minister of Colleague Chernač will remember, say, SDS, please, if you want to still win the elections, don't talk about the reforms. All Slovenians are for change, but when it comes to me when I have to change, then I'm up against it. You're talking about another word relationship, just not reform. And look, school reform. If Slovenia wants to make up for this, we cannot have a naturalist structure like Germany, which has millions of patents on the other side of the brand, which are probably worth 10 times the value of Slovenian gross social product. That's why they can afford some sleep. But the Czechs, the Slovaks have about 45 to 50% naturalists. China has 2,000 universities, 70% of natural science. We have never said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are against sociology or social development; we urgently need it in this revolution. Sociology and science must go hand in hand. In the first year, sociologists must have some subjects in physics, mathematics, as scientists must also have some subjects in philosophy and other social sciences. On this basis, universities like Stanford, Harvard, MIT, and so on, as I've said many times. That I won't be too long. See, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have also drafted a resolution on digital transformation or transformation in this mandate to express myself better. I must also admit that the debate was correct, despite the fact that we have fallen through, you have not confirmed it. Maybe if we made some adjustments, but we're aware of time and space. We are aware, and my verbal connections have been in this Parliament many times to get the cards mixed up in a new one. The cards are now really interfering with the new way they are now interfering with our generation. Such a time and space to have such an enormous opportunity to break through, for the breakthrough moment of Slovenia, and I appeal that we become fully connected and that at the thirtieth anniversary of our country's operation, Slovenian politics finally lays some fundamental foundation on which we do not need to share. I don't think there's a man in the National Assembly who doesn't want to be on one side of green Slovenia, but he can stay green only by controlling the hi-tech industry so that Slovenia doesn't become Switzerland, but I think he has to become a European Singapore. Singapore is known for its green and hi-tech industries. And this can be added value and the best social well-being for our people. In addition to this demographic fund, we will be able to tax millions of dollars back to this country, to education and to all these technologies. The last initiative, I hope that we will make it happen, is therefore the initiative of us as proponents to set up a digital and green transformation committee following the example of the German Bundestag, where last year I taught precisely on geothermals, is an essential condition because this committee can become a supercommittee at least in these policies of digital and green transformation. Here I want serious discussions mainly of Slovenian technical intelligence to get to this committee – no matter, from the left or right, it is important those of our best people who have knowledge not only in Slovenia, but may also work abroad. To give another impetus to the minister, the secretary of state and the other ministries, to make maximum use of this 5 billion, and to make use of this time, respected colleagues and colleagues, which will once again be remembered as a proud old man, as a time when we reunified when Slovenia breathed in new lungs when we finished the transition puberty, entered together for the new goal of Slovenia. Welcome to the future, welcome to the 4th and 5th Industrial Revolution! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr. Minister - because of the mask, I cannot see whether this is Mrs. Secretary of State next to you or anyone else - [[advertising from the hall]] Madam Secretary of State and co-worker, welcome! I must say, although, Mr Breznik, you are sitting on the other side of this small and round hall, I like discussions where we are talking not about ad persons, but about arguments. It doesn't matter if we think alike, but that we're talking about arguments. And you have now carried out one such debate, and I would like to see today's debate in its entirety. To talk about how we see Slovenia in the future, to compete with ideas, with plans, not in person. We can talk about the past, and we will find that we can actually talk about everyone about the past nicely, uglyly, or mediumly, but we have done nothing about it. I also know, Mr Minister, that where you are sitting now, it is not pleasant to sit in such debates because at times it feels like some kind of mini-interpellation. Well, that's not a mini interpolation. In fact, it is a desire to discuss something that is of utmost importance to all of us. You know, I know, the others here know, maybe the listeners, the viewers and the viewers don't know that Slovenia, at least as far as public finances are concerned, investment potential is not very much every year. A billion, maybe a little higher. That's what we can do something new with. We have such concrete budget lines that, in fact, the operational capacity of the government and the policy that could follow some of the new strategies is relatively limited because we already have most of the money allocated by law. Sometimes the coordination of the budget essentially resembles a technical process rather than a political process, because there are always some priorities to be set and discussed. I will not speak ill of your plan because there is no need. I believe you've done your best, and your job has some limitations, not just time limits, including the number of people and so on. I hate to hear you speak ill of our plan. We have engaged him in good faith, we do not have the Slovenian administration behind us, where there are so many and so many people, but we have gathered a group of people, talked, sat down dinners and so on. This is just a product and there is no need to measure this product. I don't measure yours either. If I move on. I'm among those who want to praise you at one point. I'm agreeing that ideas also grow from the bottom up. That's when they're easier to come by. And if we admit it or not, the local community in Slovenia, in general, are exceptions, of course, more rational than looking at investment and planning from the country down. We have a number of bad experiences in this direction. Of course, I agree that it's a combined approach. It's very hard to write the material this size when you wrote it. I also agree, the mayors tell me that there have been quite a few consultations, that they have been listened to, and that is what they say. In fact, however, we are talking about priorities. We have just over a million or more billion, less than 2 billion grants, and the rest are recoverable. Who exactly are we going to give this money to? We need to focus on it as we feel, we know as well as the profession tells us that there are meaningful priorities for the development of the country in the future. I can see these priorities a little differently than you, even though I haven't really had a chance to talk to you about it. You said that there were also discussions at closed meetings of the committees, but Parliament's competence is very great and wide – we were both in the past, even at the same time – but the MEP has one drawback. We are not the bearers of all knowledge, which is currently present in Slovenia. Here we are not the bearers of all the experience that is currently present in Slovenia and we must and it is right to take into account the views of NGOs, the positions of the profession, which were more than I was involved in the preparation of this document. However, it is also now an opportunity until the time when the official material has to be submitted to Brussels for this error to be remedied. I am pleased that the general direction of the European Commission, the European Parliament, is a green breakthrough. Of course, I am afraid of this House. I don't know if you've been informed, but you probably know that last December at the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement, the Secretary-General of the United Nations had a very emotional speech. Antonio Guterres then pointed out in his emotional speech what is happening to us in the climate, including so emotionally calling on all other countries that are not yet – 38 countries until then, interestingly, that the Vatican, too, has declared environmental and climate crises to do so because of their symbolic significance and to insist on this expression until we reach the goal of a carbon-free society. Many countries have taken this into account. In this House, Mr Minister, we are divided exactly in half, which is essentially quite unusual to me. How can you not admit he's out at night if it's nighttime? How can we not say that in times of the environmental and climate crisis, we are the most endangered world in the world globally, society, individuals, biotopes? How else is this Parliament to be divided in half. I believe it is entirely possible that next week, when we vote on the committee responsible, there will be exactly a half-and-a-half vote on something that even the Vatican has done, what the European Parliament has done, what the Secretary-General has asked us to do. There is a potential that we will not be able to admit that we are living in a world that is at some point sick. The environment of the climate is sick and needs to be remedied. If we are not able to recognize as a political class in this House that there is a disease, then how do we think that the treatment we are programming and planning will be successful? Well, I'm gonna make a dot here. I'm not gonna talk about the environment anymore. Now, health care. I think that the current crisis within the desire to control the covida-19 epidemic has shown that we can really rely on the Slovenian public health system, even hospitals have played their part, including health workers who can only be thanked. In fact, we have all come to the conclusion that in the last ten years, perhaps twenty years, investments in this important infrastructure that provides health security have been understated. But then there are different excuses that we were in a time of economic, financial, social crisis, constantly talking about fiscal rules, we also had great pressures from the outside, all the way through this mantra, so you can only use what you have. That's all I understand. But the fact is that the investments were smaller than we would like, and now this concrete plan, that is, the recovery plan, for recovery, for resilience, gives us the opportunity to strengthen that part of the system that is so important to us. I estimate that the planned funding for investments in health care in the programme is insufficient. Even if we start to throw some numbers on paper, if we start with the necessary renovations in Murska Sobota, the lack of hospital facilities and new constructions in UKC Maribor, the lack of new constructions and adaptations in UKC Ljubljana and others, we find that we have a medium-term project ahead of us if we seriously start it, which is probably harder than a billion euros. This is probably, I hope that the epidemic has taught us this, the most important investment medium-term project ahead of us in the next five to seven years. This ambition, I would like it to be in the papers prepared by Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State and the rest that this ambition is more present. We also talked yesterday about health care, now we all talk, yes, invest, but in the end we will have to show these priorities in concrete papers. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is one of these papers. I wish that at this point, this point of determination, preparation for greater resilience to the new crises of Slovenian health care, was more ambitious. I appreciate that this is essentially a regional approach. For me it is terrible, I am from Murska Sobota, as you know, from that third of Slovenia, which is covered at tertiary level by UKC Maribor. It was terrible for me when I began to obtain data under the previous government and then was already in conflict with the previous, former, former minister when I realized that, for the period 2009-2018, there was not enough investment, but, according to some criteria, they were proportionally divided across Slovenia. But then when I see that the tertiary institution where my family will go, if we are sick, that essentially the Maribor UKC just fell out of Ljubljana's development projects. When I say Ljubljana, I mean governments in Ljubljana. And it didn't happen under this government, it did happen under the previous government, and probably before I did research, all the ministers said they had nothing to do with it. That's what the ministers usually say. I very much want the amount of money that will be made available from both the return and grant funds to strengthen and prepare for the greater resilience of the Slovenian healthcare system to increase significantly. I would like to point out that I already recognize the regional approach. I appreciate that in fact you have had a lot of consultations with regional, local communities, this is important, this is always lacking in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana, it is constantly thought that all intelligence is gathered here, but it is not. There is also a lot of good in the regions, although it is possible to say it by the Saturday of Mur2 kilometers, but that does not mean that our opinion is less valuable and that we do not have the right to say it. I would suggest that we continue to have a few weeks of time, even a few hours of debate today, so that we do not talk about this subject to ad persons, because it is too important. We are talking about the investment potential of 5.2 billion, Mr Minister, which is available through this paper, because then there will probably be some more multipliers. We are talking very openly about the development priorities of Slovenia. There's no need for any political overplay here. Of course, it would be ideal for these priorities to finally have a consensus, because when it is implemented, there will be no more of this government, another government or even a third government. And at this point, I am also concluding my debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u101	Thank you very much. He's got the word Gregor Perič, ready to be Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u102	Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings, Minister, Secretary of State! I am pleased that we are here today and that we are discussing this important document, which, in my opinion, will not lead to another truly great revolution. There is some additional assistance, the European Union, the European Commission or institutions of one kind or another in the final phase have finally agreed that the European Commission will move in this sense, as well as the formation, as political creation itself, because the situation is serious and acute. I am a little less pleased that, from the moment the pandemic occurred, until the moment it really begins to talk about some concrete funds that will reach Member States, it will be, if I have calculated correctly, at least 15 months, which means that each Member State has to find its own answers and, in particular, its own financial resources, including with or in particular with debt. In recent days, I can also say weeks, in fact, after each adoption of the CAP, we are very much talking about how we owe ourselves, how this debt is too much, how all these funds will have to be returned. He's holding it all together, I agree. When I took into the Orcs this alternative plan for recovery and resistance prepared by the opposition, I was most surprised by the fact that the debt is no longer a problem once in a while. If I'm reading these tables right now, there's 7.8 billion of this projected debt. So now I don't really understand methodologically whether debt is a problem or not. Even at the beginning of this week, I think that in the questions sent to the Prime Minister, if I am not deceived by my memory, the opposition has said that this space, which we as a country have in view of these manoeuvres for additional indebtedness, is shrinking. Then we take into our hands the document prepared by the opposition, and we see that 8 billion additional debt is no longer a problem. Here we must first set ourselves on some uniform criteria, in fact we need to simplify the methodology or even a view of debt. If the commitment depends solely on whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition, then we have not achieved our purpose. This is not what will lead us to some very concrete solutions or the challenges ahead. Yesterday we also talked a lot about the national demographic fund, what its role should be. This is not directly related, but indirectly because it also affects demographics as well as adding different components, i.e. family policy and scholarship policy. And it was clearly expressed by the opposition that it was not, by any means, wrong. Then we take this document back into our hands and we see that the DUTB, the Company for Bank Claims Management, so the so-called bad bank, would build some student apartments, if I understand. Therefore, once again, it would not, and in this respect it would be necessary to unify itself. If we are talking about some strategic documents, I think it would be appropriate for you to try to unify these basic parameters in the opposition, when you propose them, because otherwise these dissonances are very strange. So I will say, I expected more from the European Commission. Above all, without going in the direction that these procedures are additionally and needlessly bureaucratic, because then we know what that means. I have a feeling that this experiment, or this process of red tape, has made it unnecessary for some countries to have made access to these funds more difficult at this stage, and this process may continue in the future. So I expect our Members of the European Union, above all, to send a message to the European Commission, that these procedures be short, fast, especially effective and that, for the first time, they will achieve the goal, but that they will achieve it most quickly. Because otherwise, we must be aware that we are not alone as the European Union, but that we have a global view of the many competitors who, at this time, are all too early to rest. Some have even been through this period of pandemic very well. I'm thinking about China here, most of all. And if we are not quick and responsive in this regard, this will be fully known in the political, geostrategic field in the coming decades, and from an economic point of view, this will also be known in our economic standard. Which surprises me a little bit in all these debates, that so far behind closed doors, that I say, as well as in this open forum, there was not a single word or a single sentence on what we are going to do to activate private capital. We cannot only count on all of us to fund with the help of our national budget or with the help of funds from the European Union, but we must do much more in order to activate private capital. And there doesn't have to be any political know-it-all here, and even fewer experts, that whenever such an initiative occurs on our tables, both at the government or in the national assembly, at least one part of the political space will hear very loud criticism, if we don't need it, and that's not okay, and we can do everything from the budget. We have listened similarly to individual infrastructure projects, and I am sure that if any such proposal comes to the table, this register will be repeated. The fact is, however, that all the more serious financial levers within the European Union are combined with both public capital and private capital. It was very interesting to hear one of the arguments why we should open this debate and why we need to talk very widely and with many actors when there was a comparison between Slovenia and Italy. We now know that in Italy the government has fallen at the very point of this coordination around the recovery and resilience plan. They have formed a new government, which is in some way technical or, if you want, even very wide, has very many customers in it, because they have seen easily that all these political conflicts and resentments must be put aside and put together species in particular and go into action. The Italians understood that, we haven't yet, but I hope we will one day. Something else happened in Italy. On Monday, March 1, 2021, the government formed, and the newspaper La Repubblica wrote about something. First, we need to talk a little bit about the background of the newspaper itself. The magazine La Repubblica was first very left, but now it is central to central or liberal. It was in La Repubblica on Monday, and now I'm going to translate a little. So Mario Draghi decided to write his own national recovery and resistance plan. Well, not alone, but he put another minister and a few experts on this team. All of what we are listening to today, what we should do and how we should further expand and include yet I do not know how many stakeholders in the drafting of this document have, for example, taken a completely opposite path in Italy. They've locked themselves in an office, they've gone into some kind of clause, and with some political consensus, they'll come out with some kind of proposal that they'll also, I believe, confirm. I cannot imagine what it would be like for the Prime Minister to say that he himself would write this document in Slovenia. I guess it'd be a fair shot. Interestingly, though, no one mentions this next step taken by Italy. Everyone mentioned that this had led to the collapse of the government and that this was very important, but from the point of view of openness, I don't think there was a word in our National Assembly. So the way to get to this document is obviously more than just one. We have chosen one which I think is an appropriate compromise for Slovenia, for the Slovenian situation, as well as for the political situation. First, some drafts were developed, which then took place through a process and through different stakeholders, not only the mayors, but also many others, the economy, also NGOs, which for example are not in Italy, then this document was being watched and I believe that it will drink for a while, mainly with the European Commission. And it would be nice for the European Commission to also identify exactly what criteria and criteria it will set, because it will make it very easy for Member States to work and also reduce this shift, in time, in terms of drawing itself. When I listen to all these positions today, there's only one way to get to these documents. If we look only a little wider, we see that it is not exactly the same and that there are obviously more right ways, but everything depends on how much we trust each other or not. I would point out once again that when I look at this alternative proposal and compare it with that draft set up by the government, it is absolutely necessary to take into account the fact that on my part, having many services in ministries is something completely different, but it is still cool when some of the strategic documents are written that then policies in other areas are consistent with this, which in this case was not reflected. And if I misinterpreted, I believe that someone will correct me and explain where these derogations are in the very understanding. But the fact is, it's something. No matter what, we have resources that are limited. This crisis has simply shown that, in all those areas that we have neglected, we have received a very well-resourced account. And I believe, taking into account the experience brought by the pandemic as such, it gives particular attention and attention to the health sector, which I think is okay, as well as to the area of infrastructure. If someone lives in an urban environment and has a few minutes away from all possible services, he looks at the world in a very different way than someone who lives far away from some centers on some outskirts. The mental concept of these two individuals, we can take two typical citizens of Slovenia, is significantly different. In spite of all the facts and all the circumstances that we know to be from the point of view of the environment and climate, it seems very important that we devote all the attention we have not paid in the past to individual regions in Slovenia. That is why I do not see any obstacle and no problem, because there was no problem in previous governments that we should also pay attention to this in terms of investment in infrastructure. I therefore absolutely believe that it is necessary to take a reasonable approach to these investments. Because we can say that we will put the bulk of some infrastructure money in the railways, but if we don't have the appropriate projects ready for this, and if we don't make it through that time, I don't know if we've done ourselves a favor. We'll probably get them back. They'll go somewhere else. Therefore, it is simply necessary to assess what we have already done and to further focus on those regions that have been pushed aside in the past. Because if it is development, then it must be development for everyone, both for the center and for the slaves. As it is said, experience in the adoption of these documents varies across Member States. I believe that in this time that we have left, we will, by the end of April, present such a document as the State, which will be confirmed. However, I was also very disturbed by the report that the European Commission has already rejected this document twice, which has not actually been submitted to the European Commission at all, because even if they wanted to, they could not, because there was no legal basis for it. So from the point of view of reporting or communication, we can all do ourselves a favor together, at least a little more correctly. I think there will be plenty of opportunities for participation today as well. The deadline has been offered quite a bit and if we all know to take one step back in the interest of the Slovenian state, Slovenian citizens and citizens, I think it will only be useful. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u103	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u105	I agree with that in the end, but, you know, the hand is offered, but he's limping at the same time. I don't know if it's an offer. And when Mr Draghi has already been mentioned, but you know, Mr Draghi is not some angry little man from Rome who spends two or three hours tweeting. In those rare leisure moments he has, he usually reads his study books at the pool. At the age of 15, he lost his parents, and the Jesuits trained him. Maybe we should think a little bit about who we have as Prime Minister. Well, it's not just about the current Prime Minister. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the word to prepare Janez Muskrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues, co-workers who still insist on saying good-bye to everyone! With interest, I am following this debate today. However, it is a fact that we speak too much in Slovenia, and we do too little in the area of European funding. Today, I have expected a much more substantive debate at least by the motions to convene this extraordinary session than by some general syllabus on green, digital, more resistant and I do not know what policy, in short, to go from those general Flossules to the actual needs of Slovenia at the vertical or horizontal level, i.e. from the region to the region or from the area to the area. But since the proponents have not done so, I will not suggest to Minister Chernač myself what my wishes would be for Posavia or another region, but I will write this in an electronic message. However, that there was no expectation of any particular debate in essence shows the very document by the proponents, as opposed to the bulky troupe that was prepared at the service under the ministry of Mr Chernač in some groups both at government and government level, we have 23 pages here with some floscules, with some copy-paste projects. However, it seems crucial to me that we are not talking enough today to have been very successful in negotiating these European funds, as well as in the recovery and resilience plan. It seems to me that too many times in Slovenia we talk about how we will share, not where we will get or how we will create. In particular, representatives of the party who is not currently here, Members of the Left. They love to talk about how they're going to share money, but I don't feel like they have any idea how to get money. That is why I am not surprised that they have not commended the efforts made by Slovenian officials, and especially the politicians, that we have successfully reached content on the European floor. As far as the involvement of so-called actors or stakeholders was concerned, today I felt that some would like actors before the document was even prepared. For those of you who were once government Members or any other function, you probably did not expect the National Assembly to consider individual material before the government. The hierarchy is clear. First a draft is made, then in two narrow groups it pre-debates, and then it goes to different segments. Here I welcome what Minister Chernač did with the team, that he asked those who had the most idea about it first. In my opinion, one of the key stakeholders in this plan is the Regional Development Agency. Let us let some dream from year to year, like many ministries, leave urgently needed and important projects. But I think that the very composition of the regional development agencies, which includes both mayors and individual stakeholders from different spheres, is the right moment to look at what is already being prepared. Why do I think it's important that we look at what's already ready? Because today some kind of philosophy, bluffing or even dreaming about what would be great if we had in Slovenia a plan for resistance and recovery, that is now out of the question. The hands are famous. Even those projects that are envisaged, such as building permit or similar, are a question in all this Slovenian bureaucracy and in dealing with the success, failure in European funds, or will we know how to draw on these funds. But I know, at least as far as individual regional development agencies are concerned, that there is much more desire than financial frameworks, although some think that with five billion European funds, whether they are recoverable or irreversible, we can solve all the problems that have remained unresolved in the last few years or decades. That is why I have repeatedly smiled today when, above all, I have heard the word "development" by the opposition's motions. Some Members, however, were preparing a pension reform, a labour reform, a demographic fund that was already 80% ready, a long-term supply of 80% at the time. At that time, they were against and ruled between 2012 and 2020, and they did not even know how to make use of it, and they also had important European resources at their disposal. So I hope it's last time that acts are what some people say. When we talk about development, too many times on the left-hand side of development are just talking, and then on the right-hand side are those who also need to make this development concrete with individual projects. It also appears that the left would rather share with its own banks and banks, but the right hand would rather give to people in particular or to the economy throughout our Slovenia. Why do I believe that Minister Cernac and his team will be able to take care of both the regional and the programming of this plan? I think that all Slovenian mayors agree that already his mini European case, which was carried out in 2012, has done for energy rehabilitation what some today oppose that he has put in concrete to Slovenian schools, kindergartens, and many other buildings save not only a few thousand euros a year, but several tens of thousands of euros that they can put into other development models. I know the headmistress who said, "I send 10 computers every year because we got the energy rehabilitation money from that call." And I know a lot of people are gonna say, ah, what are you saying to Lisec about developing with computers? But I think we agree, development also begins with our youngest and begins somewhere beyond the visual concept of the capital. I support this government plan by the end of April. At this time, however, it will be further frigidized by certain stakeholders. But it's not just about the words with the team, but it's about the actions, it's about today's news. On the basis of the React-EU initiative, grants for the management of Ljubljana's nursing hospital are a continuation of the story which has already been with the Department for Pulmonary Diseases of the UKC Maribor and will be followed by a comprehensive renovation of the UKC Ljubljana buildings. In short, if we don't have concrete, we don't even have room for development. If anyone thinks that we're going to treat people with super beds somewhere on the lawns and in the fields, he probably made a big mistake. So, unfortunately, the foundation of development begins with concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u109	The basis of policy begins with thinking, but to my colleague Lisco politics is obviously a religious concept, because his most frequently used word was: I believe, I believe. With all due respect to you, mate, you basically said I was too proud to prepare for the meeting. Minimumly, what is expected of Members is to read the material. And we were, unlike these SVRK appendixes, I'll say, friendly to you. We have written to you our view of acceleration of development, we have shown you very nicely where there are differences between programming, as we see it, as you see it, also in the table. I actually expected you to define yourself, Mr Minister, and you in the debate to do so. And we would say that we agree here, we disagree here, and we argue that. That's politics. And we listened to what today? I don't know who's on Twitter or where Jancho's at risk, but I don't know what. What does this have to do with today's point? It's like I'm, I don't know, talking about a recipe for banana bread here. And then you read something to us. Well, come on, you need to take care of this session while you're too lazy to read our material. But I've read all this material and then I'd respond to these things, but then it's better, I don't know if we're going with Tinker Bell, we're going to stop for a day, and we're going over this material and we're going over it. Because there's no willingness here on your side. Your colleague here says I'm quoting some Marx, but I didn't mention him. Everyone needs to say hello to their patient in the client room, then we can only communicate. But if someone throws a tomahawk for decades, it's hard to change. When I listen to this today, I remember another Bell that went from SDS to NSA, when he was still NSI, Ludmila's normal, but he couldn't get rid of SDS. He started talking normally, and then he started pounding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I wanted to start my contribution so much that, despite finding that after a few hours of discussion, this debate has somehow escalated into a calm, well-founded debate, unfortunately the proposaler has now upset our themes again. Above all, I listened to your colleague, my fellow Jew, and I remembered the date of February 19th, when I angered one another's colleague that I would never be offensive in this House, never accuse any of the lies. Today, however, I will call on all those who accompany this debate, especially the media, who will then summarise these debates, to try to really illustrate what it actually holds. So, in fact, something holds in all of our debates. And if I go to the debate. So it is true that in 2020, this was last year in the face of this difficult story with the crown in Europe as well, this turning point in the preparation of a new financial perspective. This perspective has already been prepared from the level of Slovenia. So certain concepts to which she's going have already been prepared. And the concept for Slovenia in agriculture was slightly worse than in previous years. But somehow that's how this European story should have gone if it hadn't happened. However, when the crown took place, our Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, expressed the view that the funds should be increased because Europe will be in a single stalemate because of the overall stalemate. We know that at the end of the day, Europe has taken over the position that it will relax certain financial institutions so that funds can be increased. These funds have increased for the region of Slovenia. Looking at the whole story, it's worth 12 billion euros. Today we are talking about a so-called recovery and resistance plan. This is a plan, it has been beautifully stated, which is primarily intended for this period of crown cramping. It is said that employment will not increase, that economic growth will rise a little faster, because it has fallen quickly, and somehow it needs to be brought back quickly. This was the main starting point of this programme. When at European level all statesmen are 21. 7. this accepted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already 24. 7. set up a working group. This working group was not set up to look for what needs are, but to find out on the basis of the state and situation of that country where they are in the country of need. When it comes to European funds, and not only to a recovery and resilience plan, but also to other funds, this distinction is always between green, between development and all these elements, which have already been repeatedly said today, how much percentage of what needs to be included. This is already in all documents, not just in this recovery and resilience plan. As the plan began to be drawn up, the European Commission also prepared more precise rules accordingly. We in Slovenia feel that we are facing a dilemma of bread and pot, which is probably familiar to everyone. Some talk only about upgrading the existing system that is supposed to operate in the country. If we go specifically to health care. I am the absolute advocate that in health care, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, in Europe too, high technologies will probably have to dominate high technologies. If I'm specific, let's say a so-called magnetic resonance, with which doctors are very helpful. With us, it's all science to come to this investigation. So you sign up and then the doctor makes the whole round of getting the test back. I imagine that every time you go to your personal doctor, some technology, I'll say, scan and through computer technology algorithms find out if your spine is really so damaged that you can't work, go to work, you need therapy, or is that part, as they say, of age changes and so on. Well, then we're going to Slovenia. In Slovenia, in 2021 we can only allow ourselves to talk about whether we know that we simply need to repair, edit and upgrade existing facilities. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have absolutely always determined that we need to regulate existing facilities. When we repair the main building of the UKC, we will also be able to fully equip it with this technology, which is still, say, under construction, or even the fruit of Slovenian knowledge, scientists from Slovenia. Then we can move on. It was obvious that this document was prepared in secret. Look, we've cleared this up today. So we know that he was not prepared in secret, we know that the needs of Slovenia are mostly in the field of ecology, sewerage and the like, mostly in the field of health, in the field of elderly people, all these needs have been widely known, exist for a long time and have not been created by this government. They were created because the priorities of all governments or many governments were misdirected. When this government made it clear that health care, homes for the elderly, was strictly a priority for us, and presented the story also by having to turn the picture upside down on the day of the truth, the truth was that we had been investing in the wrong stories or too little in important stories in recent years, and there was a scream and a scream. And it's a very bad scream and a scream. Here we can recall a familiar river: When you speak the truth, have a saddle horse and a leg in the spring. This is always happening to our Prime Minister and to any other Member. Some people call him, I don't know what. Look, in addition to the key documents that I absolutely agree with, which the Minister has also shown, the numbers have to turn, the funds have to go to the homes for the elderly, the funds have to go to the hospitals, the funds have to go to the young, and then the rest of the stories can be co-financed. There is also a picture missing, as said my colleague Polnar when we have to recover at least 700 million unpaid taxes. I was a small entrepreneur myself, and I don't even know how some of them can get these numbers from a taxpayer. But when the government says, or the supporters of this government, that it will do something about it, some are afraid again. But these are the priorities that will be needed in order to be able to take out the full picture of the recovery and resistance plan. It has also been said several times that only certain projects, such as the REACT project, have been identified. REACT is only 330 million, which again addresses the same problems. Because we have the same problems all the time. Until we cut and say no, we have to give for the homes for the elderly, not like from 2012 to 2020, when there were no state beds, no concession beds and even the numbers were then very high in the public, that over 10,000 of them were waiting for homes for the elderly and the like. Look, we don't just have a nursing home. We also have to watch yesterday's debate on the demographic fund and the like. This painting can turn around, too. If the families are larger, then there will be some people within the families who can take care of the elderly and the elderly will be part of the whole system. So not just in nursing homes, it is clear to everyone, so there are other institutions or similar institutions and similar stories today. So it's all connected. These are the key elements that I support and, if I am honest, what I said I am listening to as a Member, which is why I am even criticised. Look, this is what was said today. The fact is that the successful planning of spending these resources will depend on saving lives in and outside nursing homes, providing beds in hospitals, maintaining jobs for employees, addressing the social pressures of young people, older people, those who have landed on the road because of the crisis, solving the housing problem and so on. Therefore, planning these funds is to the greatest extent possible a matter of public importance, a respected minister. That's what the proponents said. I completely agree with that. But this was said in the last 30 seconds of a 15-minute debate. Before that, it was everything else. And I feel so bad that it wasn't a dot made here. Because then it was said “and that’s why it’s a disaster that you’ve been doing this spiritually all the time”. So, a foreigner is used to insult all those who work. That they've been making conspiracy, subtly, I don't know what kind of contemporaries, secret, criminal, opposing, and so on. No, that's certainly not what this government is about. The mayors, the representatives of the regions, all those who participated, will also say this. For the third time today, I am speaking about this document in this national assembly. It's just a sentence, even though my colleague already said it. Internal document, as to the internal document, why an internal document is produced. We all had to make education out of this area, not long ago we had to do it. Why? Since when specific cases are in there, for example 68 million was written for the UKC main building, today the minister said the amount of 50 million. You see, the plan also contained some specific issues or annexes, and until these figures have been somehow addressed, including those identified not least, we have just found out what the requirements of the European Commission or of those who decide. So for us, sewerage is the bread we need to continue to upgrade the green, clean environment. This is already a forgotten story for Europe, because they are already there through this sewer, for which it is only 40% or as much as the minister said. And we're gonna have to fix those numbers, too. If this document were to be treated as a public document in the initial stage, then whoever introduced it would have a lot of problems when everyone was talking, yeah, and it says that, and it says that there, and it says that, and now it's not. This was a document that we have come to know, as Members of the Group are familiar with. We received this document through the board members, but some have seen the conspiracy of this government. So I hope that those who listen will see that we must provide all the necessary infrastructure as soon as possible, that we will then follow the thinking of our colleague Breznik or what I have presented, what I want or what I see in the future, and not least what I have said about green. It is not green for us to cut down Slovenian quality shades, take it to a neighbouring country and then bring in vacuum-packed semi-manufactured semi-manufactured products from a neighbouring country and build largely Slovenian public, private and so on. We need that article in there. In particular, the production of wood glues, because we know that we cannot just cut the tree and then build public buildings with that cut tree. There are still intermediate stages that we're missing. This is that we will build wood because it is renewable because it is ecological and so on because we have such an increase in Slovenia, which we agree on. Finally, we agree, in the beginning, we agree, but in the meantime, what we are missing, we find it difficult to agree. So now we're still that intermediate phase. That's what I see, and that's why I support it. I think that the proponents want to do it in the same way, but just to skip certain things can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Nick Prebil. [[advertising from the hall]] Do you have a replica? I didn't hear you. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u113	Thank you. Great, I'm glad that colleague Moskritch agrees that everything is not in concrete or in long-term care, not elsewhere. See, in our alternative proposal of a national, not a party, national recovery and resilience plan, we have programmed on the health item 298 million more than a government proposal. On the development items discussed by my colleague Breznik and on the technological side I strongly agree with him, smart specialisations, industrial transitions, entrepreneurship, digitisation, ecological tourism, forestry, agriculture and so on, almost half a billion more, 450 million almost. The government has 60 minutes announced, SDS 90, SMC 30, NSI 35 and you said, ah, fuck, we can't read this, it's all out of touch. And that's how you offer your hand. And then we're not serious. However, Mr Minister himself, who has a few minutes to go, did not really define himself in one hour. He's been talking all over the place.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Proposer's representative, Nick Prebil, and then he gets the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Two things that do not fit in the discussions of previous colleagues mainly from coalition parties are the following. I do somehow get the feeling that you just don't understand or want to understand the meaning or suggestion that is ahead of you. Now you're talking here, some of your colleagues said if you do, we're not going to touch it today, but let's compliment Minister Chernach and, of course, the boss. What was negotiated? No kidding, nothing was negotiated. It was obtained more because it was agreed more and they all got more. Janek only put a writer in there and the money fell in. That's how it was negotiated. So let's be honest! And when we talk about concrete, let's talk about investments, that's what's more important. I completely agree with you. Hospitals need to be built up, homes need to be built for the elderly, they need to be energy-saved. But what good will the hospital do us if we don't have the personnel to work there? Why isn't there a shot and I'll tell you. Ziff Janez Janša. Why hasn't it been built yet? Zif. Janez Janša. And I'm not going to go any further, because it all starts and ends with Zyph and Janez Janša. So the base, the key base is frame, is knowledge, is potential. Without that, you are not helped by concrete, nor by green technology, nor by aliens if no one has the knowledge to use for the good of citizens and citizens. And this is where I'm gonna stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Černač has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u117	Yeah, the frame isn't because the registration policy has been wrong in recent years. But this government didn't do it. This government has recently saved 100 entries on profiles that are severely lacking in this country – 50 in medicine and 50 in computer science and IT. It is not true that I have not defined myself to this so-called alternative plan. I said it was more of a pianist move than anything else. However, it is normal for the opposition to have greater freedom to create individual solutions and to throw out investments and dispose of millions and billions of dollars than the government, which is limited to such and other financial frameworks. That is why I also said that I am surprised by this discreet person, while one of the proponents is talking about the problem of increasing public debt while at the same time proposing about the same content three times as the debt as envisaged in the plan. Over 8 billion are supposed to be in debt, over 8 billion. It's unacceptable, it can't be done, and you know it. But this approach of yours is a nice approach. Once again, this plan is not as important a resource as the important changes that are to be made through this plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Proposaler Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u119	The first thing that's too much cynicism is that it's said by someone who's in some government who, through the PKP, melts their pennies like they're growing on pear. That I'm polite because I wanted to use another metaphor, last but not least, to use it. Serious comparative analyses show that we give twice as much money for a slightly worse effect than the rest of our PKPs. That's what they calculated in Vienna. It wasn't me. And now you'll probably fight them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare for Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u121	Nice hello to you all! Let me begin by saying that I regret that this document was produced in the absence of public participation. If the public were to cooperate in a concrete way, there would be records, findings of these conclusions, as well as those of some 2 000 people, they would not have waited until last week for this document to be made public. And this is the main reason why we are disagreeable in Parliament and Slovenia. I myself have a lot of experience in evaluating European research projects for the purposes of the European Commission - Horizon 2020. This is a centralised tender. And I can only find that these projects, which are listed in the document, do not follow the European Commission's development spirit. This also comes from the government's view that climate change is a natural phenomenon that takes place over a longer period of time. I am very skeptical of the way the government communicates, as well as the members of the coalition, who justify one very low level of society's needs. We need to be aware, we have an eastern and western cohesion region where money is divided in 60:40, so in the east we get half as much as in the west, and development differences continue to increase because we have inadequate priorities in the strategic sense. The government should, when it's at work, tell us what development priorities are, where the flaws are. This plan, the recovery plan and the resistance of the covida – we have also discovered during this covida period where we have weaknesses, that is, in hospitals, pension homes. I welcome that in there. But we do know that covid also has cardiovascular disease, thrombosis, heart attacks. What are we going to do in this sense to prevent these things? We can't train so many doctors, so many hospitals, we can't cure all these patients. We have to stop them. Minister Poklukar said that cardiovascular diseases are one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health for prevention because their treatment is expensive. In fact, this plan lacks a strategic direction on how to address these things as cheaply and as efficiently as possible. The same applies to retirement homes. But we must also make sure that the elderly are as active as possible and that these expensive household provisions are not needed. Nor does this document specify measures to ensure that pensioners will be allowed to leave their home for two or three years. There are also no measures to ensure jobs. For example, how will we bring the 20,000 jobs in Austria back to Slovenia? These are strategic decisions which should be mentioned in the document and are not. Therefore, the document is not effective. It was created without the cooperation of the relevant professional public, and today we are faced with the fact that it needs to be corrected and handed over to Brussels within one month. More will be said by my fellow Member Bandelli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is Nick Prebil, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, I am here to discuss, not as a proposalr, but as a member of the LMŠ Group. For LMŠ, it is really important that we talk about this socially truly high priority issue. So the recovery and resilience plan, both national and European, will definitely shape our lives in the future. How we're going to educate ourselves, how we're going to live, how we're going to heal, how we're going to transport, how we're going to digitise, how we're going to change as a society as a whole, how we're going to improve the quality of our lives, and how we can be prepared for some possible new crises. And all of this will not be possible if such a plan is prepared in part for some individuals and not for society, if we look only within the walls in which you are. Today's session is actually a help. It is an alternative approach, a new view of this plan, a plan for our future. Now I'm not gonna say he's perfect because he's not. However, there is certainly a direction that is worth considering for a better plan for this future. I have repeatedly pointed out that, according to what I have seen before – I have seen the document as a Member – and given what you, the Minister, have presented to Members at a closed meeting and then at that public meeting, I have the feeling that this unique opportunity will not be used well and that those key projects for the country will actually remain in a drawer or in the head of someone you have excluded from this process. Now if we really go back to what I promised we'd talk about. The European Commission in the regulation – pay attention! — the legislative act, which is fully binding on the Member States, lists those six priority areas: green transition, digital transition, social and territorial cohesion, research and development. Of course, these guidelines focus on health, state and European resilience to crises and policies for the next generation, i.e. the future for young people, but also on the development of their skills. It takes into account all of the above, this government plan for recovery and resistance is essentially flawed in the foundation, basically. If you miss the first brick in building a house, you have the whole wall side by side. And that's exactly what happened here or it's still happening. It's either wrong or it's not really my guess. To date, we have not held key debates in this country, we have not resolved the key question of what the future is and where we want to go as a country, what we need to do to achieve this and how we will achieve this goal. This is the key first point that hasn't been made. Not that we didn't do it, the government didn't do it, if we're being thorough. We are really now at a point where things are divided into parts where everyone gets what he wants, so without some clear integrated direction and goals that will guide us from the crisis, or goals that will lead us forward. In my view, it is the right way to set a final objective and to set guidelines, i.e. projects, reforms, breakthroughs, in line with this final objective. Therefore, there is certainly a need to involve the general public, all those who are interested, and to connect in a broader way. That's the point of the plan. As we say, our proposal or the key part of this proposal ahead of you is the fight against climate change, the so-called green transition. I understand that this is particularly a difficult issue for the SDS party and a difficult area if there is someone among them who denies climate change and the impact of man on nature. But well, it's a topic for some other committee. Green breakthrough procedures involving sustainable mobility, greening of roads, the transition to rail transport of goods and people, the calming of traffic in urban centres and the transition to efficient and reliable public passenger transport, which, of course, cannot be achieved only through the creation of a new public society. One of the more important questions, and I've already said this at the board meeting, is how we're going to get electricity and how we're going to be able to take a deep breath in this society. That stinking tower there in Scotland will have to be closed by 2030 if you want to achieve climate neutrality. These are the targets that belong to this green breakthrough plan and where it needs to be achieved at least, I hope that there will be 50 of these, but 37% of the green transition. The second key objective is digital breakthrough. And not in a way that we buy new computers now and smash them through the government. Absolutely not. Digitalisation is, in the opinion of the LMŠ party to which I belong, the path towards recording and processing data at national level, in particular digitising the economy in a way that will in particular allow for higher added value of jobs, digitisation of transport links and then the company as a whole. The key goal is that in Slovenia we will not only be someone who produces, but we will also be someone who develops. This will enable cities with higher added value, which bring higher wages, higher pensions and so on. Like I said, it's not just some floscule I'm talking about. This is a fact, it is a long-term goal, a goal with which we will be able to give young people, perspective and educated staff, because we have quite a problem in the country, because we do not know how to keep it, allow them to work here and not go with the belly for bread to a foreign country where they are then well paid and rewarded for their knowledge. Knowledge that was actually paid by Slovenian taxpayers. So the key question is whether we will, you will see only and only until the next elections and funds are broken down into some like mini projects or you will, we will see this project as a whole and just a future for the next generation. As we say, reforms and investments must go hand in hand. I think it is important that funds may be distributed in a slightly different way and increased in those real areas to find an appropriate balance. I think the LMSH proposals and the KUL clients are exactly that. As it is said, time is no longer much, this matter goes beyond the mandate of one government and I think that narrowness can cost us very much. I am really asking you, Minister, too, despite the fact that you have made a very political decision today in your debate to take this into account as well-intentioned, that some of the proposals that I have just said and will continue to be taken into account. I don't think there's a point here in the left and right, but there's a point in the future of our country as a whole. Minister, you know that when the plan is approved, the European Commission, the Union as a whole, will give you 13% of the advance. I am sure that this will not be enough to launch those key projects, so it is certainly more than necessary to take into account some national contribution, some kind of own contribution. And we do this in a way that "when the money goes down," as our Southern colleagues would say, and then we'll work. We could start certain things today and then attach them to such a recovery and resistance plan. Maybe I'll go a little further into the projects. When we talk about breaking-in, we need to be aware, and back here there must be a calculation that I hope you have, how much digitisation and assistance to the economy will also help with financial contributions to new jobs, how many of these new jobs will these new jobs be and, above all, what will be the professional structure of the employees. I was talking about Green Transformation until 2030. Here is especially the energy rehabilitation of buildings. I think we need to take that into account. Not just building a new one. We have many unused buildings that need to be energy-saving and are entirely suitable for the spaces of some resources we need. It seems very important to use and use the existing resources to the end of this national plan, so that we can help them financially here. The use of wood was talked about by a colleague of Moškrič. I think there's also something that my colleague Lenart is going to say about this, which he's getting to know. But yes, we're not talking about some food self-sufficient biodiversity that would be necessary. Humanity has already done great damage to the Earth here, and in all this, Minister, I think it would be good to include private capital, because we are talking about such important projects, where perhaps the country is not the only actor in this area. Finally, the crisis has seriously affected the economy and cooperation and investing in this part will certainly be important. As for young people, I'll finish here slowly. It seems to me that the matter of battle is very much based on your plan. We have substantially increased funds for young people. We must be aware that the employment of young people in Slovenia is bad and you are misleading here in the SDS party. We have today in the crisis a very high unemployment rate of up to 30 years. But the reasons are the crisis and what I was talking about earlier. When we get to the young, we get to the next generation. This is a key intergenerational cooperation, an appropriate institutional support that enables such intergenerational cooperation and the provision of time-consuming employment, the eradication of penance. Here, young people will also have a significantly greater chance of prospering not at 35 but perhaps at 22 years of age or even earlier. I really hope that you may have picked something out of this that is useful, even from what my colleagues have said before me, that we can take this country on a better path, because it seems to me that just and only politicisation will not lead us to the goal we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Bojan Podkoršek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Re-welcome colleagues and colleagues! I might start by telling you what my colleagues and I have talked a little more privately today. I think that this government is very fortunate, that the opposition is also very in-depth and professionally working, working, working and lucky, especially citizens and citizens, that today we can also discuss this openly. The fact is, you've prepared this plan in a rather serious secret. I will read you some of the statements we made at the online consultation organised by the Social Democrats. For example, the director of the umbrella network of Slovenian NGOs says that NGOs or civil society have not been included in the preparation of the government document so far. You are happy to commend yourself for your dialogue with the congregations. Mayor Murska Sobota says that the dialogue of the municipality with Vlado sees it as one-way. That also sounds very familiar. One-way dialogues are one-way cooperation. Then you have the outgoing Director General of the Chamber of Commerce, who says that only now that the government draft is publicly open can a quality public debate begin. So I would basically like to thank the opposition for being so proactive and that she has prepared one great document, which we cannot possibly take as a pear document, because if you read it in detail, you will see that it is essentially the result of a professional work, that there are in particular 218 projects that will generate multiplier effects on our society. Above all, this is some basis on which we should begin. This is some basis, this is some kind of deadline offered to the government so that we can actually come up with one document that will really have long-term effects on our society as a whole. We can't build without foundations. And the basis is some general consensus, some general consensus as to what kind of society we want for the future. This society of the future, respected Minister, cannot be an aspect of Slovenia by just one political party. This society must be a society on which everyone has the right to express his or her opinion. This must be a society in which knowledge will also be truly appreciated and in which we can contribute in our own way. The way you started it, I'm sorry, but it wasn't like that. So I think you can really thank the opposition, that it worked so proactively, that it's still working, that it's trying in various ways to present its proposals and that we're somehow appealing to the performance on the other hand. I think that's the key. You can't take such matters in secret. I can also list some projects for you, given that we have heard that the discussions are too general and are not specific. For example, we are talking about an urgent increase in public health capacity. If this health crisis has revealed anything, it has revealed the catastrophic state of our health. We're talking about long-term care, we're talking about a real green transition, we're not talking about concrete, we're talking about real digitisation, we're talking about financial strengthening of the public health system, and so on. Above all, we say that such decisions must be made on the basis of a truly broad consensus. So I hope that this debate today is a step forward for the European Commission to present concrete excellent projects that will generate positive effects for our craftsmen after a certain period of time, because we really need an additional debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u127	The initiative on cooperation by the Prime Minister Janez Janša has been on the table for some time now. It's up to you whether you sign it or not. Your former President Borut Pahor signed it, and that was when he was paid in 2008 in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Runczek's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u129	I'll probably have to do it a hundred more times. We have a permanent offer of cooperation between the government, any government and the National Assembly. It's called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There's no need to sign anything. However, if it is necessary to change anything in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in this relationship, which is basically a relationship of submission, the Government is in line with the provisions of Article 110 of the Constitution, this is done on the Rules of Procedure Commission, which, as a former colleague, knows very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Meira Hot also wanted Replo to respond to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u131	One more time. Cooperation is a two-way street. Cooperation doesn't mean you're invited, and whatever we tell you, it doesn't sound like it. We have been making various proposals to the PKP for a year, and I do not know how many amendments this opposition has tabled, and we have never heard of it. Cooperation will only take place when we are actually heard on the other side. Cooperation is not a one-way street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Get ready, mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u133	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister with both Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about a very important topic, even a challenging one. Let me remind you, yesterday we were talking about housing law in this National Assembly. We have all come to realize that for 12 years there has been little fighting in that area. But we heard this mainly from the left side of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we had very little chance in 12 years to influence what I mentioned on the housing law. When we talk about money, we must be aware that this is from our people for our people, especially those who pay taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have also heard of a very large amount of unpaid taxes in this country. Of course, I must admit that there will be plenty of time in my eyes as well as many Slovenians and Slovenians. When we are also talking about the drawback of funds, we must be aware that our past is very ployed here. Let me remind you of the last mandate, the mandate of the previous government, with us is our fellow Member Marko Bandelli, who, in my opinion, was a good Minister of Cohesion at the time, but the then Prime Minister decided that he could no longer perform this work. I have to admit, I was sorry about that. Today, we also see the current leadership of this ministry as well as what should be left behind with some things. What happened to our colleague Mark Bandell. We're looking for the Iztok Purič, and he's backing out, and then we're going to import. The import of a new minister lasted for several weeks, at one of the most important ministries in the government. I want to say that when we talk about cohesion, when we talk about how to bring money from Brussels to Slovenia, we need a solid road and, above all, institutions in Slovenia that are capable of bringing this money into investment. We've missed a lot here in the past. I am personally pleased that Minister Zvone Černač first vented the building in which this ministry added fresh power. They look forward to the information and documents that the Minister and his team present as our bright future. In this segment it is very difficult to move switches from zero to zero, because this is not possible in one month, one year, but it is a long-term period that we have missed in the past. I want the minister and his team on this path to insist. I see the odds that we'll have new hospitals, nursing homes, even roads. Some of you mentioned today that we talk too much about concrete. But as I said in the beginning, this money comes from people and let it go to people for their better services. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Given that the list of debaters is changing rapidly, I will read the rest. I let Mr. Jožet Lenart go by mistake before, for which I apologize, the next word will be given to him. And then there's Mr. Bandelli, and there's the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Given that it is a shorter time, I will try to narrow my debate down to three points, and this little introduction more specifically then on two occasions. National plan to draw funds from the Recovery and Resistance Fund. Two words that actually say everything about today's crisis, where we are, recovery and then resistance in the long run to put things in such a way that our craftsmen can also live normally. Priorities have been set for this breakthrough, reforms to address problems. For Slovenia, population ageing is expected to be at the forefront. The priorities for the European Union's transition to climate neutrality are based on this green policy by preserving the existence of life for future generations in order to prevent natural disasters that are increasingly a threat to us. On the other hand, digitalisation, which I see as an increase in productivity in all areas, not just the economy, including agriculture, health, education and the whole of public administration, is all well connected. I would add the following, which is also a priority for LMSH. This is an important investment in development. Here I see the professions of the future and, above all, the inclusion of young people. I think we're somewhat less capable of older generations, but young people can add a lot to this. I see a key solution in how to keep young people from taking up their jobs at home in Slovenia, so that they do not leave to create added value in the developed countries. I am convinced that all attention should be paid to raising productivity based on young people, including as a counterweight to the ageing of society, because Slovenia has the biggest problems in the European Union. Do we even understand that by keeping young people at home and bringing them into the labour market as soon as possible, we will achieve a number of objectives, particularly in demobilising the demographic fund, increasing productivity in all areas, everything we have talked about most in recent days. So let's start with accessibility to rent-making, non-profit housing, better access to youth housing, increased development and research resources, higher value-added technological areas. See, for the third decade, I have been following Ireland, which has achieved a real breakthrough in development during this time and is now second in the European Union to GDP. Young people from all over the world come to this breakthrough country, gather knowledge and also return to their environment. It is up to us whether we will be able to provide them with the right environment to create and involve them in the creation of the home. They can do much to help us with their experiences that they have accumulated outside, only to allow them to create. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the domestic problems, or better said opportunities, which we must certainly realize with the financial resources of the recovery and resilience mechanisms now available to us. I am following the decade of our resolution, the action plans, the political commitments of all governments so far in the last 20 years. Unfortunately, some problems are even greater today. I wonder where this problem is, why we don't know, if I say so, on the path of Ireland, which was able to make a very good use of this area and is on top of it today. Slovenia has natural wealth, these are forests, quality wood, which we have neglected after independence and lost as many as 20,000 jobs in the woodworking industry. The calculations show that 15 billion added value has been lost at this time. As the third richest country in Europe, of course, the real disaster is that we missed this opportunity and lost a number of companies in this area, including four invert panels, which create the highest added value in the wood industry. Today we no longer have any of these factories, with such rich wood mass. Wood construction is part of sustainable development, a sustainable stay offered by nature. I therefore expect rapid measures to stop exports of wood raw materials to neighbouring countries and to provide jobs in this area. We already have some good practices that clearly show us that this is an opportunity on the way to development and the path to green technology. It must not happen to build a sports hall in wood, with 90% of wooden construction elements being imported from Austria. This reminds me of those 50s after World War II, when we didn't have these factories. Another area that's very important. I expect concrete solutions in the field of digitisation of Slovenian health care to save them from the spa, to enable us to review the functioning of health care for successful management, to increase productivity while improving the utilisation of both human resources and the capacity of the necessary equipment. Indeed, there is enough monitoring and listening to the increase in waiting times in all areas and, on the other hand, we hear from the media that we are unable to provide personnel with modern equipment to manage that we do not know how to replace, to obtain emergency equipment to provide emergency inspections for rapid and safe diagnosis. In both cases, the medical team then travels patients to other centres where waiting types are unnecessarily created and time is lost for both healthcare professionals and patients. These are the areas that I think are most important. That's what we're trying to do, and I want this to happen. If it's not your government, it'll be another government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Marko Bandelli, and then it's like the last mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u137	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, Minister, nice greeting! I can tell you who else can understand the position you have at this point, the difficult position and many are unaware of what it is. I'm going to say one thing that I've been saying all along, even since the Ministry itself, this type of ministry can't work like this. We've said that many times because you're limited because I've been limited. Because all the assigned jobs are around and around and you're totally dependent on other departments if you even want to get to one goal. It is said that this should be completely reorganised as a ministry and given power, if you say so, power. We are now talking about one national recovery and resilience plan. What is this plan? I fully understand the rejection of your coalition of all our perceptions, of our visions, which is perfectly normal. It is normal for them to defend their minister to defend the program, even though I believe none of them have read it. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, what could it be, those main points, is that he could then discuss it. But, you know, the material is very extensive. It is so extensive that one could say that they have made such extensive material that no one will understand anything. That's one technique, too. But I don't see anything wrong, Minister, because you've already mentioned three times, and your colleagues have also mentioned that we have a debate on this subject here. I understand you, twice, three times even, that you're very sorry this thing came into the media. So how can you regret not having this matter dealt with in here? We're not going to solve anything, you know, because this thing is going to the government, and the government is going to confirm it. Then he goes to Brussels and then that's it. But at least here we say what we think. My thinking is that this plan that you've drawn up is wrong because it's not about the goals that he's intended to achieve. Europe wants another. I'd understand if we were talking about VFOs. And I would understand that we've been beaten in the new VFO and we know exactly why. For the regions, for the things and everything that it is. That's second, second debate, I'm not interested in talking about it here. Here, however, is one project for recovery and resilience in view of the situation we have been in for a year. That's why there's this fund, if you say so. And what follows with this plan is not that. I'm sorry. Let's be clear, I have nothing against your function, because here is the broader issue that was behind it. But I want you to understand that this thing is missing. The main points of why we're here. I don't even have time to talk about it right now. Then I will conclude with an opinion, because I have 15 minutes to propose, and I will finally give my final reflection on the whole project. But what I wanted to say is that certain things are in there that don't belong entirely to anything in the transition to sustainable and green. You put in certain projects, certain things that are absurd, totally absurd. Not to mention the airline we're talking about. Thank God you calmed me down earlier when you said it probably wouldn't work. But it's inside, you know, it's inside on the 45th side of the pawn here, a tabular or, as you call it here, Annex 2 — milestones and goals. And even before we talked about the roads. It's not true there's no roads. There are regional roads, there is a whole range of regional roads that need to be built. Is this a green switch? Is that meant like green? But you know you've done a sustainable renovation of buildings, 91 million grants, 606 million repayments. I'm happy to renovate and practically make houses cost-effective. But it's not a transition to green. There's nothing to do in there. And we're talking 700 million - 15%. That's the problem. There are many other problems, and I am sorry that I cannot say another thing, but it is difficult to express my thoughts quickly. I'll be in the end, President. I'll be given another chance to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister, Mr. Chernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u139	Look, Ambassador Bandelli, you misunderstood me. I have no problem with the debate in Parliament. The place of discussion is here in this house, it's wrong when the debate moves to the street or outside this house. So every debate here is good and welcome. As far as the organisation of SVRK is concerned – do you know who set up the organization we have now? Your President, when she was Prime Minister at the beginning of 2014. Otherwise, if we want to carry out effectively what is ahead of us, of course, such organization does not drink water. There are only two options: whether it is part of one of the existing ministries or whether it becomes a single ministry joining it in regional development, which is now part of the MGRT, or a local self-government with the MJU. It will be necessary to continue to think in this direction if we are to implement effectively everything ahead of us. But the scheme, as it is today, was put in place by the decree of Mrs Alenka Bratušek in February 2014, when she was Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u140	Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Runczek's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u142	Now let's stop fooling around. Any government, when it burns, can set up the organization it wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The last debater is a mag. Marco Pogačnik. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for the floor. See, I have already mentioned in the introduction, and I am still convinced that the Recovery and Resistance Fund is probably one of the most important documents and the most important agreement in the history of the European Union. I am confident that EUR 5.2 billion, which is available to Slovenia, is a historic opportunity for Slovenia not to have such opportunities anymore and that this opportunity must be taken advantage of. I am sure that the government of Janez Janša, the coalition and Minister Zvona Černač are working with the team in the right direction. I also welcome today's debate and the convening of an extraordinary meeting on the opposition's proposal. These documents should be discussed. We have also discussed these documents at a closed meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee at the end of January. Approximately four-hour debate developed in the right direction, proposals from one party, proposals from the other. But I have a very important problem with the opposition today. It is that the opposition has taken this document as final. Most of the debate from your point of view was that this was already the final document, as if it was already in Brussels, that the European Commission had already addressed it. Maybe some individual doesn't. But look, one of the proponents, Dr. Duck, you must have been a mentor for some college girl, a student. I'm sure this student or student didn't bring you a diploma and go on defense. Dr. Trček, I'm sure that your doctorate, which was reportedly chosen for the best in that year in 2001, did not bring before your mentor in the final version, but they were draft documents, drafts that change, which take shape. And I am sure that the key issue in the draft is that you have someone who guides you through this document, and that this is the European Commission, which guides someone, how to prepare this document better, better quality, and should actually be the goal of everyone. I welcome this initiative or the request for a meeting. An open debate is needed. I am sure that the Slovenian Parliament is working in a positive direction here. As I have already mentioned, most of the national parliaments of the European Union do not deal with this programme, which is within the governments' 100 per cent competence. But no, there is a document to be made here that will have multiple effects on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and which will be good. 5.2 billion, this is a historic opportunity for Slovenia and it needs to be exploited. And I really don't expect the opposition in this direction to just attack. However, I cannot ignore the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent this document to the National Assembly in December 2020. By 28 January, no one had looked at this document by the opposition. At that time, however, you requested that this meeting be opened to the public by the EU, which was convened. I think we need to be right here, fair to one other thing. Look, this is about Slovenia, and I'm sure the path that the government has chosen in preparing this document is the right one. The government has also withdrawn the degree of independence, the opening. I am sure that all good suggestions will be taken into account. And I am also sure that no part of Slovenia will be forgotten about these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Trcek, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u146	Yeah, I'm gonna burn my proposing time so the former minister can finally talk to the minister. Now, about the truth. This is the third version of the document I've read. I also read the first two versions of the document before he got to the byte before Christmas. So don't tell me we haven't read the case. There are probably fewer of us in Parliament who have read this. I don't even know if the minister has time to read it. Maybe, the secretary of state must have read it, and I wouldn't have hoped to release such a document from the Ministry. I agree with Mark and Tinker Bell. There was no debate today. Marko says any good proposal will be taken into account. 218 proposals we have proposed, we have not come to this at all. I've stuck myself back today to make some principle that there won't be again, czech, czech something blowing forward, professor up, down. As far as my doctorate is concerned, there were 29 different available. The Academy of Mlinar is like a Jesuit college. I put that drill across. Today we may have come to the conclusion that the next government, which will be different in its composition and which will have to deal with this living document, which I have repeatedly mentioned, needs some serious Ministry of Development and Cohesion. Not some no-leaf thing. I would personally merge the MGRT, this local would draw from the MJU and along with the SVRK. Personally, I think that the government would need two vice-presidents or a vice-president, not a party president who would be up and down. One should be for EU affairs; the other should be for this development aspect. That's what we'd need. Today's story went the way it went. There was no debate. Let's be honest. The only one who gave you a bit of a heads-up, but you had about half the time, was Beznik. And my colleague Moškrič also said some good things and some of us. This is also because these documents have not been read. You said, uh, it's for one piece of shit, I'll say at home what you suggested, and we can't do that at all. And that's basically insulting to me as a proponent because I've actually read all these salads three times. And I'd rather read some books in between. You know, that's not how this is gonna work. I don't know what. I'm not Janša, and I don't have a clinic I don't know where. But you're not capable of cooperating. There's no cooperation, we're the only ones right, and you're all not sure what. Wake up to the welfare of our children and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Government's representative and the proposers are given the floor. First of all, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u148	Given that I have only three minutes of time, the government has declared the maximum time that Parliament has allowed me to conclude with just a few highlights. I must say, however, that there have been some substantive proposals on the part of the various parliamentary groups. These proposals, which have been tabled today, and what has been transmitted in writing and is good and is in the interest of the people, as I said in the introductions, will be fully taken into account in the finalisation of this plan. Our common goal is to draw up, after the end of this process, where we are now in the final round, a substantively consistent and administratively flawless plan which will eventually be endorsed by the European Commission and which will allow, on the one hand, both the drawdown of these funds and the implementation of all the necessary reforms that are the basis for this pumping. It is undeniable that this plan will take account of the maximum formally identified, which is approximately 60% of this Green and Digital Plan, if I simplify it, and 40% of the remaining areas that we have highlighted today: health, social protection, long-term care, housing, youth policy, infrastructure, mobility and so on. Given that the volume of funds, in particular grants, is limited to EUR billion and EUR 600 million, which is not an impressive amount when compared with all the other grants that we will have available by the end of 2029, it is clear that everything we intend to do will have to be combined with different sources. And that's what we're gonna do. That's what I said in the first place. What is good in this next perspective, or by the end of the 2026-2029 period, is that in this perspective Slovenia receives some additional funds mainly in the Eastern Cohesion Region area of the Fair Transition Fund, which will provide an additional opportunity to refer all those investments that cannot be closed only through this RRF framework. Of course, we will be very careful in our debt. I think that the period currently in place will not last forever, so this framework must be restrictive, realistic as far as possible, and it will certainly have to be combined in the execution of individual projects with private capital. It will need to be activated in nursing hospitals and in many other areas. This is nothing bad, but it just means added value, that what Slovenia has been fed in the last ten years, we will make up for it in the shortest possible time. It is certainly not just about infrastructure, it is also about supporting services. And here I think that the biggest part that awaits us is because these services will not come from themselves, but this is some process that needs to be started through reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now you'll get the word of both candidates who have time left. First of all, Mr. Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Let's get this over with. Mark internally, look, we're not gonna talk about this anymore, this has been said a lot. You were also talking about some damage that was supposed to occur, and I didn't hear what the damage was. It is also clear that there has been a publication of a violation of the Secret Data Act. And that's a fact. But it's also a fact that you've been hiding the matter all along. Why? Because you don't want to deal with criticism. Dear Vice-President, I see this time running away from the parliamentary group, so I don't know. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, 'cause I got, uh, okay, one more minute. Good. Because the government can't deal with criticism, not with suggestions. I don't know. Maybe it'd be better if we didn't put this in the public eye. But, well, I think that the debate at one stage was still substantive and correct, on the other hand politicised, not least Parliament, where such a debate is, of course, possible. But as I mentioned earlier, it wasn't a wish or a goal. When you talk about cooperation, you know, Minister, cooperation is a very relative form. You can cooperate by showing you something and saying you've been familiar with it, but you can work together by submitting content suggestions and taking them into account. In LMŠ, we believe that this connection to pillars should be greater, with a clear objective of green and digital. So the plan, which includes its own resources, other European financial instruments, and a plan that can eventually go beyond the value of ten billion, which represents a very busy set of money for Slovenia and means a development that we have never seen before. I expect a complementary plan, but given the ignorance we've witnessed so far, the ultimate guilt will only be on your side. I can only conclude here: happy Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u151	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, Mr. Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President, again, for your word. Dear Minister, the Black Bell! I will conclude today's debate with this concluding reflection. I think that, after the entire debate we have had, it is clear to you, and also to the citizens, I think that the picture is very clear that these resources we have at our disposal are important. Take all that I'm going to tell you as a positive and constructive criticism. Our concerns are expressed in a document that is truly extensive, with thousands of pages, but if it does not follow the objectives and guidelines dictated by Europe, all the written pages are irrelevant. As we have heard, precisely because of inadequate vision, inadequate guidance and inadequate policies, the document has already been criticised. I will not say that there is too much asphalt in your plan, I will mention that the whole plan is too ambitious, under-emphasizes strategic and technological development, is not green, and is particularly under-sustainable. If I start from the end. As for all other countries, it is Slovenia's task to prepare or submit its own recovery and resilience plan by 30 April. True, you have prepared it, but it is prepared in a way which, according to the SAB, does not follow the basic guidelines. The basic guidelines are to face and bridge the economic, social, environmental and health crisis. We have a huge amount of resources available for our country – €5.2 billion, partly in return and in part in grants, which we do not seem to be using for the purposes, but in particular not to achieve the intended objectives, the objectives dictated to us by the European Union. Our doubts are even worse, Your Honor. We're afraid we won't spend it at all. In your document or plan, in a table check, there's a lot of confusion. There is a lot of written, undefined, superficial and questionable. The most important points in this recovery and resistance plan are intended for completely different purposes. The most important points in this plan are to build a sustainable future. As proposed by the Nex Generation of the EU, it is only possible to leave the development model that has caused the economic, social, environmental and health crises. In particular, this means guiding productive foundations by ensuring social justice and environmental sustainability. It's just that it's irrelevant and unnecessary. Agreed objectives and measures are needed. Dear Minister, despite your seemingly convincing rhetoric, unfortunately your national plan persists on the basis of the wrong recipes, which are contrary to the requirements that should be directed towards the necessary investments and to some new economic model. Europe, a true Europe, not a multi-urban Europe, Mr Minister, understands that natural resources are in the final phase, such as continuing theories that the priorities are endless economic growth, when we well know that basic and natural raw materials are critical, completely unrealistic and ineffective. Similarly, those who think that only economic growth is an inevitable reason to create employment and prosperity, which is scientifically wrong. As was the misdemeanour and hypocrisy of those who did not understand that the reallocation of wealth and work was urgently needed during the decade of growth and development. Let's definitely leave this direction and focus on your plan. I'll tell you again, the plan is wrong. The plan does not take into account the guidelines and is under-ambitious, under-sustaining in mobility and digitisation in certain steps. What we see in the SAB is that there is too little emphasis on health care and investment in value chains. In your plan, I didn't see any investment in energy and renewables. Yes, it is, because you predicted something, 15 million grants and 100 million repayments, but only for the economy. Where's the national plan? Where is the alternative resource development strategy? Where are the subsidies for investments in individual construction? I'm sorry I didn't see any specifics. As far as reducing air pollution is concerned, you pay great attention to roads and less to rail infrastructure. Let me just remind you that neighbouring Italy has devoted as much as 15% of the value of the national plan to sustainable mobility, and we are barely 3.5%. Repeat, 3.5%. Most of that money was spent on high-speed railways. You know that for yourself. Where are we with the railroads? Before the war. And we're looking for each other when we have a couple of miles of track to rebuild. According to your plan, however, there is a great deal of funding for roads, but in our view, resources for this purpose should be exclusive from the integrated budget. Minister, today is one year since this pandemic hugged us, but we haven't learned anything. What were the needs? What was the main drawback during this period? What were the key problems? Do you think that health care has bridged the crisis by stopping public life? Is it not one of the objectives of the Next Generation of the EU that with the money we will have at our disposal we must build as many such facilities as possible that will provide us with and provide us with universal self-sustainment? I'm talking about basic goods, I'm talking about health, I'm talking about technology, I'm talking about advanced innovative equipment, and I'm talking about industry 4.0. I'm sure you understand, Minister, I'm sure you understand what I'm saying. You are a government representative, you have the power, not just to talk about sustainable development, about transition, about green economy, about universal inclusion, if all of these concepts are not meant to accompany concrete goals, interventions, resources, effective strategies and consistent actions. In one of your interviews, you boasted that you had coordinated the plan with more than two thousand participants. Where are they? Who are they? The municipalities. The municipalities only want money for infrastructure. Companies demand money for fixed assets and people simply demand work. Right. I agree. Only in the first two points is this not the right way, Minister, to achieve a sustainable objective. This is not the way to achieve the objectives and objectives of the capital offered to us, which we have in hand for economic conversion. I hope you understand what I'm saying. Let me conclude, Minister Zvona Cernač, with the desire to at least open your eyes a little. We believe that this plan of yours is not in line with Europe's requirements, it is not in line with sustainable policy, it is not in line with the citizens' wish to finally change the guidelines of this path, which leads to innovative growth and development, which does not lead to sustainable prosperity, but into a temporary solution and consequently into economic stagnation. The proposed plan does not follow European economic policy, does not deal with structural interventions, does not promote innovation, do not offer concrete assistance to prospective companies. Just pointing out what the goal would be, without any solutions, is a sign of incompetence, incompetence and incompetence. It is a sign of a complete lack of political vision and intention to direct the country towards a just, fair and sustainable horizon through social mobilisation. All of this, the distinguished minister, indicates a void that unrelentingly photographes the total failure of the current politically ruling garrison. I'm sorry, Minister, that's all. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u153	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has remained, I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so let me just point out that, if both the proponents and the Minister wish to discuss the rights, they must so sign up for the debate. Now I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have six interviewees reported. Everyone has two minutes and 21 seconds. The first one gets the word, Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u154	Thank you very much. My colleague Bandelli, my colleague Trček, my colleague Sukič and myself as the proponents of this proposal for a national plan, we have made clear the proposals and objectives where Slovenia should go in the future. I really hope that it is clear what a difficult path is ahead of us that the crisis, attention!, an economic crisis that has not yet begun and which outcome will be extremely important, will allow this plan to come out of this crisis quite well and we will be ready for the next, or we will fall behind and therefore pay a costly price. And the key part to this is the guidelines presented in the European Commission's proposal and which our country must follow. Minister, you've been talking before about how you provided medical personnel records. That's certainly good, but let's be honest, these people won't be employed for another ten years. Why, though, was there not enough medical personnel during the crisis, even though we could not have known that she would come? Yes, because of Zuyf, because all of what Janša’s government has done in recent years has not been perfected because the law has been blocked. And these are the key problems when one mistake in the past can cost you something in the future and I hope that we have learned to this day. That is why such proposals and some positive criticism to this plan of yours, which has so far been at least a part of the general public, have unfortunately been hidden, and I hope that we can go with the goal of a new future, some better future that is developed and views life as something where it can draw from knowledge where it can draw development where it can draw on the future. And that's what we need in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has the following word, Mr Jožef Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u156	Good evening to all. We were running out of time before, so I volunteered for this division. This time does not allow for some in-depth debate, but only some political reflection. Minister, you said this document wasn't historical, while your client's colleague is mag. The cook said it was a historical document. Here I share an opinion with, unfortunately, my fellow Member. Each such document is historical, has been past and will be future. It is precisely because this document you have prepared is so important for the coming years that such discussions are still necessary in the National Assembly. Everything we have prepared in the opposition must not be taken by the government and in the coalition as an attack by the opposition against the coalition. I believe that even you, when you were a member of the opposition, had most of your performances in the way of attacking our government at the time, but let us learn that we in the opposition are cooperative. In view of the debate, including yours today, I believe that even if you have not admitted today that there is much good in this document, I hope that you will also draw on what is good with the help of the Secretary of State in this document. After all, the final document adopted by the government is very important for the coming years. I believe that the Social Democrats, along with the entire opposition, are also so capable in your eyes that you will copy a project. We must all be aware that no one has eaten all the knowledge in this world, not you, not us. Together, we can do more than we can imagine. And for the end of agreements signed or not signed. If we have come so far in this policy, then we can all be ashamed because if we had a signed agreement with you, we would probably take this document more seriously. Let us be realistic and be more serious about such important and strategic documents. Not just on the basis of some political agreements.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart has the following word, Mr Leon Merjasec is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present, distinguished minister! On the table, we have a recommendation from the opposition for a national recovery and resistance plan, which is of course an important document, as European funds will be shared. Somehow today, more than this plan, we have listened to a lot of evidence in the opposition's proposals at the expense of the prepared recovery and resistance plan actually submitted by the government and the ministry, namely that the opposition has not been involved, and that the document's secrecy, as Levica and her Mr Mesec say, is not following the EU's guidelines on smart digital circular transition, and too little funding is planned for health and too much for roads. And the roads, I hear, are a kind of development! Aren't they? I don't know why the third development axis would say development axis. For certain parts of our country, roads are still extremely important for connecting and developing and for cities and municipalities to develop better. The proposal also highlighted some national plans for the resilience and recovery of other Member States, such as Portugal, Spain, Greece, which are expected to be even better, more transparent than Slovenia. But all these three countries I think have been extremely successful in drawing on European funds when we actually had to save them from bankruptcy. These financial crises have taken place for these countries from 2011 to 2014. If we're gonna have to play them hard right now, then I don't know where we're gonna get them. The national recovery and resilience plan of the Republic of Slovenia will include key strategic state projects, while other local community projects are financed from other sources, sometimes from European ones. But this government and the minister are actually preparing a good strategy for the development of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Leon Merjasec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister, secretary! Today, much has been said about this national recovery plan. However, much has already been said on the European Union Affairs Committee itself, where the Minister was transparent with the presentation of the plan, and a plan of two thousand participants from the economy, municipalities and NGOs was also presented. Let's keep going. The recovery plan focused on investing in health care, long-term care and key public infrastructure, especially for the Maribor infectory clinics, Ljubljana, emergency medical care, regional hospitals, nursing homes, rehabilitation and construction of new ones and, of course, new jobs in DSOs. In addition, these measures will also aim at long-term sustainable growth in the economy and employment, with a view to reducing greenhouse gases, for rail transport. All these measures are important for Slovenia and are a real opportunity for recovery and resilience, so I would like to thank the Minister and his team for preparing this plan, as these 2.5 billion euros will be dedicated to the people's recovery and resilience plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u161	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, introducing some powerpoint over Zoom isn't the same as having the chance to read that spy Marko and I read. Since I have read the third variant of this, I must say that the improvements between the options did not take place to the extent I expected. Secondly, of course, it was not the SDS itself, the SVRK itself, but the whole range of ministries involved. It was even announced that a number of people from the government would be present, but apart from the SVRK team there were no. What's the problem with this plan, my friend Marko said very well. So we agreed, this time I was bad cop, he was good cop. And I'm gonna repeat what I said at the beginning. This is our homework, not the job we have to do to the European Commission, but the EU. The pandemic has kicked us in the ass that we must urgently go into some reforms that are not being done here in the right way. Today, I ended up essentially with the paraphrasing of the most famous book by Karl Popper, the Open Society and her enemies. I am sorry that this opportunity to discuss today, which was unfortunately not, has shown which one of us is for an open society – the Social Democrats, our fellow signatories – and who is more an enemy of this open society, who doesn't even have enough basic manners to read what we are proposing. And then they're talking about some cooperation, and they're beating it in the middle. And I don't even watch what's written on Facebook right now, unlike my colleagues probably from SDS. You probably need more than we are proposing a few reflections on basic political sobriety, because this is our shared responsibility. This responsibility has been given to us by our craftsmen, and today it has been a disgrace, not a debate. Shame on you to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-04-SDZ8-Izredna-64.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good evening, everyone!
