ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Dušan Verbich, Igor Pecek, mag. Branislav Rajić by 16:00 and mag. Alenka Bratusek. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, on the 19th item of the agenda, the Minister of the Environment and the Magi area. Mr Andrej Visiak on the 20th item of the agenda, Prime Minister Janez Janša on the 21st item of the agenda, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and candidate for the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of Mags. Maja Bilbi to the 22nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 6 December 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. Members of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab Group propose that the draft Act supplementing the Fiscal Rule Act be withdrawn from the agenda of the 28th meeting. You received a motion for withdrawal on Friday, 10 December 2021. Does the representative of the proposer want to explain the motion for withdrawal? I guess not. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. Would you like a word from the government? He's not here. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the third item from the agenda of the 28th meeting. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for the withdrawal of the point has been adopted. The SNS Parliamentary Group proposed to the National Assembly that agenda 28 should be withdrawn from the agenda of the 28th meeting, i.e. the proposal for a Waste Management Act, the second consideration, but the proposal for withdrawal was withdrawn on 10 December 2021. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 122nd meeting, on 1 December 2021, that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Promotion Act should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 43 Members and Members of the First-signed Mate T. Vatovci requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are therefore going to consider the requirement that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Promotion Act on an urgent basis. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act shall be considered on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 38. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the assembly will therefore, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, consider that proposal for a law in accordance with the urgency procedure, on Thursday, 16. 12. 2021. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We move on to the 21st item of the agenda – Defence of the demands of the Group of Members and Members of the State to decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose an additional measure to prevent proliferation, OMILITIES, MANAGEMENT, RESTRUCTION AND EMPLOYMENT OF THE Follow-up OF COVIDA-19 is being debated on an urgent procedure. At its 122nd meeting, on 1 December 2021, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and remedying the consequences of covid-19 should be considered following an urgent procedure. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are therefore going to consider this requirement. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on additional measures to prevent the spread, relief, control, recovery and recovery of covida-19 shall be considered under the urgent procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 38. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written submissions from 31 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, in accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow, 14 December 2021, to the members of the opposition and to the question of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that the reply of the Minister or Minister be discussed at the next meeting. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. I would then like to remind you in particular that such a proposal should be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister or Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Marjan Dikaucič, Minister of Justice, Dr Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration, and Dr Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. In accordance with Rule 274 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Defense of Magi. Matthew Tonin will answer Violeta Tomić's question about the role of the Slovenian Army in laying crowns for collaborators with a Nazi invader on the Day of Remembrance of the Dead in the Bahamas. I'm guessing there's no minister. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Your Honor, there's no minister for the second time. And, as I can see, he didn't apologize for his absence from this meeting of the National Assembly. He's had my question for a month. You could have prepared for him and come to answer, but he didn't. That is why I propose that you suspend the meeting, given that we have an unjustified absence of the Minister here, and that you ensure his presence so that he can finally answer a question that I think is very important at the next meeting, at the second session, for the second time. My procedural proposal is to stop and find the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will not stop its work because of the missing minister. But I agree with you that there is no excuse. I understand your procedural proposal as a request for an oral answer to this question at the next meeting. Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Defence Mag. Matthew Tonin, if he were here, will answer Sam Bevek's question about international assistance in providing hospital capacity for covid patients in Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Just Bevk! Allow me once again to thank you for your understanding, because I was absent from the previous meeting due to the epidemiological situation and related activities or activities we had in Slovenian health care. As for the load at the top of the fourth wave in Slovenian hospitals, it is important to say that today we are much lower than we were, today we have occupied 236 units of intensive therapy. At the top we had 291 units of intensive therapy occupied. In recent times, depending on the size or extent of the epidemiological situation in Slovenia, the question has always been how many observant patients we are able to treat in Slovenia. Therefore, there have also been several discussions on when and how to move patients with covid-19 abroad, if necessary. The Ministry of Health is concerned about ensuring that every citizen is treated against covid-19 and has contacted the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Austria, Italy, Germany. Let me say that it has been an extremely correct, constructive response and at the same time thank you for all the assistance we have received in those days. The aim was to establish appropriate links with the competent health institutions in those countries, where, if necessary, patients with covido-19 disease would be referred. It was a framework discussion, because in these days, as you know, all Europe is facing a difficult epidemiological picture and a lot of countries are facing a worse epidemic situation than Slovenia. When we talk about transferring patients, an important factor is the health condition of an individual patient, which could possibly need to be moved abroad, as this could pose a risk factor that could affect the deterioration of the health condition or even a poor outcome of treatment. Therefore, such decisions on possible relocation, if necessary, are, of course, exclusively in the hands of the healthcare profession. According to available data in connection with the transfer of patients within the country who suffer from covido-19, this is done only to a limited extent where this is necessary in terms of the provision of adequate capacity in the individual statistical region. Thus, at the Ministry of Health for possible cooperation and the transfer of patients abroad, we have also established an appropriate protocol based on expert points for the transfer of patients to treatment abroad. The coordinators of Slovenian hospitals were also appointed, who, if needed to move patients abroad, would have the communication and all professional powers to communicate and carry out possible transfers to the treatment of patients abroad. In order not to be too long, let me conclude that moving patients with covid abroad due to excessive capacity in intensive treatment units would only be a last resort. As you know, we have done everything we can to ensure that all the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia are properly treated in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank Minister Poklukar for his reply. I asked the original question a month ago at the November session. During this time many things have happened, Mr Poklukar, in early November, you said that you were committed to decisive action and that between 160 and 180 intensive beds would be occupied with the very sick to propose at least a partial closure of the country - so you thought at the time - and that, of course, assistance would be needed from abroad. In intensive care units where patients are most severely ill, one nurse would be required for each patient and in a hospital in Murska Sobota in mid-November, two nurses would cover seven patients. Would it not be reasonable to activate or request assistance from the European Civil Protection Mechanism at that time in order to relieve health workers? And there's something else about this activation of Role 2 Hospital, which I've been asking myself about. According to experts, 95 % depends on civilian personnel, contractors working in other Slovenian hospitals. If we called these contractors, then the other hospitals wouldn't have enough personnel. And at the end of the question, Mr. Minister, because the epidemic is now dying, I am interested in: Will any covid hospital, such as UKC Maribor, be closed so that they can finally start implementing other programs that are now standing and gathering unreasonable long waiting periods? However, I ask Minister Tonin to give me in writing the answers that I have set up at the November meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Bevk, thank you very much for these additional questions. It is true that at the time of the outbreak within the hospitals, we moved the circus to two thousand and 200 health workers, then an additional hundred, a few hundred from health care homes and a few hundred from other health care providers. So I would like to thank all the health workers in this place once again sincerely for all the effort and effort they have made to make the fourth wave. When we talk about intensive therapy units, over 800 health workers have been transferred to intensive treatment units, according to obituary departments. At the national level, the standard in intensive therapy units was between 1.8 and 1.9 nurses per hospital bed in normal wards and 1.2 nurses per hospital bed. As far as the Role 2 military hospital is concerned, your findings need to be confirmed that it is an excellent and necessary infrastructure that we have in Slovenia, but it is true that the strategy so far was based on the fact that healthcare workers are activated, that the Slovenian Army also has its health workers and they have been actively involved in the control of the epidemic during the fourth wave and are also working on the staff of the medical department, but to the fullest extent I know they would also need reserve or healthcare professionals. So this is true, and in the future it may also be a slightly different way or a different way at this level. But it's a national approach and I can't give you a final answer here. As regards the closure of the hospital cod in these days, the numbers are fortunately improving according to the epidemiological picture, but let me point out that yesterday's reduction in the number compared to last week is significantly lower than before. I am afraid that again on better results and the recent follow-up of events in society that are not crucial for the control of the epidemic, there has been some degree of relativisation of epidemic control measures, and this may result in a lower rate of infection decline. Therefore, once again, my call to all to implement measures and proceed to vaccination. In view of the above, it is true that we are reducing the capacity in hospitals, that we will return to health care homes and to other operators who have been transferred to hospitals this week, in order to gradually release or close obvious departments and open classical departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Janez Poklukar will answer the question of mag. Branislav Rajić related to the amendment of the Law on Pharmacy. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Branislav Rajić! I'm sorry, I'm here for the first time after a late session, so first I'm used to asking questions, so this misunderstanding on my part. As regards pharmacy activities in Slovenia, this is, of course, a public health service, which provides permanent and uninterrupted care for the population and health care providers with medicines and pharmaceutical treatment for patients. The Act on Pharmacy puts quality, safety and effective supply of medicines first and thus public interest and non-profit activities and non-profit making. To be properly understood. The restrictions of the Pharmaceuticals Act are intended to ensure the professional integrity of employees and the professional independence of the exercise of pharmacy activities for the benefit of patients. This was also addressed by the so-called prohibition of vertical connections, i.e. the link between pharmaceutical operators, wholesalers and manufacturers of medicinal products. This prevented the possibility of affecting the issue of medicinal products and other products in the light of possible economic interest and the impact on professional decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Janez Poklukar will answer Dr. Franca Trček's question regarding the Medical Act. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Duck! Similarly, if I continue to think earlier, the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities provides that the Ministry of Health is to supervise the legality of the work of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia in connection with the exercise of public powers. However, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia exercises control over the legality and purposeful use of membership funds. We also explain in this reply that the opinion on the professional questions raised by the competent chamber cannot be the reason for the exercise of supervision and therefore will not put in place supervision for that ministry. However, with regard to the adoption of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity-1C, I would like to stress the following. As you know, this proposal was opposed mainly by the professional public, not only the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, as the law allows the owner to influence the issue and sale of medicines and other products. This strengthens the economic interest and reduces the professional integrity and independence of pharmacists in the pharmacy. This was also opposed by the professional public, this fear. What pharmaceuticals as a public health service must pursue is a public health and non-economic objective. That's the key. So I hope I answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Janez Poklukar will answer Janez Moskrič's question regarding the co-responsibility of an individual who does not take into account measures to control and protect covida-19.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Janez Moscrich! When we talk about this issue, we need to know that at least four laws touch on it. Maybe a brief summary. The Health and Health Insurance Act, which regulates the health care and health insurance system in Slovenia, provides that everyone has the right to the highest possible level of health and to care for his or her health. It also states that no one should endanger the health of others. Everyone has the right to health care and the duty to contribute to its realization in accordance with his or her options. The health care system in Slovenia is based on the principles of equality and solidarity and the law sets out the rights arising from compulsory health insurance. There is also the possibility of enforcement of compensation liability. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is thus entitled to claim compensation for damage to those who intentionally or negligently caused damage to the health or death of an insured person. The Law on Patient Rights also gives not only rights but also sets forth duties. Among other things, a patient is required to participate actively in the protection, strengthening and recovery of his own health in order to achieve quality and safe medical treatment and to follow the professional instructions and treatment plans he has agreed to orally or in writing during the illness. Patients' obligations are also indirectly derived from the Medical Services Act, which provides for exceptions to the doctor’s responsibility for the course of treatment when, for example, the patient is not following his or her instructions or does not participate in the protection and recovery of his or her health. It is worth noting that the fundamental principle of harming no one in Slovenia is also applicable. This is a fundamental idea from which the rules of compensation law are based, also applicable in the field of health care and are legislated in the Bond Code. This principle means that no one can harm anyone or anyone must refrain from acting that would cause harm to others. Notwithstanding these provisions of the law, it is necessary to know that all these procedures are also subject to the procedure for determining the linkage or liability. Similar discussions often begin with responsibility for the health of smokers and those who, for example, over-indulgence in alcoholic beverages, and there are even more such cases. Personally, I believe that it is essential to realize first of all that there is a social concern for health, including health education and the empowerment of an individual, that he is also aware of his responsibilities and an active approach to personal health care. In these difficult times, the Ministry is primarily working to provide sufficient capacity for the treatment of the infected and to seek to sensitize and equip the inhabitants with the skills to act preventively and self-protectively at the time of spreading the infectious disease covida-19 and in particular the meaning and benefits of vaccination. The inspection or supervisory authorities responsible for monitoring the implementation of regulations or laws play an important role in this regard, since we know that every law is just a letter on paper if we do not have reporting or regulation on how it is implemented. The cost of covida-19 has been high on the healthcare side since the beginning of the virus, and we have spent over 600 million euros on it so far, says treatment and all treatment related to the health epidemic. However, regardless of these costs, any proposal for non-vaccinated treatment would result in disproportionate consequences of access to health care. The proposal also interferes with the social security of an individual, and there is also a moral-ethical dilemma that can raise questions about the voluntary participation of individuals in all preventive activities in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Comrade Muskrič, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! Really, it's a little easier to answer today than it was at the previous session. The numbers, thank God, are going in a positive direction, it is said that the patients are less, especially treated on an intense basis. As has been evident from my question, the importance of our self-responsibility is, above all, our conduct in terms of prevention already prescribed by the State in certain other areas. Specifically, I myself spoke on the basis of the Law on Protection at Work. Mr Minister said that we already have legislation in Slovenia that requires, so to speak, that requires the participation of patients to act responsibly in the treatment. That's phase two. But the first phase is that we always act responsiblely on our own. It is right that this issue has not been misrepresented in the media. Indeed, we have heard from other sources that there has been a question or dilemma, to pay or not to pay. Therefore, Minister, if you can answer at this level: there has already been a speech in the media by the medical profession in order to reflect on the partial participation of those who consciously, I emphasise, consciously, violate and call for violations of all measures for general health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for this supplementary question. See, all these questions and dilemmas about approaches must be seen from every possible social perspective. Given that we have a wide range of accessible, solidarity-based health care in Slovenia, any reckless action or speedy action could have a significant impact on the structure, view and functioning of our health care in the future. As I have already pointed out in the conclusion of my previous reply, it is crucial to realise that there is a fear that the proposal for payment for treatment of non-vaccinated persons could lead to significant disparities in accessibility to health care. We know that vulnerable groups in particular could have limited access here, so it is certainly important to be careful here, as this also interferes with the social security of an individual. From this we can make moral-ethical dilemmas arise: when, how, if at all appropriate. This question was therefore also addressed to the Commission for Medical Ethics, which said that it is somehow being fenced from this or is in a participatory way and does not support this thinking. As far as what's going on with the blood supply is concerned. If you come to the hospital and need blood and don't give blood - will you pay for participation? The dilemmas at this point are linked to a broad social debate, but I do not believe that such an approach will solve the situation we are in, but will have an important impact on access to the health of the most vulnerable groups. That's why I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Janez Poklukar will answer the question of Boštjan Koražija regarding the financing of specialisations in clinical psychology.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Bostian Koražija! The epidemic and measures to control it have caused an increase in mental health problems for children and adolescents. The fact is that professional services for children and young people with mental health problems were insufficient in Slovenia before the epidemic. The waiting period for a first examination in a clinical psychologist was also one year or more. At the same time, there was great inequality among them. Currently in the Republic of Slovenia we have only a third of the necessary clinical psychology specialists needed for the primary network, and the shortage is also in all three tertiary hospitals. The need for a system-wide funding regime for specialisations in clinical psychology has been highlighted for many years. In order to make these services more accessible, it is essential to strengthen staff at the primary and tertiary levels addressing the mental health of children and adolescents. For this reason, a proposal for the first phase of solving this problem was prepared in the framework of the Emergency Health Action Act by providing funding for 30 specialisations in clinical psychology from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health issued an invitation to tender for the financing of the first set of specialisations from clinical psychologists in September this year, with 10 seats awarded. 8 seats were awarded at the primary level of health care and could be applied to public health establishments operating at the primary level of health activities and having established mental health centres for children and adolescents, or are envisaged in 2021. However, two tendering posts were dedicated to specialisations at the tertiary level of health activities, and all public health establishments operating at the tertiary level were able to apply and ensure 24-hour accessibility for the reception and treatment of children and adolescents. 19 applications were received. In October this year, the Election Commission held a selection procedure between candidates who were notified by the public health authorities. On the basis of this selection procedure, the following public health institutions have been established, which will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, with the means to carry out specialisations from clinical psychology at the primary level of health care: the Health House of Dr Adolf Drolca Maribor, the Health House of Celje, the Health House of Domžale, the Health House of Ljubljana, the Health House of Dr. Franca Ambrožič Postojna, the Youth Care Centre of Rakitna, the Health House of Velje and the Health House of Ormož, and the University Psychiatric Clinic of Ljubljana and the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana. Decisions approving specialisation for selected candidates are already in place and are in the process of signing. Following the decisions issued, a contract will also be concluded to regulate the mutual obligations of the Ministry of Health, the specialist and the public health institution. The remaining 20 specialisations in clinical psychology, for which funding is provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, will be foreseen in 2022 and 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Comrade Koraži, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, if I understand correctly, there were in fact 30 registered places for clinical psychologists for the next 3 years or for this year, and for the following year, it is 10 per year. In fact, as far as I know, at least that's how the clinic of clinical psychologists announced that in fact, there are nine specialists per year who are trained or then specialized in clinical psychologists. So you're essentially just adding one a year, in fact, if I understand correctly. Okay. Then you'll answer me in response. This is already, I'll say, a little misleading, because, as far as I know, it was also publicly communicated that 10 clinical psychologists per year were actually meant to specialize. The problems experienced by young people, children in schools, are called students, students, should be noted. Sadly, children were among the elderly in their homes for the oldest victims of this coronary crisis. What needs to be pointed out in the first place is that in reality 50% of all mental disorders begin to occur by the age of 14. That's why I would expect you to actually allow 30 specialties a year. I know things have been going on since before, not just now, but I would expect, given the time crisis that's been happening to us, that you'll just go into action and start with an even larger number of specializations for clinical psychologists. And there's one more thing I'm interested in at the end. You said 19 full applications. According to 19 full applications there have been 10 specialties of clinical psychologists [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	President, thank you so much for saying this. Mr Korazia, thank you very much for the additional question. Until this year, all the specializations of clinical psychology were on the shoulders of public health institutions or health care providers. With this year and with the implementation of the intervention law, it is considered that 10 specialisations per year have been taken over by the State in terms of funding. This does not mean that other specialisations are not possible and are not possible. I still believe that there will be a total of 19 specializations at the end of reported and implemented. As regards the lack of clinical psychologists, it is also true that with these 30 we increase the total number if I simplify this view by one quarter over the next three years. Correct me, as far as I know the law myself, it is also meant in marriage for 10 years and 30 in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. Well, thank you for your answer, Minister. The fact is that in Slovenia we would need about 400 specialists in clinical psychology. We are also here on the tail of the European Union, and we are on a global scale many times on that poor average that we are reaching. Indeed, the matter has been dragging or has been happening since before, but in this time of coronary crisis, the need for these specializations, which in fact then take place for about 10 years to specialize in clinical psychology at all, should indeed now begin to increase the number of places and possibilities for entry or the implementation of these specialties. However, it is another matter that the Ministry of Education or the Minister of Education is not responding to these options or that I have expected that you, as the Ministry of Health, have called these specializations, that it will also be more actively involved in this possibility of searching or specialization for primary school students or students, because what has happened in the last year can also be seen by the telephone for children and adolescents of TOM, which everyone knows or knows about young people, in 2020 as much as 72% more calls to this phone when they are even thinking or threatening suicide. And these are alarming numbers that not only give a person thought, but also require an active and actual action, or even the execution of these specializations, because it is obvious that this crisis will be, unfortunately, as has already been said at the beginning, the two groups that were most affected or even the most severely affected by these coronaryisms have been carried away, namely, children or adolescents and older persons, or aged in nursing homes. As has already been said, I propose that a broader debate or debate be held on this subject in the National Assembly, because, as has already been said, things are being drawn from before, and I think that we must now and here not only begin to resolve them as soon as possible, but also resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Podgoršek, should answer the question of Primož Siter regarding the climate problem of mass industrial livestock, but the Minister is absent today. The Member will receive a written reply. We are moving on to a questionable Member and Members. Edward Paulič will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, hello! On 5 November, I sent you a written letter of initiative to send me the minutes of the expert advisory group for a period of one year back. There are several reasons for this initiative. The key thing is that we Members have the right to know, after all, what measures this group proposes, what is the professional basis for taking these measures, and what is the right to know which proposals the Government takes into account and which is not and what is the time gap between the group's proposal and the government's adoption. I got your answer, but I have to say the answer is very benign in some way. You wrote that the expert group meets once a week, that the public from the group's point of view is informed through press conferences. You haven't even touched my initiative, and at least what you'd expect is to tell me whether or not I'm gonna get these records. And if not, why not? Because that's how you give the impression that something's hidden. The fact is that in the past there has been a number of conflicting information about these measures. Some measures were taken practically overnight; they were contradictory information, three different information in one day. If I give this last case to sell drinks and food on the stands. The measure was taken very late again, the innkeepers had already acquired certain stocks, certain equipment such as heaters and the like, and you simply banned this sale and thereby caused them business damage due to the untimely action. This latter case, too, is actually why I would like to personally obtain the records of this advisory group, because I suppose that these records will make clear what the professional basis is for this measure to be implemented on the stand, but it is not implemented, for example, in the sale of burek and other guest activities. My question is: Will I get those records or not and if not, why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Edward Paulich! The current consultative group was appointed on 26 February this year and has ten members. A consultative group was appointed on 31 March last year by the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar. As far as the consultative group is concerned, it works in public more or less, and has communication with the media at virtually all its meetings. I also believe that Dr. Logarov's representative regularly performs at press conferences. As far as your initiative is concerned, in accordance with Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, each Member may take an initiative to regulate individual matters or to take certain measures in the field of government or individual ministry or government service. The transmission of the minutes of the expert group's meetings does not in itself constitute an initiative, in accordance with this Article, and so far we have not issued these minutes. But if you think it's public information, we'll do it in the future. As far as action-related matters are concerned, it is important that those who are decision-makers or who are decision-makers and who are first in line in front of people, we advocate feasibility and follow the profession. The excellent PCT measure has faded through a wide variety of routes in the company, and we have come into the fourth wave. And similarly, I warn you all together, it's happening now around Christmas fairs and selling cooked wines. The decree is clear to whom and how hospitality can be carried out, so I do not see any need for any discussion in this regard. Except in view of the fact that it was assumed at the start that Christmas fair operators were able to ensure the proper implementation of this and that there will be no derogation that we have seen in recent weeks in the implementation of the one that is yelling and threatening to do so in itself will be a reason for the poor implementation of the measures and for the control of the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Comrade Paulic, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, I have also requested these minutes in accordance with the definition of information of a public nature. But I still don't understand, you've repeated that the expert group is working in public and that the public is aware of all their suggestions. The fact is that representatives of the section participate in press conferences, but this does not mean that the public is aware of all their proposals. My purpose is not malicious, but it is only to determine what this time component is from the proposal of the section to the adoption at the government meeting or until the adoption of the decision. I find it hard to believe that, I don't know, as far as this last case is concerned, the expert group has found that it is necessary to prohibit the sale of food and drink, I don't know, today, the government will accept it tomorrow. I think this time gap was still longer and I'm just wondering why we can't get to these records and what you're hiding here. And it's not malicious, it's just so that I can get this information that I can't get through public information.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Pavlic, for complementing the issue. Look, we're not hiding anything. This is a fact, so, once again, all information is available, even those that are needed, because the expertise should also be interpreted. That's why medical school is six years and then specialization. It has also proved to be so simple and has proved to be a basis for a wide variety of public debates, which have not led nowhere, largely into our separation, our unanimity and, ultimately, the effect is exactly the same as that of an expert group. What must concern us at this point is the unity and follow-up of the section's recommendations and, once again, by the implementation of resolution 8. 11. and then through the joint implementation of all Slovenes and Slovenes of this decree, we have shown that if we are united, and if we approach together to solve the epidemic and realize that the epidemic is a social problem, it is a health problem, but health is the part of society that, with its knowledge and knowledge, can make an important contribution to better management of the epidemic, then we can manage it. And this is my call and my message to everyone else. Let us not forget here that the most important message is all medical professions, not in Slovenia, but around the world, vaccination. Publicly in records and all such and other publications. In the end, however, this is the basis for a major debate that takes the wind away from us in the sails, so that we can step more safely on a new day in the coming months. Once again, we do not hide anything you want, you will also get, and that is the only thing we want, transparent, clear and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavlič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'll explain first. Once again, this is not a malicious question or an initiative, but perhaps, Minister, we will agree that certain measures in the past have been either awkwardly communicated or illogical in some respect. I have to say that I resent you when you said that your profession should be interpreted and that's why there's a medical college where they're going to be studying for this profession for six years. I don't believe that all government members have been educated for six years at medical school. I also believe that you will admit that we Members are so responsible that even if we come to these records, we will not misinterpret them. But once again, the last measure that was taken, I'm not saying that it might not be necessary, but this time delay was so short that it would have been easier if we had done it sooner if we had. Therefore, President, it is my procedural proposal to hold a public hearing at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Sonibo Knežak will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, we are 13 December. It will be almost two months before Europe has literally shaken the fact that energy prices, including other goods, will rise enormously. December 13th, almost two months after we warned you that energy poverty was also knocking on our door. Dear Minister, energy poverty has already entered Slovenian homes without hindrance. Moreover, the government seems to have helped open the door to energy poverty with its ignorance. Dear Mr. Vrtovac, when it was also said from your side that there is no need for any panic, that everything is under control, today the matter is quite different. Many of our citizens and citizens are sitting in their cold homes at this very moment when we are discussing this room because they do not hope to turn on the radiator in fear of the positions that are coming. The Trbovje municipality has informed its users that heating will increase by 57%. Such notices have been received in the past days by people in Ljubljana, Maribor, Vrhnika and elsewhere. Fuel is now more than 40% more expensive than it was a year ago. The price of electricity is 30% higher, prices of natural gas, heating oil, heating. The problem is clear, and it's already very much in the wallet of people, older people, families. But the problem is not just rising prices. The problem is that the government doesn't do anything to ease people's distress. Words don't help. With the opposition, the Social Democrats demanded two urgent committees. We talked long and wide about the problem in the National Assembly. All we have heard from the government is that the market is functioning and that the market will fix everything. Mr. Swirl, those are your words. The market already works, but I'm afraid it doesn't work for people. For at least two months now, the Social Democrats have been reminding you that it is necessary to react quickly and in an integrated manner, with all the resources available and made by the European Commission in its recommendations. I ask you, especially Minister Vrtovac, not to be too hasty to explain how the government has introduced the regulation of the prices of combustion oil, when we know that this is just a patch on an increasingly bleeding early man's grip. There is still no answer to the question of when will the Government accept specific aid to alleviate energy poverty, which is felt mainly by low-income pensioners, unemployed and low-income workers. May I remind you, however, that at the Committee on the Economy, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure said that the Government would prepare assistance, which is not from anywhere. We Social Democrats have therefore drafted the Law on Temporary Measures to Prevent Energy Poverty, which provides for an energy credit for the most vulnerable in our society. Today, the law, together with opposition partners, will be incorporated into the legislative procedure if this ignorance of the government continues. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor, for the first time: When will a bill be prepared to alleviate the effects of energy abuse on the poor and at risk? And secondly, since there are solutions to the law that the Social Democrats are about to introduce today, in the direction that the Government has also pointed, this is what the 150 euro energy vouchers call, I am interested in: Will you support the bill that will be tabled today? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wrotec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the question that was full of perceptions. I can say that the Government is very closely following developments on the energy market, not only in Slovenia, but also as the Presidency of the EU Council at international level. That is why we also called for the Energy Ministers' Summit, which was held at the end of October in Luxembourg, and we discussed this thoroughly. The government will react in accordance with the tool box, the so-called toolbox proposed by the European Commission. But be careful! With regard to the most vulnerable groups, we have said publicly that we will help the most vulnerable groups. Pensioners will be assisted under the PKP10 package. Mr. Brickler will say more about this. But it is to those pensioners who have the lowest pensions, under 500 euros, that you will have here at table PKP10. Details, I believe that Mr Cigler King, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, will explain them. So he's helping the pensioners. As for all other groups of the most vulnerable, we have prepared a system of so-called vouchers, energy vouchers. But first let's wait for what this crisis is going to be like, until the end, to see what segment it's going to take, how long it's going to last. Otherwise, if we put money on our noses, we can only support the speculative market. Only the speculative market can be supported. We need to prepare a systemic solution to help all those who have been affected, not partial segments of people, with one package. You listed Trbovlje, you could list Maribor, Jesenice. Ask business directors, they are not state owned by these companies, when they bought gas prices and why this problem did not occur in Celje. Mayor Maribor, I think he's already reacted in one case and one director is no longer the director. Some other companies, particularly when we talk about gas, have done absolutely different things and have, say, bought gas in time, energy and now they have no problems. Some speculated to the end that the price might even fall. Why would the state help only some? The government will wait for this crucial moment to capture as many people as possible, so that we can have as many facts on the table as possible, and then it will react in a timely and correct manner. For the most invulnerable, pensioners, you will have a proposal in the National Assembly, I hope that December already is on the table. John will talk more about this. One message. If we are to avoid such crises in the long term, we will need to consider changing energy in these places in the long term. Slovenia must become an energy independent state. That is why we need to invest more in renewable energy, do more in this area, not just say that the sun is our future, but we have 2% of electricity from the sun. In fact, we need to invest more in renewable energy and, in addition, that will certainly not be enough, our future is also with new technologies. Here we are offered a new nuclear power plant in Krske. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Brickler King, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member Sonibo Knezak, thank you for this question. But in fact, you've asked quite a few arguments that don't hold. As a fruit of the inter-ministerial working group, the government already has all the solutions available to respond to the energy boosts for heating. We, as the colleague of Minister Vrtovec has just explained, will take action at the right time and also at the right height. Given that we already have very well managed system social assistance and that this has also proved to be true during the cavid epidemic, even among the lockdowns, when we have really effectively ensured that people do not fall into the risk of poverty, let me mention that all recipients of monetary social assistance have the opportunity – these are the weakest, financially weak – to ask for an extraordinary amount of 402 euros in financial assistance up to five times a year. Of these five options, three are intended, for example, for heating, for a specific purpose, and two are not intended to provide for themselves the financial social assistance they need. So in the meantime, nobody should stay, I'd say, in the cold, as you mentioned. I call on people to contact the competent centre for social work, which knows them, who knows their situation, and in the event that they do not have sufficient means of heating, to request extraordinary financial social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Comrade Prince, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you, Minister. In fact, if I pulled the line, you both answered me like this. Yeah, we've got everything ready when we need it, we'll put it in. When? Spring? They're on their way. They're coming every month. It's winter now. If you don't believe the pressure is great, when we're done with this official work, I can show you the notices, the emails we're getting, with the concrete pressures of people. I believe we have quite a few mechanisms, as you said, Minister King, I don't know how many people know how much they can use it, but the pressure is on people. I really wouldn't be doing any politics on this subject, but we've been warning for two months now, and nothing's moving. Dear Minister, tell us in Slovenia how we differ from, I don't know, Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy, France, Portugal, Estonia, Spain, not to mention. We obviously do not have to do anything, but in those countries concrete measures have already been taken to prevent the energy crisis. Is that where people get colder than we do? I don't think so. I just think politics is different, more natural. The government is a little ignorant about this problem. That is why I call on you, Minister, to answer the Slovenian public: When and what will you do to mitigate the effects of energy poverty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Minister Rotovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	When? At a time when it will be necessary to provide as much assistance as possible to the widest possible group of people and to have accurate indicators, in what amount and in what way, because this moment of ad hoc solution could only help the speculative market. That's not what anyone wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Even Minister Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Member of the Prince. Minister Vrtovec has already mentioned that this solution is foreseen in the PKP-10, which, I think, has already been sent to Parliament and is now a matter of your procedures in Parliament. I think it'll be on the agenda in December, at least it should be, that's the point. However, I repeat that in the past year and a half we are actually these weakest groups in different ways, both systematically through monetary social assistance, exceptional financial social assistance, even through intervention, I can say, a solidarity supplement which was some kind of dragan supplement and was supposed to compensate for this vulnerability, the threat posed by the virus, because it was not known because of unforeseen circumstances, what the consequences of this pandemic and lockdowns would actually be, and are actually the social and financial weakest pensioners already getting the solidarity supplement, and now this supplement will also be in the PKP-10. The government has these people in mind, and it wants to help them, and it will help them. The solutions are ready and I also think that when they are adopted, they will be effective, in order to prevent this aspect of speculation as well. Let me say that, on the other hand, we would also like to burden the working population, which also bears the consequences of the irritation, by deploring wages by increasing the overall benefit of the benefits from the work. That's why there's gonna be more net in people's pockets. In this way, we will help the middle class, the active ones, to bear these consequences of stimulation, which, of course, are, I agree with you, a heavy burden. They're hard to cover, and he's worried about it. But I have to thank all the natural persons, residents, citizens and citizens, including the welfare institutions and the economy that have so far trusted the government to help. And we helped in a timely, efficient way and thus prevented the fall into poverty, helped people with solidarity, Draganjska supplements and, on the other hand, maintained 300,000 jobs so that we can now work full. By providing timely and appropriate assistance to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Comrade Knezak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Although I believe that we have discussed this subject more than enough in this House, we know the facts, we face them every day that action is needed in essence now. Nevertheless, I propose, not least as one form of pressure on the government, that this issue be discussed again in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mojca Škrnjar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Tončko Hočevar security and work centre in Ljubljana has existed for more than five decades. At that time, the institution, whose founder is the State and on its behalf your Ministry, took care of many citizens and citizens with special needs. Today he faces a serious spatial problem and there are ten more people on the list who need accommodation and cannot get it. There is also a lack of space for workshops, especially for the mess trade, which requires the volume and stability of the building. The security guards of the institution are particularly distinguished in this particular area. It would be good for these workshops to have exhibition rooms. So I'm asking you: When will the institution get the additional capacity needed, both for accommodation, recreation, therapy and workshops, because the situation is urgent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Ambassador Mojca the Boxman! A very important issue and thank you for this issue and concern. At the time of the ministerial appearance, one of the key priorities that we set with the team was caring for vulnerable groups in all respects. At our ministry, we are aware of the spatial problem that you have outlined in the question, which is faced by the Tončko Hočevar Safety and Work Centre and, together with the Tončka Hočevar Social Protection Institute, we are looking for suitable solutions. In the last two years, the Institute has acquired new premises and established a dislocated unit in Parmova, Ljubljana, for the implementation of the painting-ceramic programme. He also acquired accommodation for a residential group in Šiška. Currently, perhaps this is the most fresh and good news for you as well as for all users of VDC Tončke Hočevar services, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for investment documentation for the purchase of land and the construction of the Šmartno accommodation unit. With this investment, VDC Tončke Hočevar will acquire an estimated accommodation capacity for 14 users. The investment will take place in 2022 and 2023 and is estimated at around €1.5 million. We at the Ministry support this investment and are expected to co-finance it almost entirely. A small part of the funds will be contributed by the Social Protection Institute – VDC Tončke Hotchevar himself. The plant has already bought the land for this purpose. However, we continue to look intensively for solutions to the other spatial problems of the institution. It's a big office. We're all aware of that. Some 240 users are included in the workshop. In addition, more than 100 users are accommodated in institutional protection. We therefore need to plan spatial solutions comprehensively and gradually. With the management of the institution, we will also have a joint working meeting in a short time, at which we will review and explore the various options that will help to develop longer-term solutions. Among the first steps, it is certainly planned to withdraw the mentioned workshop from the central location to a more suitable location. It should be noted, however, that the covida-19 epidemic has put new requirements in the area of the provision of adequate spatial capacity ahead of all social protection institutions. VDC Tončke Hočevar is one of the 23 protection and work centres in Slovenia, which also face spatial distress and which we are trying to help as comprehensively as possible within our capabilities and resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Škrnjar, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Thank you for this very good news. At the same time, I would invite you to cooperate with Ljubljana’s decision makers. In Ljubljana we have quite a few areas that are deprived and that is where new construction would actually be needed. Once the new construction is started, all groups of people need to be considered. So I ask you to also study the situation in Ljubljana and reflect on every new wall plan that appears in Ljubljana, so that at the same time premises for vulnerable groups such as security workers and other vulnerable groups and older ones are planned. Please keep an eye on the fact that even in Ljubljana we get a suitable network distributed throughout Ljubljana and thus accessibility for all these people. But as I said before, I'm glad I got this good news about Smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member of the Box! I can pledge that we will continue or perhaps now monitor more closely the procedures, as you mentioned, in the area of the Municipality of Ljubljana, so that the vulnerable groups will also be adequately cared for. Social security institutions are not just nursing homes, they are VDCs, CUDVs, special welfare institutions that care for the most vulnerable groups in order to enable them to be dignified in order to enable them to be activated as much as possible in order to enable them to become as integrated as possible. The VDCs – a few of them I have already visited – are really all over Slovenia, I can say, on a top level. Teams work hard, they're hearty, they're self-sacrificing, and they're basically changing life stories. And here is our duty to help in our best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Simoni Kustec a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister! I'll be very brief. The coalition parliamentary groups have, with the signatures of members of the national communities, tabled a proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, in which there are two main solutions. One of these is that there is an increase in the influence of representatives of employees in sacred institutions, we are talking about the basic text of the law, which has somehow broken the public into two halves. The first half are local communities that support and welcome the solution with open hands, the second - and I think it is more important - but they are involved in the educational process, I am mainly talking about employees in public schools and public schools who have also sent their views to the National Assembly. They signed a petition against the adoption of this law. I think they've collected over 28 thousand signatures in kindergartens and schools. Not to mention teaching experts, lecturers from the faculty of education and so on. That's how we have two camps now. On the one hand, it is understandable that the mayors who want to have a greater influence in the appointment of directors, the adoption of human resources plans and so on. On the other hand, we have concerned teachers and other pedagogical workers who in some ways do not want to have fewer words about who will lead the educational group, how they will develop staff cuts in schools and so on. That's how I'm interested in exactly the following. The government gave a positive opinion on this bill. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary-General: What was your role in drafting this law, or after being submitted to Parliamentary Procedure? But above all, I want to know: What is your professional opinion, or opinion, of a person sitting at the Ministry of Education, who should primarily be concerned about how this system will continue to work as smoothly as possible? Given that the vast majority of experts say that this system, which has been designed, I think at the time of Dr. Gabra's ministry, has been introduced and is, in fact, quite effective, is my very specific question: How do you feel about that? Isn't this another time when you have to defend the interests of employees in public schools and schools, not the interests of local communities, because you are, after all, the Minister of Education, not for local self-government? But I would ask for a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Member Tashner Vatovec! I could answer in a few seconds. You know the government's opinion, and you've been briefed on it on the committee itself. But I'm going to take a few points so there's not gonna be a dilemma. Certainly, the Government considers the proposal made by the parliamentary groups, namely your colleagues and colleagues, not the Government, that the reasons why the amendment was opened were justified. Reasoned, in fact, by very specific situations not long ago, situations related to the period just before the start of the school year, when fortunately with a large minority, but nevertheless some principals decided not to comply with the guidelines and rules for the safe opening of schools and thus the start and implementation of school education at school premises, but to do so differently. One of the assessments of why they succeeded was that something is also in the balance of the composition of the worlds itself, which should be optimized so that such situations would not occur. After reviewing both valid legal bases, these are the Law on Institutions and the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, it has been shown that there is room for manoeuvre here that we can still create a different form that will be more balanced by all those who represent the structure of the members of the Council: founders, employees and parents in this particular case, and in the case of secondary schools also students. From this point of view, in fact, here, I believe that, in the course of the Committee's own hearing, there was a balanced and appropriate proposal, a proposal that we have already known and which has already been implemented in the composition of 3 + 3 + 3. Of course, I am also aware that the proposal for the novel itself has not yet been completed. If I understand correctly, you will convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly for the final consideration of this point, so that you will probably have the last word after the procedure. I would, however, take this opportunity to open up yet another matter, which remains open and which we have also pointed out in the Government's opinion. This is progress in the composition or in one employee profile. I certainly understand that the proposal has been carefully examined and is very on-the-spot, but the proposal is only one of several groups of employees in education and education and, as such, in fact, it can, although extremely well-intentioned, ultimately bring new injustices and imbalances in the whole employment system and in this connection also to the system of progress and in the final stage also to the system of wages. Given that we have very clear procedures in our system, as these issues are appropriately addressed, I would like to see another such reflection made in spite of all this, whether we, Members and Members, would leave this to an agreement within the framework of a collective agreement and a joint agreement at this point with all relevant stakeholders in order to avoid direct political interference in this decision. But I know this has happened a lot. Last but not least, your parliamentary group in the previous term has thus gone through collective bargaining and this institution with that proposal for minimum wage. So, as it is said, we also point out in this article that a further thought may be made, and we ask you in this respect to take this into account in terms of equality and justice. The hall is beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	Based on the answer, I'd like some more additions to what I've heard. It's true. We got the government's opinion. I wonder if the Ministry's opinion is the same. So, the Ministry of Education is the one that prepared this opinion, and then the government just confirmed it, whether anyone at the Ministry had any thoughts about such an arrangement. As for bad practices at the time of school opening. I can understand that, we all must have been amazed at the scenes of the officials who resisted that the epidemic existed, that the virus existed, and we were looking for evidence for it at the Ministry. But I don't think this can be the basis for changing the sacred institutions of primary schools. There is no guarantee that if a candidate is politically set up, it is said that if local policy had a greater influence in the world of institutions, there is no guarantee that directors would be better. Just the opposite. I think that this is the concern of stakeholders in the education and education system, it is said that there would be too much thought about who is whose, when we talk about principals, but not who is the best person for this function. I think that this is the main concern of the employees that they will lose this voice they have had so far, and they will no longer have an impact on who will actually be the leader of the collective. I think that this should also be the interest of the Ministry of Education in considering such issues. So I'm really curious: Is it true that this system, which many employees had anticipated, was so bad that it was now necessary to go back after the amendments at a time we had known and obviously did not work if then the end of the 1990s the government decided that this system would change?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government was adopted unanimously on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I believe you can look at it again and read it as part of your material when you consider this point. In it, we actually pointed to a dilemma. This dilemma with regard to the composition of the Council itself was, as it is said, balanced on the Committee. This balance means that now all three sides have the same weight of voice. However, you must be aware that the founder is a congregation, in the middle of which the state is directly concerned. And he is certainly the first to be responsible when things go wrong, the founder. In any case, it must have the same equivalent weight of voice as all others, as employees and as parents. From this point of view and from the point of view of respect for the legal basis, it has been clarified here. Nevertheless, I would also point out that a positive opinion on the bill has also been given by the Council of State, and I would certainly point out that you have the right opportunity and responsibility and the right to propose the law or novelties of the law. In this respect too, the government then follows in such cases in parliamentary democracy by giving its opinion. The last word, when laws are passed or amended, is always yours, and ours is to implement them on the basis of your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marko Bandelli, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravko Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you, President. Dear Minister! At the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly, as you know, I will ask you here a question concerning the resignation of Director Holding Kobilarna Lipica. As part of the Kobilarna Lipica, the hotel Maestoso is operating, which is currently under renovation. I'm going to say that it's still in the reconstruction phase right now, because that's actually the truth. Although the hotel opened its doors this July, some projects are still under way. The budgets adopted for the years 2022 and 2023 do not provide the funds from which the cobalt money could be allocated for the renovation of the hotel. In the SAB, we therefore proposed a supplement in which we would provide the means to complete all the investments started and to complement the National Assembly unfortunately refused. Just like they all did. That's why I'm interested, Minister: Why did you not provide sufficient resources in the budget for the renovation of this hotel for 2022 and 2023? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	Dear Member, Marko Bandelli, distinguished National Assembly! Thank you for asking. Holding Kobalna Lipica, a limited liability company, is in accordance with the corporate management system of the company whose director is appointed by the supervisory board of the company. Following the resignation of the current Director for private reasons, the Supervisory Board, by appointing the new Director, ensured the continuity and stability of the management of the Kobilarna. The new director has so far served as Deputy Director and Head of the Finance, Accounting and Procurement Service in the company. I'm sure she has all the knowledge and experience she needs to lead Lipica professionally and with her heart. However, as far as investment is concerned, we must separate the public and market activity of Kobilarna Lipica. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall finance the functioning of the public service of Kobilarna Lipica. These include labour costs, real estate management, investments in cobial infrastructure, farming and lipican education. The rest is a market activity, including the hotel activity you are mentioning. In 2021, we earmarked €6 million for public service operations from the budget. For 2022, we will provide €7 million. The hotel Maestoso is part of a market activity, so in Lipica, like other tourism companies operating on the market, they have to justify and make investments economically. The host of the renovation project of the hotel Maestoso is Holding Kobilirna Lipica, which performs a market activity. The project of renovation was financed from fixed capital and loans. The hotel renovation project is over, so I don't agree with you here that it's in the process. But we still have a few plans to make in Lipica. The hotel’s renovation cost EUR 11 million, of which EUR 7 million was from the core capital and EUR 4 million from the loan. Like many others, the impact of the epidemic has been known for the last two years in the operation of Lipica. This affects both regular business and investment. I believe that next year will be much easier and better from this point of view, and in Lipica, they know how to make further investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, you have your word for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you. Minister, this is the classic answer I expected. Actually, we say a lot and we don't say anything. You just said one big floscule about it. First, we want to rebuild the hotel, make something new, introduce it into the world, as if the heritage that matters to Slovenia is all that it is, and from the beginning, it has been known exactly that those funds are not satisfactory, that we are going into one reconstruction, into one strategic reconstruction of the system itself as such. That the Director of Holding Kobilarna Lipica has resigned, he has not resigned, and we must be honest with him. It was once again one of your government's rigors, and you demanded an amicable withdrawal. You said to him, "You're going to give up or we're going to do something different." And who did you put in the principal's seat? The accountant. Please! Competence. I will tell you because your president, Mr Drofenik, said himself that the director's programme, the programme itself was very convincing, as well as the results that are here, are very visible, especially in the horse sector, the re-establishment of the Leipzig traditional riding school. This was urgently needed to be prepared. And he did. The regulation of the backlogs of previous years in the field of horse preparation and the implementation of the breeding programme has also created this. He re-established the highest professional standard in the horserace. It says all the things only an expert can do, not an accountant. You've put up an accountant now who's going to head some public firm if you say so, and we don't know what she's going to do there. And that's not right. I'm asking you to really give me another answer: Why did this happen because this is wrong, and why do you no longer finance these investments that should be made to the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	Yes, Your Honor. I understand the pain of the events in Lipica on your part. However, once again, I repeat that it is necessary to separate the public from the private sector in order for the public sector to be financed by the State, the market part will make further investments in the way that all other companies have to do. If someone has resigned, and I have no reason not to believe that he did this voluntarily, after what I have heard, the Supervisory Board is obliged to appoint a new director. In Lipica, the hotel's renovation, expansion, is excellent. In the end, it must be said that this is one bigger story than it was before. I believe that the people who now run Lipica will lead this story well forward and that Lipica will once again become one of the pillars of recognition of Slovenia in the tourist field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you. Yes, Minister, it's true. You know, it really is the world that makes decisions, but there is one person who is Mr Hevka, who seems to be more important than the President of the world itself. He decides everything. And you know that I get this information directly. Directly. And it's not right what's going on in there. That's what I told you. When you start investing in reconstruction and you decide to renew the hotel to go into this investment, let us understand that this matter needs to be completed. Just like you ended up in Podčettek, Minister. How much money came in on Thursday? How many sources did he come from? It's huge. I'm not going to count them here because it's going to become people's fear to see and to hear what tens and tens of millions. And well, in tourism, no one says anything. But if you've started this investment in Lipica, you should also finish it. It's like you go to a woman, you put your pants down and don't finish. That's the same thing, if you know what I mean. There's something else important here, and I'd like to ask you. This adoption of a strategic document Management plan for the Kobilarna Lipica site. You said you had some things in order, and then you stopped it. This is also an important matter; this is where we need to go to the end. Expanding golf course, pool technique, wellness center, it's all hotel stuff and it's not finished. How's the hotel gonna end up on its own? In the beginning, you guaranteed a free debt, but now they have a 5% loan. Crazy! I don't know how you imagine it, because you were alone in the hotel business and you know what the trouble is to get these things done. So I think these horses in general, as far as Lipica is concerned, are our heritage. That's it. If you don't feel it because you're from elsewhere in Slovenia, I don't care. I will be fighting every moment for this part of our heritage, this beauty that we have in Slovenia, so that the Austrians will not take it away from us, because there is very little. The family book's almost out. This is where we know what this was all about. It's the pride of Slovenia. We have to keep this any way we can. If not now, in the next phase. The mission of the state is to keep this here, Minister. If we want the tourist part to come to the green branch, we need to get the projects to the end, not work them halfway. And that's what we resent, and that's what all Krashevs, all Primors, blame you. You started some kind of investment, some good idea, and then you left everything in half. That is why I think and I propose that one debate be held on this. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Alexander Reberšek will ask the Minister of Environment and the Magi area a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! In Slovenia more than 137 million bottles end in nature, in landfills and incinerators, which means they do not go into recycling. Bottles 5 - this is this bottle - are made of material that is easily recycled and does not lose its value if the material is clean and if there are no other types of plastics added. That is why it is up to all of us to upgrade and improve the waste management system. The system is already working well in the ten countries of the European Union and I do not know why we should be detecting hot water here. If we look at Estonia and Lithuania alone, we can see that they are already practically meeting the 90 % commitment to the waste packaging. Experience from other countries has shown that financial motivation in the form of bail is a very effective incentive for separate collection. In Lithuania, for each package of drinks which is part of the system, a deposit amount of 10 cents is fixed. Thus, Lithuania collected only 33 % of the waste packaging for drink in 2015 and within two years of the establishment of the bail-out system, it has already reached an exceptional 92 % of the collected waste containers. This small-scale stimulation of the consumer has proved extremely effective and I support all the sincere efforts of Eco Circle and other organisations and many societies that strive for a clean environment and nature. We are also aware of the problems of environmental pollution in New Slovenia, so we have stopped the new organisational form called the Green Alliance, which focuses on sustainable development, ecology, green technologies, and a co-natural way of life. The introduction of the bailout system is therefore an important point of our programme, namely the proposal for a government programme 2022-2026, in which we present a number of environmental measures. In New Slovenia we see the deposit system as a cheaper, more efficient and transparent way of collecting waste packaging, which also contributes to less waste disposal and allows more reuse of the packaging of drinks and quality recycling. Dear Minister, we must move from words to actions. Therefore, I expect from you that the system of deposit collection of waste bottles will be adopted in this mandate. Let us not forget: We did not inherit the land from our ancestors, but we borrowed it from our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. In this government's mandate, we have set ourselves a key objective to address the waste sector in a comprehensive manner. Also by consistently taking over the directive introducing the producer's extended liability, it is that everyone who places the product on the market is responsible for this product, its packaging, through the entire life cycle both financially and organisationally. A system called PRO – the producer's extended responsibility is the essence of a new law on environmental protection, which is in the parliamentary procedure. I believe, given that they support it, in particular this waste, including all non-governmental organisations, that it will be adopted and enforced. Of course, the system-PRO also addresses the handling of all waste streams that are more. Among other things, one of these waste streams is waste packaging, where it is most disorderly in this country and where we are fighting a battle with many interests, and in particular the interests of as much money as possible in the hands of these companies and the respect of environmental objectives. We are finally working on this area of order and the bail system is also compatible with our proposal for a law on environmental protection. As far as the bailout system is concerned, we already know him in Slovenia. We know it especially in the case of bottles where you can bring a bottle and carry it full, and it is actually a built-in bailout system. As for waste packaging, in particular bottles and cans, you know, we have had a system of ecological islands established in Slovenia for 20 years, as well as collection from door to door. According to the Economic Chamber, which, together with the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies and the Environmental Protection Service with the Association of the Drinking Industry, has done a preliminary analysis and it is found that we are already collecting or recycling 63 to 89%, which is a wide range. According to the latest methodology, we will soon receive data for last year. On the basis of the directives, we also have very ambitious objectives for the future, by 2025 and 2029. While we estimate that the existing system could collect and achieve these objectives, especially by 2025, it is very questionable, or even by 2029. Therefore, the Ministry of the Environment and I personally support the introduction of the bailout system for bottles and cans, because we believe that this will further help to achieve this goal, so that as many recycling cans and bottles come back into recycling as possible, that they do not end up in nature or anywhere, but not in buckets of municipal mixed waste, but return to processing and thereby reduce the environmental burden. We have examined the proposal prepared by the NGO Legal and Information Centre of NGOs, and together with you Members, in the second reading of the Environmental Protection Act, we will also support the amendments to a few articles to implement the bailout system in the Republic of Slovenia with a new law. Of course, it is also necessary to draw up a regulation setting out in more detail the organisation, manner and implementation of this bailout system. I must say that the NGO's Legal Information Centre has also drawn up a proposal that needs to be aligned with the drinking producers and also with traders who will collect it in the same way as the other schemes, and that the regulation should also be prepared in parallel with the implementation of the law. If I cut it short. The Ministry of Environment and Space supports the introduction of the bailout system for bottles and cans. We will also prepare all necessary regulations for the implementation of this system as far as possible. In particular, we are pleased to meet the environmental objectives ahead of the deadlines set by the Directives.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Comrade Reberšek, you need to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that again. Yes, it is nice to hear that the Minister or the Ministry of the Environment supports the introduction of the bailout system for cans and bottles. I am also pleased that you have decided to include the bail system in the law on environmental protection in the second reading; here we will certainly contribute our share in order to make this happen as soon as possible. I hope and believe that this law will be adopted in this mandate, because three meetings of the National Assembly are good for three months before the elections. I look forward to this law coming, I hope, as soon as possible, on the agenda, because this law solves a number of issues regarding the pollution of our beautiful country and that we are all working together towards a cleaner environment. I also believe that the introduction of this bailout system will help us no longer to witness the scenes, and the bottles are lying by the basket on the ground, on the road, on the lawn, even on our many mountains, that, as shown by the practice abroad, people will bring these cans and bottles back, as this will also stimulate them. I thank you for your answer. My question is: Is it realistic to expect this law to be passed in this mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for that additional question. The reasons why we support the bailout system, although we today have a system where this is collected, but due to the carelessness of some of these bottles and cans ends in nature. On the other hand, many of these bottles and cans are not found in the separately collected part of the waste but in mixed municipal waste, where everything ends, except separately collected waste. And as a result, they have centers where they sort it out, so there's more work to do. In fact, this leads to the possibility of collecting more of these reusable bottles and cans and thus better achieving the environmental objectives that are in fact key to this decision. The Environmental Protection Act has already been introduced into the National Assembly. This week, a decision will be taken whether or not to submit a proposal for a general discussion or for a so-called first reading. If so, then it will probably be the first reading in January's regular session, and then the devil's little time is left for us to get this law through by the end of our term of office. I call on this place, given that the law is mainly coordinated with the non-governmental sector and is very broad also with a substantial part of the economy, in particular with the Chamber of Municipal Economy, to have a second reading at the January session and thus relatively comfortable through the procedure of this law, otherwise there is a risk that this will not be the case. It's not just the work. The problem is that we have opened 19 procedures, pretrial and even pre-trial proceedings, violations of the European Union directives, which are addressed by the environmental law. In addition to the introduction of the bailout system, we also definitively regulate waste management. We also arrange what to do in the case of illegally disposed waste and so on. Many areas are addressed through this law and it would be really useful for Slovenia to adopt this law before the elections or during this format of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Yuri Lep will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, a nice greeting from me, too. Minister, in September 2021, you tabled a new resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men for the period until 2030. The resolution in force has expired in 2020. This is one of the more important documents on equal opportunities, as it sets out objectives and measures and key policy makers to achieve equal opportunities for women and men in specific areas of life and social participation. At the end of September, however, the Government informed the National Assembly that the resolution in question was withdrawing from the procedure without explaining the reasons for that. Over the last few days, we have rediscovered the text of the resolution, which I expect you to propose to the National Assembly for decision again. One of the important objectives of this resolution is, inter alia, to strengthen and protect sexual and reproductive health, with particular emphasis on young people and adolescents and women in the postnatal period. However, when we compare the content of the resolution that you withdrew from the procedure in September and the new resolution, there is a significant difference. The new resolution adds the objective of respecting every new human life. To illustrate, I will first read the old version and then the new version. It's an old version. Strengthening and protecting sexual and reproductive health, with special emphasis on adolescents and adolescents and women in the postnatal period. There was a dot. In the new proposal you added, you deleted the dot and said - "and at the respect of every new human life". Minister, you know well that in the Republic of Slovenia free decision on the birth of children is provided after the Constitution. On the other hand, we also know your client’s position on this matter. And it is very dangerous and wrong if this supplemented part of the resolution that I have described to you is the result of either your views or the views of your client. After all, you're the Minister for Equal Opportunities. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why did you withdraw the text of the September resolution from the parliamentary procedure? What prompted the added value of respecting every new human life in the resolution on strengthening and protecting women’s sexual and reproductive health? And what does that actually mean? Please explain this to me. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Member Beauty, thank you for this question! The motion for a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men 2021 and 2030 is based on Article 15 of the Law on Equal Opportunities between Women and Men. This resolution sets out 22 objectives and 83 actions for key policy makers to achieve equal opportunities for women and men in six key thematic areas for the period 2021 to 2030. Thematic areas include labour relations, family relations, social protection, gender gaps and ensuring equal economic independence between women and men. The second thematic area – education, reducing gender inequalities and overcoming stereotyped social roles. The third thematic areas are health, improving women's health and reducing inequalities in health between men and women. The fourth thematic area is violence against women, prevention and the fight against all forms of violence against women and girls. The fifth thematic area is a decision-making area, which means promoting a balanced representation of women and men. And the sixth thematic area is foreign affairs, promoting gender equality and the realization of women's rights around the world. The objectives and actions of this resolution will be implemented on the basis of two-year periodic plans. The operators of the measures, which are the competent ministries, will define the activities to be carried out. It is important to stress that I, as Minister of Labour, am only the coordinator of all the actions and proposals, because the institutions of individual measures are individual ministries, as I have mentioned. The individual measures set out in this resolution are intended to improve the less favourable situation of those of the sexes in which of the six thematic areas in a worse situation – in view of the data and analyses set out in this resolution are mostly women – and to remove obstacles that preserve and maintain existing inequalities. The national programme is based on the current analysis of the state and assessment of progress in achieving gender equality in Slovenia, the findings of the evaluation of the implementation of the previous resolution adopted for the period 2015 to 2020, which, by the way, was carried out by two independent experts, as well as proposals from different stakeholders such as ministries, government services, NGOs, social partners, gender equality experts and experts. In this context, the resolution is one comprehensive strategic view that will somehow ensure equal opportunities for women and men between 2021 and 2030. I think that with some achievements or agreements, including at the level of the European Union, we are already achieving these objectives of the resolution because, among other things, we have achieved a general approach to the Pay Transparency Directive on the level of the European Union to reduce this gap or the pay gap between women and men for the same work or for the same job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. My friend, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I know that the resolution is the fruit of several ministries, but I have addressed you mainly because you are also the minister for equal opportunities, which is what it says back there. That's why this thing is meant to be. You actually said a lot, but you didn't answer my question. I'll try again. Your president, for example, said a while ago that it was to make the way to the raft difficult. This is one starting point that was said a few years ago. That's why I'd like to hear: Do you, as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, advocate the same position in the new motion for a resolution on equal opportunities between women and men? In your reply, I did not detect any clear definition and position on this. Otherwise, I have no doubt about these objectives and the measures for key policy makers, and I agree with you that this is a very common work. But clear definitions and attitudes towards this, which means very important values for a democratic society. Therefore, I would also like to remind you that if such a part of the text is added to the resolution, Mr Minister, which you intend to submit to the procedure, you will undermine the constitutional principle of free decision on the birth of children. If that's not the case, you have to give me the opposite answer, that's not the case. That's why the Minister would ask you very specifically. As a man as a father, I ask you: When do you think a new human life will come about — at birth or somewhere? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Fine, for this supplementary question. I can tell you that I'm not in charge of answering what you said last time. I think we have others responsible for this area to answer your specific question. However, I can say that in Slovenia the legal and constitutional consensus is clear and that there is no plan to interfere in any way with this constitutional and legal consensus on this. The objectives and actions of this gender equality strategy will, of course, be implemented on the basis of two-year periodic plans, which will be the bearers of measures, I repeat once again. The Ministry of Labour is only the coordinator of this resolution, because in fact we have here, as you rightly said, the Equal Opportunities Sector; between women and men. We are the co-ordinator, other agents of action, and these are the competent ministries, but they will define activities to implement them. And the individual measures defined in this resolution are intended to improve the less favourable situation of those of the sexes in which of the six thematic areas in a worse situation that we have stated in the first part of the response, namely working relations, family relations and social protection, education, health, violence against women, decision-making places and foreign affairs. According to the resolution, the data presented and the analysis presented are, of course, as we both have found, mostly women; and at the same time removing obstacles that preserve and maintain existing inequalities. Equality between men and women is an extremely horizontal theme, which is being addressed by all departments. The national programme is based on the current analysis of the state of play and the assessment of progress on gender equality in Slovenia, the findings of the evaluation of the implementation of the previous resolution for the period 2015 to 2020, which, as I mentioned, was carried out by an independent expert, and on proposals made by different stakeholders, such as ministries and government services, NGOs, social partners, gender equality experts and experts. The measures set out in this resolution, however, seek to improve the situation of women and men; in particular in employment, education, health – and I also mean the reproductive health that you stress most – the social situation; in all areas where gender gaps or differences still exist [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space mag. Andrei Vissiak. My friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings to the ministers, especially to my Minister, Mr. Vrtovac, but of course to all those present in the Chamber! You know, Mr. Minister, we repeat ourselves every month, month after month, about this lovely enchanted Ormož-Ptuj road, Ormož-Hajdin, whatever we call it. Here I am using the institution of the oral question of Members, which is the only weapon of Members, of course we still have written form, but that is all we have, we have no other influence. I'd say this about the road. From the optimism that I was building in the spring, I came to a pure pessimism about our fast road, because things that were going on or going on in a year simply didn't show any bright spot at the end of this tunnel building this road. A weak month ago, Mrs Mojca Žnidarič also asked about this road and there are still uncertainties. Again, I dare ask myself, for for those of us who live in Ormož and beyond, this is a vital question, regardless of all the other things. For decades we have been waiting for the start of the construction of this road and unfortunately there have been complications. No building permit was issued at the second section of Gorišnica-Markovci. The complications also occurred with the tenderers. But the fact is, the road is not built, and only with hope can we mature when it will begin at all. From what we hear, there is now also a problem in the first section, where there is already a building permit, we simply cannot explain it to people. When can we finally expect a building permit for the section of Gorišnica-Markovci? Or where do the problems arise if the permit has already been issued so that the construction does not begin? If the permit has not yet been issued, what are the reasons? Is the construction contractor already selected for the section from Ormož to Markovec? If so, when will the construction begin? If it's not, what's the reason? According to your optimized route S4 is already placed in construction so that the inhabitants of the Lower Podravje will also be connected to the highway cross? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wrotec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I agree with the Member that this is dragging like the yoke of a snake. It is money, we started with all the procedures, even on your initiative, when we sat with Dars a year and a half ago, we started with a public invitation to tender. The invitation to tender is essentially at the end, only in the stage of issuing an offer between different tenderers. But while we are still engaged in obtaining a building permit or this phase, with the very negative opinions of the Department of Nature Protection, it is essentially totally unrelated to inviting participants to issue an offer. Thus, the Markovci-Gorišnica section is subject to the procedure for obtaining a building permit in an integrated procedure. In the process, negative opinions from Arsa, and in particular the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature, were also obtained from the environmental impact report. The Department of Nature Protection in its opinion highlights unacceptable cumulative influences due to the construction of the section of Gorišnica-Ormož and also affects the section of Markovci-Gorišnica, according to this part where a building permit has already been issued. It also highlights the impact and problem on the part of Gorišnica–Ormož. This is surprising to me, too, because this is why we could start doing this first part, but then I don't know how we could finish it. I only know one thing, it was also pointed out by my colleague Mojc that Dars had conducted procedures with the Department of Nature Protection, that they had done and submitted a study, selected the contractor and all things; but this, as I have data, was not enough. And it is now being re-examined to see what else needs to be done to protect birds; if I am not mistaken, birds in one small section are a problem. And in this regard, studies and studies are now being written so that the Department of Nature Protection can say that it's okay. Why it's like that and why it's dragging like that, I can't say. But Dars has the money to build this work and we can start building as soon as we get from the Department of Nature Protection all the approvals that are needed. A number of meetings have already been held on this subject; also at meetings at the Department of Nature Protection in Maribor, members of the Dars administration attended. I know they wrote a study, got a performer, but there was still something wrong with this study, and it's being supplemented. That's the last piece of information. With regard to the route that continues then, Markovci–Ptuj is said to say that this route has not yet been placed in the space and that the Interdepartmental Working Group coordinates the solution in the process which will then be led by the Ministry of Environment and Space. And there's no consensus here. The last meeting was the 23rd. 11th, where it'll go. The closest is an optimized route, with which some congregations also agree, and they feel that this optimisation would be most cost-effective and even the most acceptable. This is the last meeting of the 23rd. The 11th essentially ended with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Dear Member, indeed, the building permit for the section from Markovci to Ormož has already been issued. And in the process of issuing the building permit from Markovts to Gorišnica, the Ministry leading the procedure of this State Spatial Plan received a negative opinion from the Department of Nature Protection. I must say that the Department of Nature Protection is an independent institution, not an organ in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space, led by the Director. Opinions are made by the regional units of this institution at their best professional level. As a result, the Institute for Nature Protection and the ILO invited the investor to complete the documentation in accordance with the requirements of this opinion, which we expect by 21 January 2022 when the final date is. And I believe that we will finally find a solution. It is true, however, that the remedial measures have been complemented by cumulative effects also in the section where there is already a legal building permit. This does not mean that there is no legal building permit. It is, but additional measures need to be implemented due to cumulative impacts. I can only assure you that, as Minister, I will do everything in terms of coordination and these different views and harmonisation of opinions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivanus, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yeah, because I already know what you're saying, but people don't know, people don't understand where it's stuck. As you said, the two problems that arose last year were centuries of water and birds. To help you with the birds, it's a black stork and a bellorept. But people don't understand that they have to retreat to birds. People just don't accept that people have to avoid birds. It would be more possible for birds to be able to elude humans. That's a fact. But with all due respect for nature, I am further interested, Mr. Minister Vrtovec: You said he was 19. 11. it is a crucial date for these additions to the study on 19 November, as far as I was aware of this date. Now you're saying it's not yet. I don't know. And there's something else I want to know: Was he in all this time, in the entire chronology of the road that has been dragging for about 20 years, the Institute for Environmental Protection in the game all the time? Has he shown up at the moment in this recent period? That's what I want to know. And I will also give you information that some people have already criminalized the Environmental Protection Agency, because they simply do not understand what economic damage is done to this nebula or Lower Podrava by blocking the construction of a fast road. If you can still answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Rightfully, they've been denounced. If harm is done and it is proven that they did it on purpose, then that is the decision. As for my cooperation with the Maribor Department of Nature Protection, I cannot comment on this. I don't know if it was cooperation or how it was; but I do know that Dars is working with them right now, that they have already made certain comments on the study that they did at the time to be able to carry out. Where this moment is the very story of today, I don't know, but I can say that Dars is always working with them and trying to come up with a beautiful, dignified way of reaching consensus on birds, especially as regards birds. On November 19th, it was one cut-off date, but I think that the following was another important date when they had to submit something else and so on. For this study of bird exposure, even a company is hired to do so, to try to obtain consensus in a normal way and then to start building only. The first stage of public procurement, this procedure is in fact already under way, is at the end and as soon as the building permit is completed, this contract will be completed. It is no longer a problem of public procurement, we are making a public contract in parallel with the acquisition of a building permit. Right after the building permit that we all want to start building in the spring. It's hard for me to talk about it, too, because I didn't realize there would be any complications. And we could at least start building the first part. But the effects are also due to this on the first part. And I don't think it's right for us to stick to the end. There will be no solution, but a creative attempt must be made to shape the story. I believe, however, that the local people of Ormož and the work of Prleje, from around Ptuj, are quite embarrassed because they suffer the mobility of people, as well as not least the economy and all the potential that Ormož has with the economy. There are opening new investments like Cartago and so on. And the connectivity is bad, it's a fact, but it's not responsible for this, and it's not the area, and it's the area, but it's known where the culprit is, that the proceedings are being pulled.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And Minister Visjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	Yeah, in those few seconds. Dear Member, no, the Department of Nature Protection is not the first time in this process that an integrated building permit has been issued. The Department of Nature Protection has already participated in the spatial placement of the premises, that is to say in the drafting of the State Spatial Plan for this part. We are now in the phase of issuing an integrated building permit. It is not possible, believe me, with some political pressure from ministers from a negative opinion it is not possible to draw a positive opinion. This can only be done in such a way that the manufacturer of the documentation and, of course, the institution can agree on and harmonise with regard to all the remedial measures in order to ensure that the wolf is whole and whole on one side. This is said to be a road and that natural standards will be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much both ministers for these pessimistic answers. There's nothing else I can say. Still, I was gonna ask, but this time is flying so hard, it's amazing. However, I will try to ask in writing Mr. Vrtovac: With regard to this fast road, has the Republic of Croatia shown any interest in this construction? Were there any discussions at his ministry or at the government or not? For this is a rich Medjimurje, the Chakotay, Varaždin, this road would have a very good effect on them. If there was anything sooner or later, I don't know, I'll ask it in writing. I'm just going to finish because I don't believe in the debate on the questions that have been sent, because they all kind of fall apart. I will, of course, give the initiative to hold a debate, but I do not believe in it. We will see what will happen to this road, and we will still be doing Members of the Ormož pressure on everything that is possible to start doing it once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Brickler King. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present guests, especially from the ministries, and all present! Honourable Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr. Janez Cigler King! In October 2021, 66 thousand 654 unemployed persons were registered at the Institute, of which 39 thousand 923 are long-term unemployed. Of these, 8 000 809 are long-term unemployed. It is therefore for persons with disabilities who have limited or remaining working capacity following the decision of the STIZ, e.g. persons with disabilities III. Category or disability II. categories. And when more than 12 months have been applied for employment at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, usually – I say normally – they agree to compensation for disability at the ZPIZ, this so-called waiting for employment in the relevant post following this decision. Or they just land among the long-term unemployed. I also have before me a decision on invalidity of PPIZ from the citizen and elector from my constituency, i.e. from invalid III. the categories, as well as the decision on the amount of EUR 324,32, recognised as compensation. And these are his so-called basic livelihoods after the end of unemployment benefits. I believe that we are both of the same opinions, Your Honor, that this amount, which is even much smaller than monetary social assistance, is too small. Despite our low unemployment rate, we have failed to reduce the number of people with disabilities from the long-term unemployed and especially the long-term unemployed in recent years. This is probably also due to employers’ thinking that stereotypes predominate that workers with disabilities tend to be more difficult than other employees. I don't agree with that on my own. That's why I want to know: What will you do in order to solve the problem, since it is illogical that people with disabilities who are no longer able to find a suitable job are waiting at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment or for the compensation of ZPIZ and are unable to retire and to receive a normal amount for survival; while some of these 66,000 unemployed people are looking for all possible loopholes to avoid employment and receive even higher state transfers, such as the compensation for disability after the ZPIZ in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr Lenart, for this question. Initially, I would like to explain that the disability benefits are part of the pension scheme and the same as pensions depend on previous insurance, supplementary pension periods and the basis of which contributions have been paid, which affects all differences in the amount of individual benefits. The amount of compensation also depends on the age at which the disability occurred and on the legal status of the disabled worker, whether he lost his employment on his own terms or on the basis of regular cancellation by the employer or whether he was registered with the Slovenian Employment Institute. In view of the above, the amounts of compensation may be very different and, in certain cases, very low as you have pointed out, stressing that unemployed workers with the same limitations and the recognised category of disability receive higher compensation than employed disabled workers and disabled workers who have a termination of the employment contract as a result of their decision or will, but have a lower rate of compensation than those in which termination of the employment contracts takes place without their fault. I would also like to point out that disability benefits are not in the nature of the pension, but are justified by working persons with disabilities with the remaining working capacity. They are intended to cover the loss of income due to disability, not to compensate for the total loss of income, as the insurance case is also not an inability to generate income, but rather an inability to maintain a job, a job or a full-time job. It is therefore necessary to take this fact into account in drawing up the level of disability benefits and to establish a system that will be conducive to the maintenance of the employment of disabled persons and, on the other hand, to the employment of disabled persons. It is therefore essential for disabled persons to be provided with a job and work opportunities, with the need to strike an appropriate balance between social security and the willingness of people with disabilities to keep their jobs or to re-employment. It makes sense, both in terms of the pension and disability system and in terms of working persons with disabilities themselves, to maintain employment or to be active in the labour market, as this also ensures their social security and social inclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much for those answers, Minister of State. I have to say, we're here somehow, as it were, on the same line. We are both aware of this problem, and it is clear that this compensation for disability is, of course, intended or we believe that it will be for a short time. But yet somehow we have a considerable human resources gap from this point of view. Economists simply say that it is impossible to get the appropriate personnel, the appropriate profiles and so on, while we have a job to motivate the employer to employ the disabled more. It seems to me, however, that in some way employers cannot approach this step in order to stop being afraid to hire a disabled person, and thus, of course, the institution is not better able to solve these jobless cases, the unemployed. So, solve the issue of providing the economy with adequate personnel, while those working with disabilities who are unable to find any more suitable work are somehow helped to come from this dead end. I remember that we talked about this a while ago, too, that it might be necessary to shake these people once again in the institution and find out who they can no longer be and who are still capable of the rest of the workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr Lenart, for an additional question. I would point out that the Ministry's work is constantly focused on the preparation of measures that ensure better social and material security for all working persons with disabilities. The country, as you said, is obliged to provide its citizens with social security, both through the insurance system and through the social welfare system. Social security can thus also be ensured in the context of social security benefits with financial social assistance and its particular form, extremely cash social assistance and social security allowances. This is the institution which is specifically intended for socially disadvantaged persons, with the status of socially disadvantaged persons being identified in the light of the Social Protection Benefits Act and the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. At the Ministry of Labour, we are aware of both the problems of disability insurance and the social situation of beneficiaries of low benefits from disability insurance. Because according to our experiences – what you have stressed – most people want to take responsibility for their lives and want to work, even if they do, I can say, any limitations, deficits, but they want to be on the labour market, to work. We are therefore seeking to take such measures to ensure greater social security for all who need it, including beneficiaries of disability benefits, whose amounts are, we agree, often too low. The so-called 2019 mini-retirement reform has, among other things, resulted in higher social security for beneficiaries of disability, widow's and family's pensions, as well as disability benefits. The increase in the dose percentage also had a positive impact on the dose of disability benefits, in particular by increasing the dose of disability benefit in the event of unemployment. All I can say is that in this government's mandate, the social situation improved for beneficiaries of disability benefits by regular harmonisation, in accordance with the system law, as well as by a two-percent harmonisation in December 2020. Also, the unemployed working disabled received twice the solidarity allowance for pensioners as well as the annual allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will ask the Health Minister Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we continue where we have already finished, do we not, somewhere in the last question, regrettably, although I am aware that you are dealing with these personnel issues daily, this is now the essence, but in this period perhaps more of the expression comes to what has not happened in previous years. Mainly, the lack of medical personnel based on the findings of the Court of Auditors, on which I would like to base, which was published in December this year, but which has a similar denominator as the previous reports of the Court of Auditors that have been carried out. However, I must point out that all these reports come about somehow from 2008 until today, so that all governments are faced. According to the recently published report of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Health and the Medical Chamber have not taken care to identify the actual needs of doctors, nor to identify the reasons for the lack of specific specialties. Thus, of course, they could not see to it that the reasons for the lack were successfully addressed. Today, we are facing a severe shortage of health workers and the mass departures of workers from activities, which will of course affect the extension of waiting species, which is already so problematic. What measures, Mr. Secretary, do you foresee to resolve this situation? How will you deal with the pressing problems of lack of health care, since health care, especially in the light of the Coronavirus epidemic, is just before the break? See, the Court of Auditors has prepared five corrective actions, 11 recommendations. All these health supervisory institutions, including the Ministry of Health, the Government and all of us, have consistently warned about how to address the shortcomings, how to set up an organisational system to achieve better organisation, greater productivity, reduction of waiting lines, and ultimately, that we also burden the healthcare staff that burns down today. In fact, we all wonder: Who in Slovenia actually runs this health care so that somehow we cannot achieve this improved state? Of course, doctors, medical staff, you're one of these kinds. This profession keeps trying and brings us a plate of this solution. Why aren't we implementing them? After all, look, we are out of line, many countries take this into account and are much better than we are, and in the end, Serbia has overtaken us according to these WHO-led criteria. That's what we're wondering: Why don't we make it?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members, Mr Jože Lenart! Thank you very much for all these questions and, of course, for the continuation of the debate we have or have it over and over again from the point of view of the organisation of health care. It is true that public health is plagued by human resources problems. We do know, however, that no human resources problems arise overnight, but they are, of course, a reflection of the long - standing face - to - face or emergence of this problem. As you know, I was the first of the directors of general hospitals in May 2018 to point out and say that the matter is serious in this area and that additional systemic measures and efforts must be made to ensure medium- and long-term sustainability. When we talk about staff and when we do surveys, for what reason the healthcare staff leaves public health, there are always working conditions first, secondly there is organization and organisational climate and third, of course, pays. Then there are other factors, but they follow each other on a regular basis. As regards the area of human resources planning, especially health-care providers, it is crucial for the Ministry to ensure the sustainability of the health system in order to put this in a sustainable manner in the long term. Of course, the Court of Auditors' findings need to be followed and we have therefore carefully examined the recommendations and will, of course, use them to improve or improve this area. The Court's response report to the findings of the Court of Auditors, which covers the past period, does not yet cover today's period, we are preparing and focusing in particular on the strategic aspects of planning, including the necessary provision of relevant data for decision-making at the country level, and so on. The deadline for submitting the response report is 31. 12th and by this deadline we will also prepare a report accordingly. In addition to the preparation of long-term orientations, the Ministry has also provided a number of important measures over the past year to improve healthcare coverage. Thus, in the project management of the public health service network, we have already produced an assessment of the situation and a projection of the needs of doctors for various specialties. Among the most important changes in the planning of doctoral specialisations are the establishment of a 5-member committee. This committee consists of representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, the National Institute for Public Health and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. On the basis of a proposal from the Committee, the Minister of Health may then establish specific types of specialisations for physicians at national level or for individual health operators. As you know, this year we have also adopted the Health Emergency Action Act, which introduced an allowance for the selection of family medicine specialisations of 20 per cent of the basic salary, where manko is the largest at present. At the same time, the same law also introduced funding for specialisations in clinical psychology, because we know that we are seriously short of clinical psychologists and that at the moment only a third of what the profession says Slovenia would need them. With the same law, we have also introduced scholarships for medical professions, so an invitation for 30 scholarships for medical students and 70 medical scholarships will be issued by the end of this year. At the same time, let me say that this year, we agreed with both medical universities to increase the number of admissions, so at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana for the direction of medicine there are an additional 40 places available, at the Faculty of Medicine Maribor an additional 10. In addition, at the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor a new direction of dental medicine is being opened, where there will be 20 places of entry. There are still a number of measures, but perhaps later in response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenart, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Yes, of course, you responded more to what you are now putting out in the short term. But I am asking more about this strategy, even though we are still in this epidemic. An important area for this transparency and better organisation and, of course, productivity, which is also particularly known in the economy, is that we need rational and efficient information systems, which have already achieved that expected breakthrough in our health with an e-cubic. Unfortunately, everything else is still based on fragmentation and these partial programmes, but they do not provide central guidance and data for spine-related actions, so-called e-passengers or central patient data registers, which we would expect. We have also recently witnessed this disclosure of this situation at the Oncology Institute, where the inefficient work of external operators in this information area took place for years and years. In fact, all employees suffered practically in this system because they had no basis, no solution. In the end, however, patients were at risk. And in this area, we should really include and do more. I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for supplementing the question or for the additional question. I would take this opportunity to thank everyone for the fruitful debate and for the confirmation of two strategic laws. The first is the Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care, which was adopted at the beginning of the summer and the second is certainly the Law on Long-term Care. Finally, thanks for the Medical Services Act, which was adopted last week, because it is important to bring about changes to ensure sufficient sustainability and quality of healthcare activities in Slovenia. As far as the other strategic directions are concerned, I must admit that we are working hard, but we have not yet reached the end of the road on the standards and standards of all health profiles. Of course, the quality, safety and efficiency of certain health activities follow from this out. All of this must be based on real good data and analysis. And here I agree with you that adequate digitalisation is needed in the field of health, which will allow decision makers in real time. Because now the minister is collecting data three months ago or more. For this same reason, we have allocated €83 million to the Recovery and Resistance Plan for digitisation in health care. And this moment we are working together with the help of the European Commission on a strategy for digitisation in Slovenian health, because this must be strategically placed, as you said, there will be no finesse and similar as we have at this moment. There are still a few challenges ahead, but they are focused – I hope that I have managed to answer you correctly – in the direction you asked. Otherwise, when we are talking about strategic orientations, you know that before summer we have adopted or corrected the interpretation of the document on competences in the field of health care, which sets out a new strategy for the development of health technicians and paramedics in particular, thus allowing a number of programmes to be implemented. I believe that development, both professional and professional, for those healthcare workers in general, as well as health care. I am pleased that with all the profit groups in health care, I can say that this moment is more than an excellent time, and the same is true for all other partners in health. And only in this way, through constructive dialogue can we achieve what you asked in the question. I think we're on the right track, and I'm optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenart, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Of course, from all this discussion, multiple questions, as well as others, when I have listened to them today, it makes sense that there will be a broader public debate at one of the next meetings in this area, that you will finally present this strategy after these two years, which you are leading this ministry or government as such – you have already been two ministers. Look, 4 thousand euros have Western developed countries per capita, we're only 2,000 euros, and we're also giving less GDP for health, only 8 percent, remaining 10 to 11, and we're seeing this strategy of yours, how you're going to show a long-term health rescue strategy within this. I would like to make another such additional observation, because I think that these waiting types could be significantly better solved. Switzerland, a Swiss citizen on average less than once a year visits a doctor, Slovenian citizens four to six times, according to some data, of course it is also different in other countries, and I think we should also look for solutions from this conclusion that this is the problem. I would really like to see a broader debate in order for this area to be addressed in a comprehensive manner at one of the meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 15 December 2021, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the question of Minister of Infrastructure, Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac about three projects in the area of the fourth development axis. These are the new construction of the road between Cerkni and Hotavljaci with the tunnel under Kladje, the reconstruction of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija and the construction of the bypass of Lower Idrija. On 14 February 2006, the Minister of Transport took the initiative to draw up a national spatial plan for the construction of a state road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi, but the route has not yet been placed in space. During the 16 years a series of studies was produced, while the project was also stopped for several years. Finally, the Municipality of Cerkno, Municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane and Ministry of Infrastructure signed a special protocol on the further realization of road infrastructure on the part of the fourth development axis between Cerkni and Hotavljavi. The protocol also contains an accurate timeline. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. What was actually done in 2021? When can we expect the construction of this connection and the tunnel under Kladjem? For many years I have also advocated the reconstruction of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija, but only with the rebalancing of the state budget for 2022 has the project moved from the dead point when it was included in the 2022-2025 Development Programme Plan. Unfortunately, however, all the increased investments under this Development Programme Plan are planned only far beyond 2025. And a third project; this is the Lower Idrija undertaking, which was included as a new investment project years ago in the Development Programme Plan, which is an integral part of each of the state budgets, but with each budget, the start of the works or placement in the space is transferred to the next period. With the last balance of the budget for the period after 2025. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What will you do to speed up these three projects or to start implementing them? Thank you very much for your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The 4th Development Axis project, which connects Upper Sočje and Cerkljansko with Gorenjska through the Idrija-logic arm, as well as with central Slovenia, has been involved in substantial investments in the last period, as well as substantial new elements of the activity, which will then continue for sure in the future. Important projects on this axis are the Cerkno–Hotavlje road with the tunnel Kladje and the bypass of Lower Idrija. The route of the new road Cerkno-Hotavlje was considered in two corridors, the north as a new building and the south as a modernisation of the existing road connection. On the basis of the conclusion of the expert verification of feasibility of the variants, it was decided that the project would continue in the southern corridor, i.e. in the southern corridor where the reconstruction or upgrading of the existing road within the road area would take place. The spatial regulation of this road also follows the objectives of the National Transport Development Programme. What does that mean? This means that the modernisation of road connections is carried out as much as possible in an existing corridor or an update, and the existing road at a section where an appropriate standard cannot be ensured is linked outside the road area, which is an example of the implementation of this Kladje tunnel. It's the process. The envisaged deadline for the construction of the professional bases is the end of 2022, followed by a public decomposition, which is a new part, an introduction to the Government with the most appropriate solution and then the preparation of the State Spatial Plan itself. After all these activities have been carried out, the State Spatial Plan Regulation for this Road could be adopted in 2024. According to all the dynamics, it's just a new construction, 2024 this year. As for the Hotavlje-Cerkno road, we are indeed investing a lot, there is a lot of investment in this road, even now we have been in the Polish Valley itself, and I know that there is a lot of investment there. With both mayors, and Cerkne and Gorenje village - Poljane we have signed a protocol of activity so that cooperation takes place here. With regard to Želen–Lower Idrija, this section has so far not been defined by the development programme plan so that, in fact, all updates of this section have been carried out exclusively within the framework of regular investment works on the state road network, but by incorporating this project into the state budget, certain project tasks are already being prepared for this year to design the reconstruction of this section. But look, you also had to wait for this government to do it because we are listening to rural development. And given the dynamics of the investments set out in the plan, the resources for ongoing activities will be provided by reallocations within the programme, independent of the budget itself, because we have an NRP open for reconstruction itself. So already in the next year 2022 we will receive more investment in this part. With regard to the final question or the final part of your question. The government also – yes, yes – confirmed the route of the western bypass of Lower Idrija in 2015, which includes also 275 metres of tunnel and then the bridge over Idrija in the length of 70 meters as the most appropriate variant of the lower Idrija. During this time, at the time of the preparation of the professional foundation, there was also the construction of a potential route – you know that – because there is also a multi-house building at the end of the route. Re-checking the feasibility of this option is currently in the initial phase. The solutions must also be aligned with the congregation, with which – I must say – we work very well and have regular contacts, both personally and DRSI, we meet many times. A project task for the development of the environmental report and the spatial plan has also been confirmed. And at the beginning of the following year, I believe that an invitation to tender will be issued for the manufacturer of this dossier; not for the tendering documents themselves, but for the documentation in question. Thus, in 2022, the lower Idrija bypass would take a step further towards the railing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, would you like a word? Here, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I thank Minister Vrtovac for his answers. It's true. It's built between Cerkni and Hotaways. I myself took this route several times during the construction, because I do not always go to Ljubljana via Logatec, but sometimes also through Škofja Loko. But there's something in your eyes. It's not just you, it's practically all governments so far. As I said at the outset, the Minister of Transport took the initiative to draw up the State Spatial Plan in 2006 and runs for 16 years. I remember putting some routes within the highway cross, Radovljica – 10 or 11 years old, Trebnje – 10 or 12 years old. But here, this part in the less difficult part has been placed in space for 16 years. I appeal that you no longer have much time until the end of this mandate to speed up these preparations, as well as for Lower Idria, even six years from being included in the State Spatial Plan or in the Development Programme Plan. I hope that further progress will be made in modernising the 4th development axis in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Yeah, it's been 15 years since 2006. And as you can see, my political party has been in the ruling government for four years since then. Unfortunately, we've just started these procedures back, to a new one. And I believe we will take them as many as possible in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jura Ferrjan will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister of Finance! The new Income Act brings higher net wages to all those who work and create prosperity in Slovenia. A key change in this new law is to raise the overall relief from the existing €3 000 500 to €7 000 500 in 2025. Gradually, a raise of an additional thousand euros will facilitate each year. The burden of taxation also increases the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment while, of course, allowing for higher remuneration of workers. I am convinced that in the medium and long term, this also means less so-called brain drain abroad. I firmly believe that the greatest, if not the only assurance that pensions will be higher in the future, is that we have higher net wages today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša, also follows this through concrete measures. One of them is the novelty of the Income Law. This means more money in people's wallets, and in the next step the possibility and, of course, also higher consumption, and from this title also more taxes collected in state treasury. Dear Minister of Finance, in accordance with the above, I ask you: By how much will net wages increase in the expense of lower taxation to all those working and creating prosperity in Slovenia? I ask you for an illustration of the case of minimum wage, average wages and twice the average wage. I want to know: How will lower income tax work affect the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia? Does the Ministry of Finance have a projection or analysis by 2025? Dear Minister, the current government has great affection for Slovenian municipalities, which are the engine and driver of the development of our country. This is shown by the rise in the average, as shown by the provision of funds for needed investments and projects, also by field visits and the resolution of real problems. That's why I want to know: Will this amendment of the Income Act affect the revenue of Slovenian municipalities? If so, how? And in what way do you intend to replace a certain amount of revenue if there is a certain loss of revenue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared an amendment to the Income Act and has foreseen an increase in general relief in 2022 to EUR 4 000 500. This will give the recipient of the minimum wage more net at the same gross salary of € 160 per year, the recipient of the average salary of €260 and the recipient of the two-time average salary of €330 per year. This will be in 2022. However, it is stipulated in the law itself that the increase in general relief should continue in 2023, 2024 and 2025. In other words, we are talking about a four-year increase in general relief, each year for a thousand euros. And this will mean that in 2023, when the total benefit of EUR 5 000 500 will be paid, the minimum wage recipient will receive 320 euros of higher net income per year, the average wage recipient – 520 and the twice-average wage recipient – EUR 660 higher net income with the same gross salary. In the case of EUR 6 000 500 in 2024, these amounts increase to EUR 480 for the recipient of the minimum wage, the recipient of the average wage – EUR 780 higher net income and the recipient of the twice-average salary – EUR 990 higher income. This then continues in 2025, with a total relief of EUR 7 000 500. At that time, the recipient of the twice-average salary of EUR thousand 320 more, the recipient of the average salary of thousands of euros and the recipient of the minimum wage of EUR 640 higher net income per year. In other words, net wages will increase as a result of the increase in relief and relief every year until 2025 or including 2025. In fact, the government is pursuing the goal of not taxing those incomes that are essential for life. Of course, general relief has an effect, for the first time, on the overall financial impact and, secondly, also on the financial revenues of the municipalities, which means the following. By no means will the municipalities have less revenue due to this relief, because under the legislation itself and already, in the event of a minor inflow from income, this deficit replaces the state budget. The municipalities in the same or, as you are, the honourable Member will say, the better because the average is also increasing. Of course, we have taken account of the static account on one side, on the other hand we have also taken into account the so-called dynamic account. The dynamic account includes an increase in gross social product by 2025 or including 2025. And on this basis, we see that revenue is actually going to be significantly higher, we can say, in the coming years after these calculations. For example, according to the ESI methodology in 2021 – 3 billion 856 million from value added tax. In 2025 - 5 billion 600. On income – 2 billion 700 in 2021, 3 billion 151 in 2025. This means that as the gross social product increases, employment will also increase the revenue of the state budget. And, of course, because of this relief in its entirety, overall budget revenues will not have a negative impact to the extent that may be shown at any time. In short, the finances are stable. We expect that the finances will remain stable for the future. And this relief will not in any way jeopardize this stability in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Comrade Ferjan, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Mr Vice President, thank you again for your word. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answers, your explanations. But let me just make this a little bit more. In view of your implementation, it is possible to conclude that at least those on the minimum wage, on average wages, after the adoption of the new Income Act of 2025, if we somehow simplify, at the annual level, on the basis of lower taxation compared to 2021, that is, existing legislation, will earn about one additional net salary at the annual level, which I think is very important. I am also pleased that the Slovenian municipalities that have driven development will not be deprived of this account, but that, of course, the Slovenian municipalities continue to be encouraged by raising averages as well as by other laws that allow investment at the local level. At the same time, I would like to express on the one hand the misunderstanding that it is those who in the past, for example, have put billions of euros in banks, who have given the elites, who are now opposed to this amendment to the law. The same applies to those who, somehow by definition of their existence, should defend better conditions for workers, which, of course, can also include higher incomes, higher wages; however, they object. I'm specifically thinking about unions here. Dear Minister, allow me to conclude my complement with this question or addition: Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Ministry of Finance, intend to continue this fiscal policy in the future? So fiscal policy, which gives more money to people so they can spend more and, of course, also fill the state treasury through this instrument. Will you continue to promote fiscal policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the supplementary question. I'd like to answer here the following way. The first is, if we are talking about European fiscal policy, and we are following this last but not least, I can see that it has changed significantly in recent years. And this fiscal policy actually promotes investment, promotes development, promotes full employment, says people's employment. Here is the difference, and here are also the amended fiscal rules frameworks, or it is already being discussed at European level between financial ministers. Second, this government serves people, and this government is here because of people, and these people, of course, also need to be provided with an adequate material basis for a better, better life. And it is certainly one of the measures that means better and better quality of life. I am not saying that only money is what makes people happier and contented, but I certainly think that the quality of life must also be ensured, I stress – also in a material way. And as long as we have full employment, economic growth, as long as we also invest in facilities of higher quality, will, of course, increase incomes and actually make it possible. I think that with economic growth, investments must maintain such a fiscal policy that allows people to earn more income. And if we look at the revenue from taxes this year, in 2021, according to 2019, then we can find that they are increased by 7.5%. This income, if not otherwise, needs to be given to people in a certain way and we are actually doing it. With fiscal policy, we do not want to affect the reduction of economic growth, the reduction of employment, but on the contrary, also through investments, including the fact that this fiscal policy is also followed by monetary policy. We want to increase the income of people, the income of individuals and, of course, also to ensure the stability of the financial and economic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Ambassador Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. That this government wants to subject itself to society and state institutions as a whole is something it doesn't really hide. Similar harmful trends, often in the form of direct or indirect privatisation, can also be seen in higher education. Thus, in November of this year, one set of concessions for private higher education institutions amounting to EUR 700,000, which are obviously stolen to the extent of certain specific private education institutions. What a coincidence, most of these institutions are in an influential circle around the SDS party. They say that the concessions awarded by the Ministry of Education are based on an analysis of the situation in the labour market by 2035, which is a document to be drawn up by the Ministry of Labour. But when the press knocked on the Ministry of Labour's door and asked for this analysis, they were told that he was still in processing. How, therefore, can the Ministry of Education issue private concessions, for certain programmes already being implemented within or within specific public institutions, or at least within a public network, and this refers to an analysis that has not yet been completed? It only seems to me that we are dealing with classically tied trade, that Mrs Kustec, Prime Minister Janez Janša, has promised something in exchange for servicing his client's interests and interests after the transfer of public funds into private pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ambassador Kordish, I didn't understand your question, so I don't know exactly what you want. But I'll tell you what the situation is. Life goes on and with it also needs new forms of knowledge and also new profiles of employees. And the responsible country follows that. This is also followed by a reliable, responsible economy, a responsible labour market. We have been facing the problem for several years, we are still meeting, and this problem is actually becoming a rakrana of the entire Slovenian society, that we have certain profiles of employees or educated people who do not find their jobs; and more and more of these needs, which require certain profiles of educated people, are not able to offer them. Or even more, the system successfully educates them, and then these profiles disappear and do not serve the needs of the labour market in the country that has educated them free of charge. In the light of this and, in particular, and only because of this, of course, the response to this situation is responsible if we want to have a healthy society and also a healthy functioning country forward, by looking for legally strong and well-founded ways to do so. I will read to you how many concessions we have so far granted in this country and when. In 1995 – one for tourism, 1996 – one for 1998 – 3, 2000 – one for 2004, 2006 – 5 for concessions, 2007 – 6 for first and 9 for second, because we know that this was already the time of the Bologna study; and then 14 years, 14 years without one grant. A period when we don't have enough computers, when we don't have enough health workers, when we don't have enough doctors and other profiles. When, in fact, public, accredited institutions, higher education institutions, their programmes are able to do their best. And when we have independent higher education institutions that have content-accredited programmes as well as adequately rehabilitated people, which is not simple, and neither are the needs for employment, then the answer of the responsible country can only be that it calls for education. We are talking about concessions in the field of social gerontology, health care, bionics, modern manufacturing engineering, digital arts and practices, environmental management, transport logistics management, environmental protection and ecotechnology, media and journalism, smart city management, polymer technology. And now you tell me who's doing someone a favor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Apparently you, Madam Minister, are doing a favor to Mr Janez Janša, the largest ruling party to build its own para-state in orbit around the party. You say you're signing concessions for private higher education institutions because people get educated and then they run across the border. If I take this argument of yours as you have given it, even more concessions and even more study programmes, with unchanged invariants on the labour market, will only mean more personnel, which we will educate publicly, and then it will escape us. That argument of yours doesn't hold. Furthermore, I also find it difficult to believe that you are seriously discussing and responding to the profiles that you are supposed to need in this society, but if the analysis you are referring to does not really exist or is not yet completed for the call for additional private funding. Even if it were, it would make sense to develop public infrastructure and public education rather than subsequently to feed private ones. And here we are dealing with a very obvious partial motivation, with the preservation of private interests of €700,000. After all, as the University of Ljubljana has said, it has been quite accurate to diagnose that, as far as the media, journalism and health care are concerned, we are already training quite enough staff. The problem arises in the labour market, which does not provide the graduates with adequate conditions for employment, and therefore escapes. It then continues and concludes that these concessions are obviously fueled by a desire to channel public funds from public universities to private institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	Yes, I'm going to make some reasonable explanations, and then another comment at the end. The conditions to be met by applicants for the award of concessions are very clear and transparent. All under the same conditions, if they meet them, can run. Also the criteria for selection with all weights, also here, transparent, clear, based on reasonable, rational criteria, this is done. It is our duty, if we want to go to a transparent, legal state, to ensure the highest level of quality and competitive education story – including at the level of higher education – to all who meet the conditions in the same way. Public sector, public works, public universities more than work. At the last call, we have allocated additional resources not only for the implementation of the programme, including for infrastructure needs to those colleges that have understood and have literally sought out from the five strands how additional posts could be entered; and they can carry out the study process at the limits of their capabilities. But this country, this society needs even more than that. And here's the call. Those who qualify and who can do so will do so. I'm not going to let you, not even saying anything, or implying any kind of politics, any kind of domestic approach like you imagined, not to the system personally. If you're going this way, you can, and then we can only be happy that you're here where you are. And obviously, by how you're doing and what you're saying, you have no contact with the reality of what the current need is and what very problematic situation in this country's highest-skilled personnel is right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate in plenary on the response of Minister Kustec to my question. For a very simple reason, Minister Kustec did not answer the question. She found herself in a flossule. How serious it is to implement this call to channel public money into private higher education institutions, but also to say that it was very happy to stutter in answer to my question. She says that the invitation to tender is conducted in a transparent, clear, reasonable, rational manner and that in Levica we are the ones who would be doing something domestically. Well, let's see how this looks transparent, clear, reasonable and rational. I'll read the summary from the Night's Watch. At the Press College, that's it. One of the areas covered by this call was the silence on the issues concerning the number of students they have in this direction. However, it is evident from the records of the Ministry that only 19 students in the 1st year were awarded 60 seats this year; and nothing at the 2nd stage where they also awarded 60 seats. The latter is interesting in the light of the fact that State Secretary for Higher Education Mitja Slavinec, who was also appointed by the Government as the chairman of the Commission, who will open up the incoming applications without public presence, added the invitation to tender overnight in a way that the number of places to be registered for both studies increased by about 50 places to a total of 80 places. And you, Madam Minister, will be teaching here about transparent, clear, reasonable and rational. This country has become the concept of domesticity and staffing, influence by friendly ties in the interest of the largest ruling party, which is neither immune nor higher education. These concessions, which are actually awarded under the same criteria, but the criteria – we will only give you money if you are a private higher education institution that does not already have a concession – bear witness to this sufficiently eloquently. And because I do not want public education to continue to be dismantled because I do not want millions and millions from the public education budget to be taken out of the public education budget to keep private schools in the orbit of the SDS party, I want a plenary debate at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Andrej Shirtzl and Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present, both ministers! My question will not be addressed to EPP either, but I would really like some answers. The law governing long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance is finally adopted. However, as adopted, it raises more questions than answers. The impression is that it would be better not to be accepted, to put it back into discussion, to be finalized, to an expert debate. The financial obligations imposed by the law are undoubtedly extensive and will be burdened by the following governments, no matter when they enter into force. Therefore, the financial structure of such an important and financially difficult law should be clear, tailored and consistent with all stakeholders. However, this law does not meet the above conditions. Without adequate financial structure, it can also destroy what is already working. Unfortunately, adopting a law does not regulate this long-term care, it is like a framework without content. Clearly, you do not want to tell people something — the inevitable truth — that the implementation of the law will cost something to cost. You do not want to say clearly and loudly that this law introduces a mandatory contribution to insurance, but you are somehow covering it up and transferring it to future governments. Article 132 of the Law states that up to 30 are required. 6. 2025 adopt a new, special law on compulsory insurance for long-term care. So three and a half years later, this is for almost one government mandate. Article 132 is also related to Article 48, which states that the primary source of funding is the compulsory long-term insurance (DO) and Article 52 of the Act, which states that the conditions of compulsory insurance for the DO, the basis for the payment of contributions and the contribution rate, the income and expenditure of compulsory insurance for the DO, the way in which contributions are charged and paid and the debtors are determined by a specific law. The Special Law also lays down the collection and allocation of other funds referred to in Article 48(6). In other words, they are not related to the Long-Terms Act nor [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr Vojko Starović, thank you very much for these questions, that we are of course trying to further answer and explain the dilemmas. First of all, I would like to thank all those who, in the legislative process of adopting this law, have worked constructively both with comments, initiatives and critics, because I believe that this has given the law an important additional framework and a basis for realisation. By adopting the Long-Term Care Act in the Republic of Slovenia, we laid the groundwork for establishing a system of long-term care and a new pillar of social security. That is why, of course, I cannot agree that this is a framework without content. The contents are here, and this is the most important part of the law. The Long-Term Care Act brings an important upgrade to the current regime and, of course, enables the long-term care of those most in need, namely, those with long-term care rights will also receive services and will, of course, be financed from public resources. This represents an important financial burden for those who need long-term care, not just for them, because many of these people have been affected by poverty; also for their families and, of course, local communities. In this way, citizens will receive comparable needs for comparable rights, long-term care in four forms is possible, i.e. long-term care in the institution, long-term care at home, long-term care with the help of a family assistant and remuneration as a compensation. In addition, two new services are being introduced, namely e-services and self-sustainment services, which will make an important contribution to ensuring that those who have the right to these services live as long as possible in the home environment and thus have a quality and human life worth living, regardless of the handicap or the threat posed by the needs or the reduction of their ability and resulting in their rights from long-term care. For the solutions provided by the Long-Terms Act, it was calculated that in 2022 we needed 205 million euros, in 2023 - 374 million euros, in 2024 - 558 million euros, and in 2025 when the law was in operation to the full, 744 million euros. At this point in time, we devote practically half of the European countries to long-term care and, of course, with such a contribution from public resources, we achieve only a European average. Since the law was suspended or initiated under amendments in the process of adoption, future funding also follows this delay. The means of ensuring rights under the Long-Term Care Act until 2025 will be applied gradually and guaranteed from existing sources from which certain services or long-term care rights are already provided. For 2022 it is therefore necessary to ensure the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to higher public resources, the financial burdens on those who need long-term care and their family members will, of course, be lower as a result, which is of paramount importance. By 30 June 2025, when the rights under the Long-Term Care Act are fully guaranteed, a special law on compulsory long-term care insurance will have to be enforced. This will, in the case of other sources referred to in Article 48 of the Law, determine how long-term collection of the necessary resources is to ensure long-term care. I'm sorry, I was a little too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you. I do. The Long-Terms Act undoubtedly introduces a new contribution to compulsory insurance, but neither the height nor the obligors are assigned. Who will be burdened — an economy or an individual? What will be the basis for the payment of contributions, at what level will the contribution rate be introduced, and will the budget be burdened by this? Are there projections of income and expenditure of compulsory insurance for long-term care? And if not, why not? I'm also interested in: Will these 16 million, which are intended to raise wages for workers in care homes, be included? From the Annex to the Recovery and Resistance Plan for Slovenia, we can see in Annex 2, that 79 million is earmarked from European funds and only 11 million from the budget. Indeed, long-term care is one of the pillars of social rights, 20 of Europe's social rights. And it's right that we went this way, not to get me wrong. But if there's no structure, if we don't fill it, it's hard to imagine how it's going to go forward, so please fill in this box with digits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much for the words and thank you very much to Mr Starović for the question. The first thing I'd like to say is that it's not a framework without content. The contents are visible, you just have to look at them. The framework may be less present here, but the content is actually in the services that will be performed for older people and which this government has foreseen for the first time in so many years; and, of course, only later will these things come to pass, even in 2022, because the state budget also foresees 146 million. Here we must count that certain services are also financed by health insurance and pension insurance. Even in 2023 they were established. Here I apologize, for 2022 - 105 million and for 2023 - 146 million; in other words, the funds are provided, the funds are provided and we cannot see here just one rule. It is true, however, that the law also provides for the introduction of an additional contribution or a law for a certain contribution in 2025. This does not mean that services will not be financed before 2025. As a matter of fact, since 2022, EUR 5 million has already been foreseen for 2021. But this is about something else. It is the fact that many in this country wanted to make a contribution first and only then find out what would be financed by this contribution. And here it is reversed, here it is reversed, that first it is necessary to provide services and these services will be paid and will be financed and the money for this is provided in the budget for 2022, even for 2021 it was provided and for 2023. However, services must first be performed and also defined. But we cannot accept a contribution first, and then, of course, have it in our accounts and so on, manage it with money and only later actually do it. And as you said, Mr Starović, yes, this government is the first to define what services are, how people will get them, and will also finance them. And I think that the state budget is certainly the most stable source of this, and in addition to the state budget, the European budget and the remaining resources of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Starović, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thanks for the answers. You haven't filled my box yet when we haven't heard these answers so clearly. So it's about construction, upgrading, and moving on. It's set in some direction. I was also primarily interested in what this contribution meant, whether it would come from the economy or whether individuals would be burdened. That's what I'd like an answer to. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a broader debate on this, because I think that this is such an important law and that there are still a lot of answers and that we need to discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! He's probably still coming to the gym.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u163	I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u164	Me, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u165	He's been here before.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you, but I'll continue with the question, maybe it'll come in the middle. Road transport in Slovenia Istria, especially during the summer months and holidays, usually exceeds the capacity of our road network. In the summer season, residents are particularly choked in sheets and exhaust gases. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What can I do? Thank you. So they're standing in columns, suffocating in exhaust gases and cars. And actually, from year to year, things are getting worse and worse, which is what this season has proved to be. Although the locals and municipalities have repeatedly called on both the current minister and the previous ones to solve the problem of the exceptional columns of the sheet that we face in Slovenia every year. Although the only viable solution is the quick road of Šmarje-Dragonja, it seems that the authorities insist on the fast road of Jagodje-Lucia simply because in the past they rushed extremely fast with the national location plan, bought the land and actually led the route to a construction permit. Once again, however, it is clear and loud that the local and municipality of Piran, or all three Istrian municipalities, have already publicly opposed the route in question, that we have all warned that the construction of the Šmarje-Dragonja fast road is a priority. For the swift road of Jagodje-Lucia would in fact mean an extraordinary debasing of the city of Lucius and also of the unbearable columns in the center of Lucija, because this route does not solve the key problem, which is the link forward to the border crossing of Sečovlja. And so, in fact, the entire colony would end up in the very center of Lucia; that we are not even talking about the destruction of the environment. Also in view of the longevity of the construction and the exceptional delay of the Markovac tunnel, we wonder how long such construction would take, what would it bring with it, what would the everyday life of people look like in this context? The fact is also that the transport strategy is intended only to link the Istrian tromest – i.e. Kopra, Izole, Piran – but not to solve the problem of transit. This is supposed to be the speedy road of Šmarje-Dragonja. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: Does the ministry still insist on building a fast road Jagodje-Lucia? As proposed, will you perform only optimization of the existing road? How far are you from the project of the fast road Šmarje-Dragonja? When can we really expect this road? In the meantime, how will the Ministry solve the problem of exceptional columns during the summer months in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much for asking the question. I have sat on this subject several times with all three mayors of the coastal municipalities. We also had meetings with Dars, and some local Members were present, and I can say that 23 million euros have been spent on this route of Jagodje-Lucia until now. They've already been bought out of real estate and everything. We all know that the local communities are opposed to this route, I also agree, because it is the Slovenian Coast, in certain cases very close to the coast and there is an opportunity for the development of tourism and so on. Which does not rule out the potential to – carefully, we talked to Mayor Piran at the same time – build both legs so that we do not overload individual villages, especially in Portorož, Lucija, and so on. We know that this course of Jagodje-Lucia would then end with a circle in Lucija and there would be a huge traffic jam against Croatia, but not anymore; and in fact this is irrelevant. This is why we will go parallel and we will not start building the routes of Jagodje-Lucija before they start doing the story also on the Koper-Schmarje-Dragonja route. The main route towards Croatia will be this route of Koper-Smarje-Dragonja. Dars is running all the procedures here to get to the premises themselves. You know that in the past this route would have been chosen if the mayors had been united on the Koper-Smarje-Dragon route. And it was that, for example, one mayor opposed this route and the rest of the local communities, and that's why it's taking so long. The Koper-Smarje-Dragonja route will be exclusively for transit transport, which is for Croatia; while the Jagodje-Lucija route will be for local residents, for people who are there and so on. I can't imagine you saying we won't do anything else on the Lucius-Jagoda route; it's already €23 million. There it can be placed in a space, bought properties, someday there will be something to be done, not because of transit, but because of the additional potential for the development of our tourism. Transit, which goes to Croatia, will have to follow the Koper-Smarje-Dragonja route. That's the solution. Because of the local population, you know how crowded they are. Let's say from Stragoje to Strunjan, Strunjan, then Portorož, right, left, towards Lucija, are great crowds. Is that right? This way, we could get rid of this carousel. There will be absolutely no transit here. We also promised the mayors, we had a joint meeting at the Ministry on this subject this year. Mayor Pirana and I have repeatedly discussed that this route is unacceptable for transit and that it should be a parallel route. And we will not build this route until Koper-Dragon is de facto placed in space and before procedures. Let me say that Dars is already looking for land for landfills, quarrying and so on because he is preparing for this intervention into space.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I hope that I will not regret you now, but I was a parishioner myself, I was also a councillor when the municipal council of 2016 decided to be absolutely against the envisaged Jagodje-Lucia route. Why? Since the project in question has changed dramatically from the national location plan until the completion of the construction permit itself. One of my colleagues says very funny, because every time Dars says that there was an extraordinary purchase of real estate there, that in fact Dars is then an outstanding real estate mogul in the Municipality of Piran, because these land are of course very high values. And this problem is also real-life-saving. If nothing else, you can offer a repurchase. I know that many people have appealed to the congregation with a request that if this road is not made, they be ready to redeem, that is, the former owners of these lands. In fact, you have not answered the specific question which is whether in the meantime anything will be done to solve the problem of columns in these Istrian municipalities during the summer season. I know exactly what the columns between Strunjan and Lucia are like. But I don't think by running this fast road, you're gonna save it. Because if this fast road is carried out as we fear, before the road of Šmarje-Dragonja, or even if it is at the same time, the real problem will still not be solved, so the transit will not be diverted to the route of Šmarje-Dragonja. There's still a fear that he'll be here. In the meantime, we could save this road with much smaller interventions into the environment if we actually started working on the Šmarje-Dragona route. Therefore, one more question: How far are you with the fast road Šmarje-Dragon? Do you know the connection that would go from Jagodje to Padna connection and continue connecting to Šmarje-Dragonja fast road? This has also been discussed in the past, and this would also be the solution to avoid an extraordinary environmental destabilisation that would have occurred with the fast road Jagodje-Lucia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u172	With all the professional grounds before that, we are about Koper-Smarje-Dragonja. You need to put this in the room first. But I also have to say realistically that in the last fifteen years, ever since the story of this fast road, which is really necessary for unloading, has been very little done in the past. However, there were purchased land there, but I don't know if the Court of Auditors comes and knocks on Dars' door and says, "You, Dars, have left the building here, you have so many and so many properties owned, do you think everyone will want them back? Do you think everyone will want them back? Who are they gonna sell them to? That's where the tunnel is also headed towards Lucia. I think, and it was a promise to the mayors that it would parallel start building one and the other fast road to then come to a final result. It is essential that transit is taken away from the Slovenian coast, and this is Koper-Smarje-Dragonja, what I am saying. Where's the project now? Now we're starting the process of putting into space. However, I believe that in due course we will be able to do this as soon as possible because it is not a specific issue and that this will be done as soon as possible. We could have done this by now, but unfortunately, I'm only a minister for a year and a half, only for so long. In a year and a half, it's not possible to put this kind of fast road into space. With regard to projects for unloading freight traffic or other causes of crowding; you know that the ministry, DRSI and Dars care for state roads and local roads care for municipalities. As far as national roads are concerned, you know that as far as possible, as far as transit is concerned, we are trying to give as much as possible to Šmarje. Unfortunately, this traffic problem in Cyprus itself is such that it is a cumbersome one, but there is a huge link between how to solve it and the local community in Cyprus alone. But we want transit not to go to Sečovlje, but to go to Draganja. And that's why all the clues are on state roads, on Dars' notice boards, that transit goes through Shmari to Dragonjo. This is what the state can do in this case, everything else is also within the jurisdiction of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. True, you are the minister of the year and a half, this problem has lasted for at least 20 years, not only 15. The fact is that the Jagodje-Lucia fast road was actually made by the local community, because the local community of Lucija was already explicitly against it. Unfortunately, I note from your response that we are actually facing another summer season in which the local population will face exceptional transport burdens. The fact is, people can't even come home if they live in Sečovje, for example. The fact is that, in the past, with the former Minister, but the ministry is still the same, I myself have taken the initiative to devote a certain local road, which is now intended for agricultural use, to the local population. I don't know what happened to this initiative, but it would also be one way to save yes, the ministry is the same. [[…]] It would be a way of solving how the local population could normally come to their homes during the worst summer season, when they literally don't come home because they're standing in columns. The life of the local population is extremely difficult. However, because it is in fact a national question of the coastal zone of Slovenia and because in fact it follows from your answer that the real solutions are essentially not the Ministry, nor is the local community obvious – because if the mayor does not tell you that it is not supported by the rapid road Jagodje-Lucia, but only Šmarje-Dragonja, here I am talking about the municipal world because the mayor is only one person, we are also talking about the 25-member municipal council – this is a question that requires another broader debate. It is the coastal belt of Slovenia, which is an extremely valuable space. I think that this issue of solving the problems of these summer columns and the road network in Slovenia deserves a wider debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u176	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished minister present, good evening! I will turn to you with one initiative, one warning, one request. There's already been an awareness of the importance of culture, and I'm not going to discuss it. In Slovenia, you are even more out of the choral singing. We are practically at the top of the world. Congregational singing is practically accessible by village, by city. As we say, it is part of our culture in a literal sense. However, I would like to point out what was as an idea — a first - class coastal choral movement. It is a magazine Primorska sings, which is present in the territory of Primorska, both on Slovenian and Italian pages, as has already been said, in every village and in every major city for 52 years. Over 4 thousand 500 singers, children, are performing in this magazine each year, including mixed singing choirs, children, men, women of all kinds. It's about humanity, about God, about rebellion, about patriotism, about connection, about friendship, about cooperation. It is practically a project that has become well established in domestic life, especially in Primorske; and it is practically every year also visited by Slovenians living in Italy, Austria and Croatia. This magazine has adapted even in the last period of the coronary crisis due to the measures in such a way that it was broadcast online. It is a world phenomenon, however, the magazine is based on volunteerism, virtually every singing congregation, and every host will make sure that he is welcome in every small village or in a larger city. But to you, Minister, I am asking and knowing that this magazine is to be maintained, both in the field and in the hearts of the people. And so I ask you if it is in your power to help yourself through the public fund. This is a relatively small amount, a few tens of thousands of euros. There are different views, different suggestions, discussions are taking place, but I think it is time to draw your attention, that you are also contributing to the country's existence, as has already been said, of the 52-year-old traditional magazine, which takes place both with us and abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. In view of the concern expressed by the Member, there are obviously some opinions that I do not know that this song magazine is at risk or that it is considered to be deprived. I hope that it will not and that it will not be threatened and that it will not be deprived, because of course I absolutely support it and I have no reservations or problems at all. However, it is also true that this congregation magazine is not dependent on me, but on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities, from this widest organization, which cares for amateur activity and in which it has already been under different names – probably Mr. Member knows – since 1969, 1970, 1999 developed and developed into a remarkable parliamentary magazine of the coastal assemblies on both sides of the border, so to speak. And I don't think there's any reservations that this magazine wouldn't continue to exist. It is true that the magazine has been going through various stages of fluctuation over the past few decades, that I will not go into any political or other debate, but there have been professional debates, of course. This choir music festival is in its quality, so to speak, it wailed. My modest opinion is that, as far as I know – and I know more similar magazines, perhaps not so large, but, however, we have singing choirs in Šentvid near Stična, we have choirs of Koroška sings and some other magazines – but this level of love would be slightly updated to find some answers to modern, modern challenges. Since the end of the day was also slightly accepted from the audience in recent years – let us leave the crown, but also before – with a smaller participation, not to say, with a little enthusiasm perhaps. This is the first time I've heard of this congregation event being threatened. As you know, this assembly event has taken place on both sides of the border, so I will not go into the details now, probably both of us with Mr Member know this time bow. Finally, it would be remarkable to note that Nova Gorica is preparing for the European Capital of Culture, so that in this context we may also use one of the forms in order to express fully this singing culture, which is present in our area and in our neighbourhood. Last but not least, there are songs competitions, festivals in Celje, Maribor. In ancient Gorica or Italian Gorica, such a competitive meeting is also known. I certainly support that. However, I would expect, as far as I know from my average curiosity, this action, in fact, to focus more substantively on and perhaps even ambitiously on a higher level, so that we do not remain just in this satisfaction – yes, we have this festival and we are going across the whole province. These concerns, which I have just said, are due to the fact that we had Europe Cantat this year, this is also a kind of amateur activity, of course they are on a higher level. And there was a Slovenian congregation – St. Nikolai, I remember, I apologize for speaking in person, I may not have the right, but, however, I was quite impressed with the level and level of such a choir, which is the same amateur or lover. And here the Public Fund for Cultural Activities should actually find all these organizers of different festivals and so on, to sit together and perhaps find some form to increase the level of this necessary and necessary and important event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr. Franci Kepa has the floor. He will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The problem of electricity generation occurs even more when it is not enough on the market. Slovenia receives about a third from a thermal power plant, a third from hydro power plants and other renewable sources and a third from a nuclear power plant. Reserves are likely to be mainly in renewable energy sources. Hydroelectric plants are also envisaged in the middle of the Sava as well as elsewhere. The last hydropower plant Mokrice is a problem because of some fish, but it'll probably work. Solar energy is running well on individual roofs, including on factory roofs, in public institutions. Geothermal energy has not yet been used, we are probably here at the beginning, but probably there is no potential here, but there are also reserves in geothermal energy. We are also in wind energy compared to other countries at the beginning. Apologize that there is not enough area in the country where the wind blows evenly, or that the wind speed is too low, or that only in Slovenia birds are affected by wind devices are attracted to the hair. Others in Europe do not set impossible conditions for the construction of wind machines and do not wait a decade for them to build them. The minimum initial wind speed for the operation of larger wind power plants is 3-5 meters per second. If the wind speed is too high, the wind power plants will stop so that no damage will occur. There are produced maps running an average annual wind speed of 50 meters above the ground for all of Slovenia, where you can see areas where you can build windmills. I know that the state is trying to make progress here, and it has also committed a lot of resources to make use of this. There's a brake. I want to know: What could a country do here to make a breakthrough in the installation of these devices? Why are we doing this in the beginning? Why is there so much resistance to installing these devices or putting them too close to the settlements? Why do we have so much resistance to these devices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u182	Good-bye! Dear Member, thank you for asking. Slovenia does not aim only to decarbonise or sustainably supply electricity, but also to ensure that electricity is supplied to households and our energy consumers, because I cannot imagine life, not even one day, in any place without electricity. Today, we depend on it, so security of supply is still important. As a result, Slovenia’s goal is to be self-sustaining with electricity, which means that we produce as much electricity as we need in the long run. The problem is even greater because it is also about converting energy supply from fossil sources, especially transport, electricity and heating. And thus, the pressure on additional sources of production is even greater. In Slovenia we have a number of projects in the field of renewables, hydropower, as you know, we have spent more than 10 years with the Mokrice hydropower plant. And we also have a concession contract for the construction of a hydro power plant in Central Savi. Much more will have to be done on other renewable sources such as wind energy. At this point, there are approximately 9 procedures for putting windfields into space. The procedures are still in progress, and we have a long way to go. Why is this problematic in Slovenia? Because Slovenia is leading Europe by the proportion of Natura areas. We have 37% of the total territory in Natura, and if we add that about 60% of Slovenia is forest-growing and that we also have quite a good part of agricultural areas, where such facilities are relatively difficult to place, of course, is a problem on the table. All these projects need to find some compromise between environmental protection and nature and between the needs for electricity and social acceptability. In fact, we have cases where nature-based windmills are acceptable, energy-related, and people don't want to have either windmills or energy infrastructures, such as cables, networks to these windmills. We have a relatively difficult task and, of course, every project is a story for itself. However, at the end of the day we have to provide long-term reliable care and we will. We also have a very demanding project to put a second block of nuclear power plant into space. At this point, an energy permit is being issued and procedures are being initiated to place this second block into space. And many are already grinding knives, in particular a certain part of the non-governmental sector, with some opposition to this project. I must stress that the local environment, where I come from, by the way, I live with a five-member family about 10 kilometers from the reactor building, I support this project. And I am surprised that some non-governmental sector from more than 100 kilometres away has reservations, especially because it does not know the details and circumstances associated with such project planning. Dear Member, you have pointed to a really big problem that will be solved by my assessment even when we experience it in Slovenia, God forbid, what a eclipse. Because it only sobers people and heads to let go of the suspense and the blockades and then we accept such projects. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we made breakthroughs especially when the electric eclipse threatened us. That is how it happened in the former Yugoslavia to decide on the second block, in the past also on some other energy project, because today I am betting that 80 to 90% of people think that electricity comes from the socket, and what they care about is very little; and they think the problem is solved. That's not true. In the government, we are aware of the responsibility and the need for relatively rapid planning of these facilities and to prevent the consequences of insecure care that I cannot imagine. You can't go to the store today if there's no electricity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I agree that the problem in Slovenia is precisely because of Nature, which is around 40% across Slovenia, and the problem will continue to show above all when the closing of the 2030, 2032 thermoelectric power plant is close to being placed. You just mentioned the nuclear power plant. But it's a problem. By 2030, we're probably gonna have a hard time replacing the nuclear power plant. And since the resistance in Slovenia is also large for renewable sources, this is a problem because it will be difficult to get a replacement, which is about a third of the energy. It's going to be 10 years from now, but in ten years, it's going to be hard to build a nuclear power plant, even if we're at the referendum, which is probably going to be pressure to do so. However, I hope that we will succeed because this is probably the only thing that can replace additional energy for Slovenia and clean energy. I agree that this will take place quickly, as soon as possible and that we will replace energy, but otherwise there will be a huge loss with the thermal power plant if this is not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Would you like to add something? Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u186	Yes, it is. You pointed out once again that not only the challenge of ensuring sustainable electricity supply or energy supply in general, but also reliable supply, so that electricity is available when we need it. Let's say this moment of battle would be a little lighted up in this House, and I wouldn't be talking over the microphone if Parliament were in the sun if solar energy were to fuel the electrical needs of this Parliament. We'd probably need some very powerful batteries to feed the energy. I just don't know when, from summer till now, because in winter, it's often short days, even cloudy or snowy and not enough energy. What do I mean by that? I want to say that it is also very important to have an adequate mix of electricity production, that we have reliable supply; in addition to the volume of the mix. That is why we have adopted a long-term strategy for the decarbonisation of Slovenia in the government and also in this Parliament, and we have made it very clear that Slovenia is betting on the long-term use of nuclear energy. A new second block of nuclear power plant can replace the existing first block and the Termoelectric power plant Shoštanj together. About a thousand megawatts of installed power, a thousand 100 megawatts, is planned. We know that the existing block of the nuclear power plant for the purposes of Slovenia offers 350 megawatts, the whole is 700-megawatt, but half of the Croatians go, and that the block is 600 megawatts, a total of just less than a thousand megawatts. With 1100-megawatt block 2 of the nuclear power plant, we cover these needs. That is why we have also taken a decision in Parliament to bet on long-term use. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will do our utmost to put this new bloc in place so that the procedures are efficient, fast. It is true, however, that many foreign participants have the opportunity to participate in this process and also to seek legal protection or, at the end of the day, to bring the whole matter to various courts which will decide on the legality of this or other authorisation. I believe and hope in some wisdom of our citizens, that they will be aware of the importance of reliable supply as well as of new carbon-free resources; and that at the end of the day we will only be able to provide Slovenia with new carbon-free, reliable and safe sources of electricity production.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Natasa Sukić has the floor and will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, distinguished minister! Between the two unions and the leadership of the Police and the Ministry of Interior, it has been tense for a long time. Dr. Olay, Director General of the Police, ordered the supervision of the work of key trade unions. According to the officer's unofficial information, however, the log did not show any irregularity. Dr. Olay, even if by faith close to the unions, he was supposed to have no argument at the meeting, but he did sign the warnings before the presidents of both police unions. The reason for this was an interview with the Journalist Council 24, for which Dr. Olay stated that the unionist was being slandered. But anyway, the Director-General is turning it around or he's turning it around. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights is clear in Articles 10 and 11, such as the unmistakable Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Articles 39 and 76, all of these articles speak of freedom of expression, the right to freedom of association, the right to freedom of operation of trade unions. Freedom of expression also includes the right to criticism of power. Obviously, Dr. Olay has served on both union presidents in this case because he knows that criminal or criminal proceedings would not go through. These are serious signs of abuse of the official position, and I believe you as a minister know that. For the state must not interfere with this right, it can only by criminal law, whether criminal or criminal, but by no means labour law. Dr Olaj carried out the elements of the offence under Article KZ-1, paragraph 2, by doing so. The two presidents of the police unions have also responded to a warning from the union headquarters, who are convinced that the police leadership has used abuse to warn against the termination of the labour relationship in an entirely unacceptable way to subordinate the functioning of both representative police unions. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor: As Minister, will you act and replace the Director-General of the Police, who in this case has actually crossed the limit of leave? Will you continue to exert repression and political pressure on the unionists by allowing such pressure along with General Director Olai, and will you also violate the international conventions, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby further disrupting the system in the Police, thereby jeopardising national security? How do you comment on the results of the survey between 3 000 600 police officers and police officers carried out by the Police Union of Slovenia and whose single assessment is that poor relations in the Police are the responsibility of the Director General of the Police, Dr. Anton Olaj? Is this not the result of a survey that you find extremely worrying, and an alarm that directly calls for your action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, Mr. Sukich! First of all, I don't think at all, at least because of what you asked the Government to propose replacing the Director-General. As you know, I don't name him, but he's appointed by the government on the basis of a proposal from the minister. And of course such a proposal because of the statements you have presented here, or because of the question you are asking me, I do not intend to do so. If we are more specific, of course it is necessary to know what the trade unionists have said in these statements in the Council of 24. They used to say that, say, the police chiefs always simply hang their mistakes from the police. Now I'm asking you if the police chiefs are like that, then why are you so worried about these officers' mandates? Police chiefs, if they're worried that they're always going to hang on to police officers, then we should actually support the idea or adopt a marriage, when these police chiefs will also act more responsibly for the sake of re-election. Then they wrote that fear of threats of job loss was also present if an individual did not act as the Director - General wished. This is the new nebulosis that the two presidents of the union have enjoyed in this article. I don't know a single case where the Director-General would threaten anyone or even more than they claim here, he's threatened with losing his job. Further, let us say an interesting statement by one of the presidents who said in this interview: “Replacements in the police are nothing new and even for the union are not controversial, but only if they are done legally.” It goes on to say: "In the course of this government, we are faced with an enormous increase in illegal transfers or reliefs." I must say, I don't know of any such illegal discharge or relocation. The Lord is talking about an enormous number of these. All of this, in my opinion, culminated in the fact that the Director-General of the Police decided to make a perfectly logical and understandable move that he had warned both Mr Presidents to stop profaning his name, to stop profaning the police as a system, and to start talking to those who are their superiors, not least to those who provide them with all the funds. This, however, is appropriate during the time of the Minister, me; however, the positions they hold are appropriate. By the way, one of the union presidents, Mr Mlekus, also said that the level of communication of the minister is such as the level of drunken and aggressive verbal incursion of violators against police officers on the ground when they are stopped in violation. So this is now the union president's level. But let's leave me alone. I don't think I have anything to do with both, except what I just said, that is, providing adequate funds, equipment, an adequate budget and, of course, a social dialogue that is linked to the signing of the collective agreement. They are legally in relation to the Director-General of the Police and the Director-General of the Police will ensure that relations under labour law are properly regulated. However, I must say two things that are linked to the Collective Police Treaty and are, of course, bound to my co-signature or to the signature of the one who is then minister. Among other things, the collective agreement has made it clear that the work of trade unionists – that is to say, these two gentlemen and all others – is intended to be allowed more than 50% of their work in the trade union area. Of course, no one ever thought that more than 50% would be 100%. By the way, both gentlemen, Mr Milkus and Mr Cvetko, have not exercised police powers for quite some time. I wonder how you guys can actually be cops. They do not carry out regular annual shootings, do not perform all those activities and trainings that are necessary in order for a policeman to retain his or her powers; but simply think that when union presidents or union commissioners are so strongly protected that they do not need them to exercise their police powers anymore. Since my time has run out, I'll follow through on your, I suppose, question that will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u192	The third paragraph of Article 89 of the ZODPOL provides that a trade union creditor may perform this work in full professional terms, as defined in Article 45 of the collective agreement on non-economic activities. The unionists are absolutely right, and you're wrong here. You've afforded yourself, Minister, and so have you, but a few controversial actions, to mention only two of them. In a insulting and cynical manner, you have on Twitter rejected the police union's findings that you or the Director General of the Anton Olaj Police are in line with Article 32 of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, responsible for the complication of protecting Members from the National Assembly. And you wrote: “Start working, lazy.” This is not a level of communication suitable for a minister. And secondly, you also posted union watch control on Twitter, the day before the report was official. You posted this on November 3rd at 12.01 and the reports were published on November 4. This year's 11th position. In addition, you have published the report in such a way that you have only fictitiously concealed personal information. So I want to know: Who gave you the report the day before the official release? Did you deliberately hide your personal information so badly that you didn't actually cover it up? The Director-General of the Olaj Police is obliged to keep you informed, but not to hand over the documents, but he's obviously given them to you. This publication is not innocent, far from it. This information in advance, as in the house investigation, is the reason why Nova24TV, your client TV, announced this investigation the day before the investigation with Minister Restovalsk, before, say, it happened. And I want to know: When will you stop using Twitter for this kind of communication? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dear Member, if we go first to the amount of work done by the police and on my Twitter, a statement that has somehow been accompanied by some deception. Mrs. Sukič, I never said that cops are lazy or that they should start working. This was always and exclusively intended for unionists, both union presidents. We were involved in communication with them, and this tweet was due to one of the union presidents saying that when the MPs did not adequately ensure from the National Assembly that the police were not guilty of this because they did not accept the appropriate security assessment. To remind you again, not the Milky Way or the Flower for years or at least two years since I've been here, they haven't been exercising any police powers. They don't do anything about the police, they only do unionism. And that there will be no dilemma, ma'am, I myself have proposed that we agree on how many hours of police work and how many hours of unionism will take. You know they're not ready to make a deal. And I don't mind them doing a hundred percent union work. We have one very well-known unionist in this country who does nothing but trade unionism. This is Mr Branimir Struckle. And I don't mind, but Mr. Brannimir Struk is paying for the union. Both of them can only play unionism because of me, but we're not paying taxpayers. Let them pay these hundred percent hours alone with the collected membership. By the way, today I received a notice from the Director-General, where, say, one, two, three, I won't count everything now, let's say 10 people, for 10 people of one union for 2022 are proposing to work full-time union work, so 10 people will be paid for union work by taxpayers. I'd like to ask them to pay from their membership fee. For the next three, the number of annual hours – a thousand 500, a thousand 200. Thus, practically all year long, taxpayers are expected to pay for this. I find that unacceptable. As it is said, they should be paid if they want to have them, but I cannot agree in any way to do a full-time union job, no police work, and at the same time retain police powers. That's not acceptable. And I believe that in the next week or two, they too will have the wisdom to sit down and agree on the number of hours they will take for the union work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukich, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u196	I have a procedural proposal. Respected and respected, of course, I propose that we hold a debate on these matters in the National Assembly. Once again, the Minister-designate, the third paragraph of Article 89 of the Law on the organisation and work of the police, determines that the trade union operator may perform this work completely professionally, i.e. in full; and also Article 45 of the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities provides for this. This applies to all trade unions everywhere, including the police unionists. Whether you like it or not, that's the way it is, it's the law, and I know you're having a hard time together, but that's the way it is. It is time to discuss the political pressures on unionists, policemen and the transformation of the police into some kind of political police force and the countries into an increasingly police state. Let's say unionists comment on certain things they're right about. Dear Minister, you say yourself, you write down that they are lazy, that they only fly to trade unions, and then you are surprised that unionists comment in an interview that your level of communication is not appropriate. These are double criteria. These are double criteria and it's not right, it's just wrong that you have one criterion for yourself and one for them. If you write to them that they're lazy, it's their right to comment, because that's not how they do it. Among other things, Rok Cvetko says that police are aware that some representatives of political power with reckless, inappropriate and offensive communication to different or otherwise thinkers cause emotional and irrational reactions to people. So they called for, say, these conventions, patience and peaceful conventions. They also addressed the people, not just you, because they are only so effective in setting the mirror to the political authorities, they wrote it down. In addition, they added that they are themselves fighting against the decisions of the Government and the National Assembly, which they do not agree with, in a firm but just and civilised manner. They also stated that they understood that the public perception of police officers as representatives of the authorities, but that police officers are only civil servants and are obliged to carry out their duties in accordance with the rules in force. However, the political authorities have reported that the police are becoming more than obvious victims of its irrational and provocative opinions and opinions, so they call on it to express its views and opinions with patience, reasonable and respectfulness and respect for the diversity of citizens and so on. In short, I repeat, one thorough debate is indeed necessary. Dear Minister, I told you this morning that I wish we could finally hear and understand different opinions, not just what you stuck in your head. But listen and you will find that the truth is always somewhere in between, that you need to talk and also understand the views of others, not just your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 December in the framework of the votes. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić. She will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the same time as you specifically set up a so-called economic party, Minister Restoršek, you have struck quite a concrete blow to one of the economic sectors which has barely survived in these two years due to already illogical codifying measures. I am talking about the hospitality sector, which hoped that at least at the time of the happy December, it would fix at least a little of the disastrous business situation. And many among them have also become heavily accredited and have been forced to fire workers or even shut down. Covid hasn't been since yesterday, this government that you're vice president of, and it's always been some decision to announce a new catastrophe the last moment that people really don't expect any more blows. And at the same time, when we were looking at the creation of our new one, I'm going to say, sorry, bypass party and we heard you say that as far as the action is concerned, we were also looking at the sad footage of people standing at closed stalls and explaining with tears in their eyes to the cameras that they didn't even know what to do with the food and drink supply they got for the whole month, so they didn't know what to do with paying very expensive rents, that they didn't know what to do at all to feed their families. You've completely ruined their business. And it would be very funny if it wasn't such a tragic fact for too many participants that bone can be sold because you eat it during walking and peeling. I mean, what's so logical here, and what's clear here? But if the sausages and the boots were to eat while walking and toss around, would the cooks be snorting while they were walking, could it then be arranged differently — or what? I mean, I'm really sorry, that's all, your statements are so comical that you're really a joker. Like when you said that napkin masks work great on the condition that the rubbers are replaced with red. In short, I really don't understand: What, in particular, will you do to compensate the disabled guests for their damage? Please give me a concrete answer to this question because it is too many lives, too many families and too many economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Minister Rest, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u200	Dear Member Violeta Tomić, distinguished National Assembly, thank you for the question! A specific party shall be a sovereign party, as opposed to the party to which you belong. In particular, we have helped tourism with a concrete amount of EUR 1 billion in eight anti-Korona and intervention laws. Thanks to the concrete actions taken by this government, this industry has survived and is in good condition despite your dramatic contribution. Of course, the current decree decides that Christmas and New Year's Fairs should be held under certain conditions. There was a lot of communication about the conditions, so I wouldn't repeat myself here. I would stress, however, that a key condition of PCT is that it needs to be properly verified. The current decree followed the opinion of the Expert Advisory Group on the Control and Control of the Covid-19 Epidemic at the Ministry of Health. In the current epidemiological situation, the decision aims to ensure that the holiday, Christmas and New Year's fairs are carried out in a way that is as protective as possible to prevent the spread of infections. Guest activity shall be permitted in the sitting regime between 5 and 22 hours in the inn and shall be allowed in the marked area outside or inside, and the maximum number of persons present at the same time shall also be published in the visible place. The same is true of outside in an appropriately organized area, where it is necessary to perform the service at the table for sitting guests. Closer contacts increase the risk of transmission of the virus. Current measures can control the spread of infections if we respect them. And throughout the epidemic, the vast majority of citizens respect the measures, thus treating themselves, their neighbors, and their communities responsibly. Only together can we contribute to the improvement of the situation and also to the increase in the condition of the spirit. I am convinced that, despite the limitations now set in December, we can survive in a holiday atmosphere, making sure that we do not endanger others by our conduct. Once again, with concrete measures, not by speaking and misleading people, we have enabled the industry to survive and to be optimistic about the future today. One billion euros is a concrete contribution to the hospitality and tourism carried out by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u202	I didn't expect to get a concrete answer, but just some pamphlets, and some punches on me and on my client, but let's leave. Let's move on. At the same time, you made a pre-election promise, which is a big joke that your client will take care of an additional million people. So I want to know: Why, why, how? And if we leave aside the fact that we last heard these ideas and saw them in Nazi Germany in the 1930s, when in special establishments women had to give birth to real Aryans who would save Europe, this idea unfortunately made quite a joke on your account, although in its essence this idea is horrendous and is not even funny. But since some of you are obviously going to be elected, we have a problem, and that's why I'm specifically interested: What do you need an additional million Slovenians — for cheap labour or what? How will you provide them? You said the aliens are out, the imports are out, because they have to be pure-blooded Slovenians. What are you gonna do? You are very fond of this government, the far right-wing Janša government, you are exemplary in Poland. I want to know: Are you planning to have more difficult access to contraception, abortion, as well as there? How and by what will you promote this fertility? Do you have a long-term plan for these additional people, as much as a million, for reliable jobs and affordable housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u204	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding the three million Slovenians, I am really glad that this statement attracted your attention. My statement also encouraged reflection on the naturality and the numbers we are experiencing, but they are brutally clear and it is a key message: we need to create the conditions for Slovenians to like to live in Slovenia. You know, if we're just gonna talk, not specifically, as you say, then those who are here will get away from us. Because people want to work, we create jobs, so that young Slovenians in Slovenia, wherever, even at the border, can get a good job, create a family and make a business career. And that's the goal we have. However, if you take my statement out of context, and I am also pleased, because with this statement I have achieved that we will start to have a serious conversation about demographic trends in Slovenia. Today, Slovenia defends itself with a population, not with an army, tanks and aircraft, but with people living in Slovenia; with people who experience Slovenia as their home country, they process it, value it and contribute to it, so that we can also be a strong society in the economic field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u206	In accordance with the rules of procedure, I ask that we discuss this Minister's reply, because as contradictory as I have heard them and as inconclusive as I have been, I did not even expect it to be. In short, what he was saying is that we're going to keep the Slovenians here with good policies, which would be very nice, but you're talking about an extra million growth, like we're in the barn. I agree with you that we defend Slovenia, not with the army and the tanks, but with the people. This is a very nice thought, and on the other hand, this government buys so many weapons that you simply don't allow a referendum or anything, instead of actually investing in people. But I'm talking about people who don't have this moment for postages that live in the cold, hungry kids and so on. You don't see it because you live in some kind of world. To get a job at the border — I don't know what you meant by that. In short, I think that this way of thinking is very, very worrying, and I therefore expect a debate at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now we have the last question in the first round. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, who is a percentage, so please state whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u208	Yes, of course! First of all, thank you for your word. At the next meeting, I would like an oral reply from Minister Podgorsk, but I will now ask the question. On 11 June 2020, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 104th meeting, adopted a decision calling for SDH to be the Slovenian State Holding Company, proposed to carry out a procedure in accordance with the rules for the transfer of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre to the Republic of Slovenia. All this fine and fine, and then there will be 25 November 2021 at the government's modified decision or proposed decision. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Slovenian State Holding Company, SDH, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, to carry out procedures for the establishment of a temporary purpose company, and this is the biggest change since the previous decision adopted last year, which bought out the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre. I'm very sensitive about this, not just because it's on Ptuj, it's one thing. Another point is that this Selection and Trial Centre maintains our indigenous local or Slovenian seeds, or this genetic material, which should be a real priority, in particular the Minister of Agriculture, to protect or protect this local design or to design local food self-sustainment. Now the question for the Minister: Why did this change of strategy actually happen, which is actually very strange? Why did it appear that SDH has set up some kind of temporary purchasing company? I don't know why these, I'm going to say, interfaces or why this intermediate company is joining this issue, because given that this decision was already taken last year, it would be somehow understandable that SDH would have already implemented this and bought back this Selection and Trial Centre from Villager, who actually bought Semenarna Ljubljana. Another matter that the profession also points to. The profession essentially advocates that the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre come under the auspices of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, which would also be somehow logical or correct, given that they care for these varieties, which are intended to feed in general. It also makes sense to ask another aspect or question, because there were also some concerns or rumors on the ground that the company was behind the establishment of the company for sale of very loose plots located near Drava. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer orally at the next meeting. We are now moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. The first one gets the word, Mr. Jože Lenart. He will ask the Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world, Dr. Helena Jaklitsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! It is just a year's time that we have discussed this issue for the first time, and perhaps it is right that we should also do one review of what happened at that time with regard to the exercise of Slovenian minority rights in Austria. That's our theme. During that period, there were also great prospects for the Slovenian minority, as the Austrian government allocated 10 million funds to them a year ago, and also your department created more. In the last year, we have been able to realise that the resources are no longer necessarily rights for the Slovenian minority. Since 2020, when I have asked the question, virtually nothing has changed in this area, the preservation of the Slovenian language in Austria is increasingly at risk. Even though it will not be misunderstood that you have directed quite a lot of activity into this area, then I would like you to answer for yourself: Why haven't we been successful at these moves? In the meantime, two reports on Austrian minority policy were published for 2020, where this Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty is no longer mentioned as the basis of the Slovenian minority in Austria. For Austria’s Styria, it is even written that the Republic of Austria does not see the possibility of bilingual schools, Slovenian as an official language and bilingual inscriptions. In 2017, the Council of Europe gave Austria a number of urgent and a number of additional measures concerning the exercise of minority rights, which have unfortunately not yet been implemented. Thus, a number of issues remain open in the field of Slovenian in the education processes, the official language in the municipalities, courts, the country government, the areas of child protection are legally irregular, there is no law and it allows for a variety of manipulations everywhere, media provision of radio, TV and new media is modest and not even at the level of society. Two-lingual topographical inscriptions, which, of course, are observed on the way to the Rose, Podjuni, Zilja, but significantly less than promised. I tried this myself for two years when I cycled through Austria’s Koroška on the anniversary of plebiscite. That's why I'm interested in: What are you planning, Madam Minister, that Slovenian minority organisations in Austria can better resolve their issues in this area? In fact, this is already the third government in your ministry mandate, and this is also interesting, the activities of Slovenian organisations have now increased again. I'm asking: What activities is your ministry currently carrying out in this area? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u212	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Lenart, and all are present, thank you for your question. In fact, let me first express my gratitude for the concern and attention you are giving to the Slovenian minority in Koroška and Styria, so at least the word comes to Parliament for me and for my area of such an important topic. As you have already seen, in the last year, despite great predictions, things have not changed as well as they would have wanted, which of course does not mean that a few steps have not been taken. It is certainly encouraging to see this doubling of funds which, in the end, show that they are not exactly duplicated, however. This satisfaction has certainly been expressed by the News, the central newspaper of our Korean Slovenes, who are finally financially regulating their financial situation, which has been on the brink for a long time. Likewise, of course, there is an increasing interest in enrolment in kindergartens, schools and learning Slovenian; but yes, you are right, but the knowledge of Slovenian still falls. This part, also as the Republic of Slovenia, as well as as as the Minister of the Department, is in fact all of us in our bilateral discussions that the concern for the development of Slovenian and the possibility of education in the Slovenian language is necessary, not only in human schools, but also in human schools and kindergartens. We are not successful here so far, but I will say that this is also a great task for the minority itself to point out. It may be worth warning or simply mentioning, it is positive that in bilingual education there has been a novelty in recent years, that under tender conditions the knowledge of the Slovenian language must also be necessary for the Director, which was not previously self-evident. This gives some hope that things will change. The Council also adopted a draft resolution on the sustainability of the early promotion of language skills in bilingual and multilingual children's kindergartens. Representatives of the Slovenian minority also participated here, as well as at the country level. The Forum for Dialogue on the Development of Languagely Mixed Territory also highlighted the urgent need for knowledge or promotion of bilingual kindergartens and nursery. I have had several conversations on this subject myself, and I have warned or spoken to the head of the country – I am glad that I met with the then Rector of the University of Pegasus – where we also talked about the importance of the Slovenian language for the preservation of the Slovenian minority, but now, as you yourself said, he has also become ministers of education in the current Austrian government, so that I not only gave him my congratulations for this appointment but also encouraged him not to forget our conversation, because it seems important to me that we need to move. We have great hopes here, still, and I also believe in our Koroška Member Olga Voglauer, with whom we are also connected and also have all our support to make this really move forward. We would like, or as far as the language itself is concerned, to be happy that the minority itself is united, to see this need for itself, and to encourage it in all the discussions, to make these requirements very clear. As for Slovenia, of course, we cannot directly influence the school system in Austria because it is a school system in another country, but we certainly need to think about additional numbers of language assistants, additional training of teachers, teachers who teach, teaching at these bilingual schools. We have also financially strengthened support for this particular segment, at least from the point of view of the work of our office, and I can also say here the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, including this year's call, which has just expired, we have given priority to exactly those funding projects where the focus is actually concern for the Slovenian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. Nevertheless, I would point out the latter that, of course, we have representatives of three roof organisations in Austria. You may not be the best part of it, but I'm going to be a little critical. The representation is so very fragmented and thus benefits Austria, because of course the voice of the Slovenian minority in Austria is not so heard. The issue of representation of the Republic of Korea has been going on for decades, and we know what institutional solutions still do not exist; we do not feel the right connection. The Co-ordination Committee of the Korean Slovenes failed when the third was established in 2006 in addition to the existing two central organisations. Modernisation of the representative structure is needed, which will be a reliable partner of the Slovenian government and will sovereignly represent interests with the Coroque and federal government in Vienna. The mere inefficiency and dissatisfaction of the joint action of minority organisations are also pointed out by young people through three student organisations in Celovac, Graz and Vienna, which is very important. The latter were clearly expressed last year before the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in the organization of the exhibition in the National Assembly itself, which we witnessed. Of course, young people want to live free, and this is the foundation they expect of us older ones. Representatives of the Czech Republic argue that the desire for a more effective common plural representation is clear. Therefore, from this point of view, I ask for your answer: What do you see in this area? What are you doing and what can be improved here?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you for complementing the question. I couldn't agree more with you. Of course, we would very much like the minority to act unitedly when it comes to the question of the common representation of the minority. Here, as well as you are well aware of the situation in Austria's Koroška, the differences between the umbrella organisations themselves do not come to a unified position. However, I believe that in the future they will be able to overcome these differences and find a common position. Because for the existence of a minority it is really important to have a single representative, who is then an interlocutor at both the country and federal level, even in relation to the Republic of Slovenia, although we are, of course, having a conversation all the time not only with the umbrella political organisations, but also with all other organisations and societies, Slovenian companies operating in Koroške. We are pleased, however, that they are united when it comes to the issue of language when it comes to the establishment of bilingual structures from manger to university. How can we encourage them to come up with those critical questions together? We have conversations with them all the time. It has proved to be a very good example of good practice in the last year, when the President of the State also referred to the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite plenum, to which he invited a very wide audience of representatives of the Czech Republic and Slovenes, organisations where not only roofed political organisations, but also cultural ones, have expressed their views. Then it is also, of course, one Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place, where there is also one round where things can also be discussed. I believe, however, that it will be here, which I regret for now is not this unity, at least in the field of representation, which is as urgently needed as you say; modernisation is necessary. However, in the future we will continue to maintain this dialogue with them, encourage reflection on finding these solutions, that itself as a minority, which is very then again and again, we do not want to reduce minorities to a certain object, but to preserve its status as an entity that can decide for itself, what is most important to it, what is necessary for it to not only preserve itself, but also strengthens it. [[…]] This, I think, is the role of all of us, as well as the National Assembly and all of Slovenia's institutions, to address together the minority, the umbrella organisations at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u218	The hall is beautiful. I think we've rounded this area pretty good. Look, if this statement by the Minister for the Economy were to be taken by me, at least I took it, three million Slovenians, because if we could connect all Slovenes in the place and in the world, maybe there are almost three million of us, if we say a little bit like that, I think it's a pretty good point. We must not forget that there are more and more students in Austria, in Celovac, Gradac, Vienna and also migrant workers, and also, this is the additional point that needs to be made and that remains Slovenian in this area of speaking. But if I say this in one sentence: To speak two languages in a border area today is an advantage, not a weakness. This is a fact that both sides should be aware of, and this should be the case, not then looking for other objections so that these matters do not take place. I would also like to come up with this question in order to reach a broader general debate in the National Assembly, not because it was proposed or put up by the opposition Member, but because it seems to me that this is our common point, that we should all take a stand for it and be such a debate, I think it has been for a very long time in the National Assembly, that it would be very useful, positive. I appeal to my fellow Members, both left and right, to support this point and to include it in a broader debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to ask the Minister for Infrastructure Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Good evening, too, on my behalf. Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear Minister. I am addressing you with a question on the question of the revitalisation of the Bohinj railway. A number of enthusiasts from Gorenjska, Primorska, from the Italian side have struggled for decades to see the Republic of Slovenia not as a burden, but as a great tourist opportunity this sleeping beauty. I also joined this group in 2015 and, in my capacity as a Member, both at the time of the Minister of Gasperšič, Bratuškova, Mrs Bratušek and, of course, you, Minister, together have made some important progress, which, of course, under the organisation of today's Bohinj Railway Consortium, is mainly concerned with the entourages, as has already been said, that the country is constantly reminding of this great opportunity. In fact, we are talking about the Bohinian track, which connects not only two regions, but three countries with great ambitions also within the framework of the European Capital of Culture project, which is being cultivated or hosted in 2025 by both Nova Gorica and Italian Gorica. I must say that the experience of peacemaking or supporting the revitalisation of the Bohinj railway by the Infrastructure Directorate, the Slovenian Railways Directorate, as well as, of course, you, the respected minister, are able to understand that the first phase of upgrading the entire Bohinj railway is planned in the next decade or a little less. Here I am talking mainly about remote traffic management and the regulation of additional passenger infrastructure. More modal passenger centres are also planned, along with various municipalities, because this is an opportunity for military, sports tourism, religious tourism and, of course, culinary and gastronomic tourism, linked, of course, to the Soviet front, the Way of Peace and all the goodness on both sides of the border. Of course, train speed is not important, but safety is important, accuracy is important, comfort is important. In recent years, several stations have been restored, the composition of the wagon, but we still have some work to do, especially in individual stations such as the Soča Bridge, and, of course, what is crucial, the respected minister: the talks have recently been about plans to connect in very short time to passenger traffic of both Gorica, and, of course, arranged a connecting bow for transport tourism in the area of the Vrtojb or Šempetra border crossing, where they would also unload the centre of Nova Gorica, which is soundly burdened by the compositions that are turning there. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first question, I would ask you to give us a brief glimpse of your point of view as well: What is the progress planned in this and next year in the field of the Bohinj railway?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Minister Rotovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The Bohinian route is certainly one of those routes that is unique not only in Slovenia, but in the territory of the European Union as a whole. It is a first-class Alpine track, which has no such case anywhere else, and we must keep it as well. I'm sure she's lost her splendor in the last, I don't know, 60s, 70s when parallel routes were established in Italy and also in Slovenia, but it's unique for the development of tourism and also for the connection with Goriška v Gorenjska. Definitely. Because we are aware of this, I can now say in public that in the next ten years a substantial sum of money will be devoted to the reconstruction of the mountain line, I am talking about about about 200 million euros. As far as the news is concerned, the Sochi Bridge, as you mentioned. This moment also prepares an ideal design for the complete upgrade of the Soča Bridge train station. So, this is a big Soča Bridge project, you can know that this is a unique place and that it is also full of tourists and that this is an additional opportunity for the development of tourism in Tolmin and around. What is essential is to say that the creation of a passenger link on the route Nova Gorica–Vrtojba–Gorica will be carried out by upgrading the signal security devices to regulate Nova Gorica and Gorica's interdisciplinary dependence; and what was also a question is the real creation of a passenger link on the route Nova Gorica–Vrtojba–Gorica, this connection will be carried out by upgrading the direct or direct link to Sežana. It's a so-called triangle. The construction of the new railway station in Šempetr pri Gorica is also included and the talks with the Municipality of Nova Gorica, both the ministries and the DRSI, are now in the final stage of the coordination of the project task for the management of Nova Gorica railway station. So this is the whole package, we are aware that Nova Gorica will be the European capital of culture and that we also need to adapt infrastructure to this. We are proud of this, and we will do everything in our power, so that the railway station and the Bohin line will also get their weight on this city. So the activities will take place here, even in Nova Gorica itself, the triangle itself will then be established. However, let me say that other activities are also under way for only the first phase of the upgrade of the Bohinj railway, including the introduction of remote traffic management, the arrangements of all stations and stations and the regulation of level crossings. At this point, activities are being carried out more in the north, according to Podbrdo, where we are salinizing the reptilian area, that is, the beach near Podbrdo. We have made it possible to take traffic along this route on a regular and safe basis. It is true that the first step is the Sochi Bridge – the railway station and the triangular railway station in Novi Gorica. It is essential that we connect more easily with this triangle Novo Gorica, Sežana and Gorica, because this is a whole and one economic and cultural area.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. If my question is a little too specific, I'll ask you if you can answer me back in writing. I want to know: Do you also have the above-mentioned initiative on passenger transport links between Novo Gorica and Ajdovščina and both places? In fact, initiatives are set out to get people gradually used, at least to those living between Ajdovščina and Novo Gorica, to a sustainable form of mobility. That's one question. Secondly, I did not quite understand the introductory words when you mentioned how much funding was being made for the Bohinian route: Have you spoken in general about the entire rail system? Thank you very much for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u226	The link between Ajdovščina and Nova Gorica will certainly be established when greater potential is demonstrated. In the past, this track worked, in the last very bad, there was no potential for students, including some students from the Ajdovščina in Novo Gorica. Well, I'm home there, and believe me, I'd like to have this route set up as soon as possible, but they can't drive trains and there's no one on them. It just doesn't work, and we have to have that in mind, because then we're putting resources where they're not the most optimized. But I believe that this route will be set up further, that it will also gain potential, especially in view of the fact that Ajdovščina is increasingly developing economically and that migrations will take place in both directions. New jobs are opening up in Ajdovščina, because there are many projects, new plants and I believe that economic cooperation between the two cities in northern Primorska will be so strong that this economy of the operation of the railway connection will also be primary and that it will be possible to re-establish lines. In the next ten years, 200 million euros have been earmarked for the Bohinj route. For the goddess line! Especially the arrangement of all stations, remote control and all other things, the replacement of rails, the regime itself and so on. I'm telling you, if we don't act now, then the Bohin line will collapse. This will never be a TEN-T track again, let us agree, but we must preserve it as a cultural and historical landmark and therefore these means for the development of the Bohinian track are also intended.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs. Natasa Sukič has the floor. She will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, who is absent, so please tell me if you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u228	I'd like an oral response. Can I ask you a question now? Yeah. Dear Minister! In neighbouring Croatia, a national afforestation campaign has been launched since 2019 and the campaign has started as a citizens' initiative and continued at national level. In 2021 more than 60,000 orchards were planted for one month, and tens of thousands of people have taken part in the campaign. The name of the campaign is Don't be a rat. The campaign is mobilising, solidarity and, above all, awareness-raising. It is an exceptional action to raise public awareness of the need to combat climate change, in which people are mass-motivated for active cooperation. The initiative is driven by the idea that everyone can plant a tree and thus contribute to the fight against climate change, which is a very simple and effective method. Acquisition has been one of the main objectives of climate conferences in recent years; this year, Glasgow's priority has been set precisely for afforestation, which should be three times faster than the targets set. All studies show that forests reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We therefore believe that Slovenia should also take advantage of the capacity of forests to absorb carbon dioxide or greenhouse gas from the atmosphere responsible for climate change. I'm asking you about that. Slovenia is naturally rich in forests, thanks in particular to the systematic afforestation from several decades ago, in the previous system, the prohibition and prevention of the Holocaust and the systematic care of forest habitat, natural resources and the environment. I want to know: Does the Republic of Slovenia carry out planned and systematic afforestation? Where and to what extent? How many areas in the Republic of Slovenia have been afforested in the last three years and in what area? Is it systematically affluent on surfaces that were destroyed a few years ago because of the acorn? Do you keep a record of the Holocaust in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer orally at the next meeting. The next one is mag. Andrei Reich. He will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u230	Good-bye, distinguished minister! The disengagement of society is a development opportunity for all of us, and, of course, the energy sector has a particularly important role to play with its agility and scope. Over the next 30 years, investments of up to €10 billion in the electricity network and related services are thus envisaged. Electromobility is being introduced, a number of new production sources are being connected, and we will eventually discuss all economic processes. For this reason, it is also important that all stakeholders, that is, all residents, cooperate in their own strength and abilities. We do know, however, that in this year or even before last year, after some parts of Slovenia, it began to get stuck by attaching small producers of self-sustaining communities to an electric low-voltage distribution network. It's mostly self-sustaining households. According to certain directors of distribution companies, not least the Ministry, the network that is available cannot bear this. Of course I'm interested: What is the plan of the Ministry and Systemic Operator of SODA, which essentially prepared this summer 200 pages of the Development Plan of the Distribution System of Electricity in the Republic of Slovenia during the period 2021-2030? What plans and measures are envisaged to ensure that households and the economy can become self-sustaining and that laws in this area, including as regards the speed of networking, can be implemented? The interest between people is very great. Here I would like to point out that people in cities who live/live in multi-housing buildings do not yet serve for various objective reasons of self-sustainment, mostly people living in single-family houses. In particular, this is linked to the numerous consents of the other co-owners to be obtained. In this light, of course, I'm interested: What will the Ministry and the SODO do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you for asking. Yeah, there you go. Energy transition requires accelerated investment in renewable energy production. That's a fact. A very large part of this is played by scattered resources, such as small power plants connected to the distribution network, to a large extent even on a low-voltage distribution network. The distribution network was not built and dimensional for such loads and, in addition to incentives and investments in the construction of the renewables themselves, substantial higher investments in the electricity networks themselves are certainly envisaged, particularly in distribution networks. Now, if at the annual level of these investments in Slovenia so far about €120 million, this figure has risen to €150 million this year. 150 million euros. In the framework of the adopted NEPN, approximately EUR 460 million per year was planned to be invested in networks and development itself, and the DS plan for the period from 2021 to 2030 is in line with the NEPN. The goal in NEPN is ambitious and we believe in the ministry that it is also achievable. At the same time, it is important that the EEE target for Slovenia in the NEPN itself is set at 27% by 2030, which is also based on the Directive on the Promotion of Renewable Energy Sources, which was in force at the time of the preparation of NEPN in 2020. In addition, in the framework of this year's National Recovery and Resistance Plan, it is already envisaged to promote the strengthening of 80 million electricity distribution networks. However, with regard to the connection of EEE to the network itself, I can point out that 3 000 956 self-sustainment devices were combined in 2020. Of the installations connected in 2020, there were 3 000 947 solar power plants, 8 hydropower plants and one wind power plant. Therefore, the total rated power of the devices connected in 2020 is less than 55 megawatts; in 2021, from January to October, a total of 5,000 168 self-sustainment devices were connected. And these numbers are, although some, especially on the Styrian part of Slovenia, have been waiting for more than half a year, these are about 4,000, and all the rest are excuses; all the rest are excuses and inoperability. The energy companies mentioned above have all available, all legislative initiatives are available. There's nothing waiting in Gorenjsk. Tell me why there are thousands of them in Styrian. Here, however, we see a difference in what the operationality of an individual company is when we talk about awareness of switching to a distribution network. I was here or at these numbers, we were pretty disappointed in the Ministry. We went over these numbers with the team, and that's not right. We talk, the sun is our future, but let's do a little battle on it. Investments — These companies also have net assets and profits that they can invest in themselves. It's been years and years. It's a very regulated activity. And the investment flow is supposed to be going on. Some of the other energy companies I visited, even when visiting the region of Gorenje, I can say that they have invested enough in this in the past. Investments, too. Let me continue because I still have enough time, with the package itself 55, fit for 55 or yes, 55, which increases the European Union's ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the use of EEE and more efficient energy use by 2030. The package itself also proposes a new target for renewable energy sources, increasing even to 32 percent or from 32 percent to 40 percent. If we do not react in time, we will certainly not achieve these objectives. In doing so, we must all do our utmost together. Business itself, not just the state. We have prepared all the relevant documents, legislative strategies, so that they can take action immediately. I hope this is followed by these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've raised one question that I didn't want to open. However, I am interested, so you said that there is currently an investment in networks, that investments in the network have increased from 120 million to 150 million, and NEPN expects or anticipates the necessary investment of 460 million. I also didn't want to touch the problems in the area of Elektra Maribor at first. These, but I say, are probably, if such breakthroughs are in the necessary investments and actual investments, the question arises as to what the SODO was doing. The SODO is a system operator of the distribution network, and in this report, which was adopted by the Government this year, it is also confirmed that there is no spirit or hearing about it. Moreover, this report, although intended for the period from 2021 to 2030, refers to the period 2010 to 2020. So he's not really addressing any major problems. And since the Government has appointed the new Director of SODA immediately after the term of office, namely Mr Stanislav Voduška, who replaced the long-standing Matjaž Voduška, who is now the director of the TES for the prize, and given that the SODO has not issued any warning or said that the distribution companies are in breach of anything, the question arises as to the seriousness and accuracy of these allegations and also the ambition of this document which is before us. In this sense, I would like to ask for an answer because I am interested in: What kind of network is needed to enable investments, €460 million, to begin at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u236	As far as the state, state and government are concerned, they are very ambitious in pursuing these objectives. We and the team are ambitious to keep track of all the goals, this year we hope that we have purchased green energy this time from the Czech Republic, but that this will not happen again in the future. But then we have to stop this kind of bottleneck that's happened in Styria in the last two years. I hope that next year, next year, these narrow throats of the few thousands will be eliminated. All the rest are excuses; also that the network cannot. Some say there's still a lot of spares. So, this is a vital message. What is he doing and how the SODO planned, why not, how is it, I will not comment on this today in front of the National Assembly because the government is first, the assembly first, and after we have all the programmes, we will be able to comment. We can also meet in Parliament on this subject, but these open and ambitious objectives must be pursued. Definitely. Also as far as investment is concerned. We still have up to €460 million, with the Fund for Reconstruction and Resistance, I stress that we have received €80 million. Also, with what has happened in the past, from 120 to 150, the amount is fixed and the network remains the same as it is for now. In addition, it would be unfair to burden the inhabitants at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u237	The procedural proposal has a mag. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I think that this is a very important topic that I have opened, and also questions that are raining on the basis of these answers that we have received, so I think it is good that we have this conversation together. We must be aware that SODO is a system operator of the distribution network and that it should be the first to draw attention to all the anomalies that occur on the distribution network. And of course, I'm not protecting anyone, I'm not justifying any delays that are taking place anywhere, but the basic task of the system operator of the distribution network is to warn if any of the electricity distributors does not perform their task or is in breach explicitly, so they explicitly violate the instructions given to them. In fact, we have one anomaly or one particular feature on the market that we have a company that rents a network and services from companies, and the state has a concession contract signed with the SODO, and if someone fails to comply if the SODO cannot comply with the contract to the State because its business partners do not comply with it, the SODO should be the first to warn. At that time, therefore, since the new government and the appointment of a new director, Mr Stanislav Vojska, has not received any warning, nor has it been found that the previous Director would have acted in any way wrong. Therefore, the question of responsibility, a little wider responsibility for control and control is raised here, and, of course, I ask for one in-depth debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We have two more questions. The latter, Mr Boštjan Koražija, will ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u240	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Minister, 30. 6. you visited essentially the most beautiful and also the oldest city in Slovenia; you are said to have been to Ptuj. As part of that visit, I believe you have also received presentations of the problems of this archaeological museum or the problem of the archaeological exhibition itself. Since 2011, the Ptuj-Ormož Regional Museum has been without adequate facilities for a permanent archaeological collection, which behaves with the status of a collection of national importance and covers more than 500 thousand artifacts. As you know, in 2011, it is said that the museum was occupied from the premises of the Dominican monastery to the building on Museum Square 2. Given that you are a historian by profession, I believe that when we talk about these museums, when we talk about these archaeological collections, even about Ptuj, that you have to lie on your soul or on your heart, because as a historian, I believe that you respect and also know how it is necessary to preserve this historical past in terms of collections or artifacts. I'm interested in the following: Can you give me a clear answer to what you agreed to at that visit to this archaeological museum or archaeological exhibition? Since 2011, there has also been a debate or discussion that this old vineyard should be an open-ended archaeological exhibition site or an open depot. I want to know: How do you feel about this problem, or about the establishment of the archaeological museum itself, or an archaeological exhibition of an open-ended type? Have you dealt with this problem more specifically at the Ministry? I believe that even at the time of these budgets, you have also been contacted or asked how and what, because in this case, too, the local community has jumped to the rescue and is already working on this or is already working on the possibility of putting at least some of the artefacts that can be put out in the open as soon as possible. As a matter of fact, I'm interested in being a historian. I'm interested in being a minister. What's your opinion on this? In view of the fact that it is also the oldest city, I think such an archaeological museum or archaeological exhibition of an open-ended type in the grain shop would also be worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Yes, it would be nice to know that those who are in the oldest city in Ptuj are also aware that this is the oldest city and that they are most attentive to the legacy, the heritage they manage and live in. As you know, the historical archive of the Museum was not active, but these decisions were actually made in accordance with all the rules and also in accordance with the congregation and congregation commitments. In fact, from 2004 to 2008, the historical archive from the Dominican monastery moved into the former agricultural combination, and this archeological collection of Ptuj is now deposited here. The municipality is actually the owner of this house and this former building of the agricultural combination and the municipality has committed itself to also arranging the exhibition area and of course it is not. At the same time, if you are from those parts of the house, of course you know that the walls next to the monastery of the Ministry of Culture are being repaired by this wall, where the lapidaria archeologically for larger and heavier pieces of this archaeological heritage will or may be created. For the congregation has failed to fulfill the promise that it will also finance what is in its jurisdiction. In fact, the historical archives moved from the Dominican monastery and the congregation was obliged to rebuild the Dominican monastery. In 2011, she moved from the monastery archaeological collection, deposited it — what I said — into this former agricultural combination and decided to restore the monastery. So she promised to make an exhibition space in this combination — in agriculture, in the former ones — and of course she would not do so. She remodeled part of the church, got European funds for part of the Dominican monastery. This also, of course, resumed to a certain extent, but a large part of the Dominican monastery, which, of course, should be restored — and it did not. In the past decade, the Ministry of Culture has dedicated some EUR 200 000 to all these conservation-restaurant works in the Dominican monastery and expects the congregation to continue to do so, because both the Dominican Monastery and this former building are owned by the congregation and the congregation has committed itself to doing so and has not done so. Of course, the oldest city is important, logical in focus is also cultural heritage keepers, but these obligations must nevertheless be taken into account as provided. But this is one big problem across Europe: the old city’s cores, how to rebuild them, and how to repair them, so that they can live to a full extent. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u244	Madam Minister, under the previous government, the agreement on the restoration of this crop, as far as I know, and the arrangements and procedures have already been made, I think that some things have had to be made more clear or complete in terms of cooperation with the Ministry. The problem that you've also addressed is that you've addressed it very well because you know things, that the problem with these collections is that they've been moved to more humid spaces or inappropriate spaces for these nutrients that are being stored. In view of the fact that we are really talking about very valuable artifacts, it would still be necessary to take a more approach to some better cooperation between the ministry and the congregation. The municipality provided, I think, around EUR 240 000, if I am not mistaken, for this part of the lapidaria or for the open type of archaeological exhibition site. I want to know what I asked you earlier: Were you then familiar with this problem, or were you familiar with it? I'm sure you don't. As it is said, I insist that the ministry should be more active in solving this problem. Our mayor is also working on these matters, so I have no doubt. Also, as you said, people are truly proud of our tradition or our history on Ptuj and we want to present this as best we can to Slovenia and the world. But if there is no possibility of preserving or simply dismantling these artifacts, the problem will arise because this will slowly start to deteriorate. Because even with certain determined measures to protect these artifacts, they will not go unstoppable because they will simply fail. This would indeed be a great damage, or tragedy, for our territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you very much. When it comes to excavations of archaeological and archaeological artifacts, they don't just fall overnight because they were either in the ground or in public space after two thousand years. Certainly some circumstances have changed, including weather conditions, and so on, but this is not going so fast. The Ministry of Culture is very proactive. As I said, it has invested about a million €200,000 in the last decade – I will not now list the exact figures here exactly to the cent, but around a million €100,000 to €200,000 has invested in all these conservatory and restoration works and interventions. That's how proactive this is. However, the congregation committed itself when Maribor thought of the European capital of culture, what the congregation would do and so on, made promises, wrote down all these things, owned the Dominican museum as that former building; everything was in municipal ownership, so it stood up, and now translates its obligations into others. It is, calmly said, a little unfair to say so, but on the other hand, it must also be a little more proactive and proud of its past and the place where it lives and priorities determine what will happen. I said that the Ministry of Culture was very actively involved, proactively, in rebuilding this wall, where it would be possible to build lapidari and for the rest of the Dominican Monastery, it was necessary to provide the additional funds that the municipality must also – on the one hand, it had received European funds – and it could, for example, draw on its own budget to say, but to try and do so. Finally, in 2004-2008, we also restored there, so with European funds, the stable of the castle was restored, where the ethnographic collection was, and there were some problems that needed to be, I think, returned money because the municipality did not fulfil certain duties and so on. In short, the Ministry of Culture favors all those who hold to the word and follow exactly the things and commitments they have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Koražija's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal is to hold a broader debate in response to the Minister, because I think it is a matter of a purely broader nature with regard to conservation or preservation of the cultural heritage itself, or even of this very old, the oldest cultural heritage that we as Slovenians possess. As it is said, this archaeological exhibition is in fact supposed to be or should be arranged in these areas of the former grain shop, and there were many hopes or ideas, how and what. Therefore, I propose that there be a general debate on this subject here in the National Assembly, because, given that I know that, as well as you as the Government, you, too, are repeatedly repeating or stressing only our history or even these past and past history and value alone, it is right that the State or the Ministry should still take a more concrete approach to solving these problems throughout Slovenia, because I do not think that it is only the Ptuj problem with that, because yes, someone says or if you forget about your roots, you never become a tree with abundant roofs and other matters, and it is right that if we want or want to continue to be proud of what we have, but that a wider debate is being held here in the National Assembly. [[…]] I think that there would also be a few other Members from other parts of Slovenia who would like to discuss this more widely and also talk about or present their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now for the last one, Mrs Violeta Tomic. She will also ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Minister, we were very shaken by the events around the central theatre of the Slovenian House of Ljubljana Drama. In fact, Director Igor Samobor resigned irrevocably at the end of November, one year and a half before the end of his term of office, from the position of director of the SNG drama in Ljubljana. During the eight years of his term of office, six cultural ministers have come together, which is already very tragic in itself, but arrangements for the rehabilitation of the facility, despite the frequency of the changes, have been ongoing all this time. We hear strongly conflicting statements from the media about this complication. In view of the fact that the Ljubljana Drama is a central theatre institution in Slovenia and is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, it is quite clear that the country also bears full responsibility for its fate; therefore you, as the competent minister, are the owner's representative. The theatre building is very long, which is also evidenced by static and earthquake safety checks, and it is not particularly necessary to indicate that the duration of the SNG Drama building poses a threat to the theatre, to the employees, and to the visitors. That's why I want to know: For what reason have you interrupted the agreements regarding the rehabilitation of the long-lasting building of the Ljubljana Drama, which has been running smoothly all these years? The former director of Samobor claims that you reject all the conversations you have been invited to talk to by the leadership of Drama, while you claim to have met four times. So I want to know: What was the theme of these discussions, and what were the conclusions or results of these discussions? According to the director, you also intervened voluntarily and without consultation with the expert in the Drama renewal project and requested that storage facilities in the German House be excluded from the project, which was already purchased in 2017. And I want to know: What led you to this decision? We also learned from the media that you requested a revision of the project. According to Samobor, it was scheduled to end in September, and you claim that the Ministry received it on 18 November: Why did you request an audit? What did this audit reveal? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Too bad you didn't specify the questions, I got two lines. The question was: “I will orally ask the question concerning the resignation of SNG Director Drama and the renewal of the Drama building.” Here you've asked six, seven questions. Of course, I will try to answer, not to avoid, because it is not difficult, but it would be better, because then it would be easier to prepare and even more solidly stand. And here we're going to hunt for words now, and it probably won't be enough. All right, let's go in one order. You claim, in short, that the arrangements ran uninterrupted. Since when? For the last eight years? Look, I was Minister 2004-2008. There was talk about the need to rebuild the Drama back then. 14 years since then they have managed to do everything they were able to do: pre-project assignment, tender an anonymous international architectural competition, in 2017 buy out premises in the German House, 2019 sign a 3-year contract on the financing of design and the start of design. So in 12 years or 14 we could at least start building, say, we could get all the relevant documentation. In 14 years, the documentation was not so well prepared that it could actually assess the value of the investment itself. Now it's my fault; after 14 years or 12 years, it's my fault everything stopped and nothing good was done. And now, Mr. Manager, I don't know that I'm taking responsibility – or what? [[…]] He has them for it — or what? So the minister is responsible, the minister can interfere with the project, the minister has very carefully looked at the project, he met with Mr Samobor four times, just after one month, when we met for the first time, and then we met three times, i.e. a total of four times. We always talked about Drama. Minister, you're saying he broke up. The minister was the one who put Drama on the list of necessary investments! It wasn't done before. Why not? So the minister did, but he demanded that things be clear, transparent, logical and that things are ready. Things weren't prepared enough. DIIP wasn't done. So it was made for documentation, which was for the collection of investment documentation for 2 million 900, while for the investment itself it was not made. On the basis of DIIP, this was introduced into the NRP, into the Development Programme Plan, which was also impossible to do, and of course there was no way to obtain a building permit. Things have not been resolved with regard to a plot there and with the service routes and the plan itself, which we have carefully looked at, has been presented several times, and, of course, my questions have not been sufficiently clear and unequivocally assured that things will be solid, secure and before we go any further, all the grounds must be given. The former President of the Council was also present and, of course, similar records exist. So that's not a problem. If the house is worn out, if the house is dangerous and I don't know what, the principal also said such a little good, I won't do anything. [[…]] So if the house is in danger, if there's a danger to the people, let the house close immediately. Let him call the inspector and have the house shut down if he doesn't meet the terms. Because it's the principal's duty to do it immediately. He's not in debt to the minister because he can't walk from house to house and deal with electrical wiring and stuff like that. If that's the case, then do it now. The Minister himself did not get – so I will not be again because the stupidity in this world is one of the championships actually in the environment in which we are. [[…]] So I didn't get satisfactory answers about how the house is going to build, how it's going to protect itself, what the conditions are. Of course, I demanded firm assurances from the Minister, so I didn't get them. What else can I say? Audition. We received the audit actually on 8 November or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u253	You're out of time. You'll probably be able to continue. The Member State shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u254	Minister, you will have the opportunity to answer my question as to what happened to this audit. I asked you very specifically about this retreat and the crisis in Ljubljana's Drama. It's clear what it's all about, and also by accident, since you're defending yourself all the time, I'm not attacking you as a culprit. I'm just saying that we say different things and that people from the media do completely different things. I want to hear because you're talking on some TVs somewhere in a third party, and I want to hear exactly what went wrong. Because the Central Slovenian Theatre Institute has lost its leadership in conditions that the Coronavirus has further exacerbated and crippled cultural life. And you're telling me to close it. Do you, as minister, stand by that if it just collapses, if it's in bad shape, we just shut it down? What will you do with the players, the program, the tradition, with the importance of this institution? But I think it's your responsibility to keep it. And it is in danger that the SNG Drama will be completely suspended as a theatre, which would only mean a failure to respect the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of a public institution in culture. That's why I want to know: What are your plans to solve this crisis? We know that you've sharpened this fight now, that you've withdrawn, that you want to have some solid assurances, and you've looked closely at the project, as you say. How will you make sure that things are solid and secure? How are you going to solve this problem? What steps do you think you're taking? And please also tell me the contents of this audit, which was clearly the reason for the project being stopped: What was wrong with the content of the audit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u256	Look, ma'am, once again and kindly please, next time, let your objections be specified. Ask your questions to specify, not in two lines. Every minister has a lot of work to do. I really can't think of talking to you here right now. The audit was — what? That it is not possible to assess in particular the value of this investment. Because there were four different figures in the investment, even five, 21 million, 26 million, 40 or 45 million, 58 million, without VAT and so on. Nothing has been put in place to determine precisely or at least very closely what the value of this project is. This has not been done in 12 years. And now he wants me to say that the house is about to fail and that this institution is about to end. Do you think if we continued with this project to make the house – what, how would you say? But to continue my work in situations like that, as you claim, is half to break everything, or what? It'll crash and it'll be dangerous. Yes, if it's dangerous, the Director is responsible, because that's why the Director is, for God's sake! And besides, he's got four million to maintain, and in the last two, three years he's got two million and a half million to maintain the house. And that's what the funds are for. What are we gonna do? Given that you claim to be in such a hopeless state, we will, of course, go to immediate reconstruction and rehabilitation in the existing hubs, so with the existing gauges, we will provide energy, as I would say, a sustainable renovation of the building with the European funds available, and start with reconstruction. This will take at least as long as other things do. One year. The house according to the concept which the gentleman with his ability has led him to be in one year and a half or two years since I was a minister, and six years ago, he has not obtained consent from a neighbour's house, but he is truly extremely capable. So he didn't set up a plot where you couldn't get a building permit, and he wanted to build at least 10 meters deep under the house. The Minister will decide after the third person. It will decide and go to a sustainable renovation of the building within the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan and order the renovation of the house in the existing slums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u258	Of course, we need to talk about this, because the Minister will decide in a third party. It's easy to argue, Minister, but I've been asking you questions and I don't want to argue with you here about solutions. Now you're saying you're going to be doing renovations in the existing slums. Okay. You mentioned that there were four different numbers in these calculations. And we all know that when you start something in the old buildings, there are usually three other problems. So I don't know if you'll find your budget. I am happy if you have a plan, but really, once again, I ask you to provide us, I believe that you have not brought it with you, the Committee on Culture, this audit report, to see what has made you so angry that you have stopped it all together and in what time it will be done. What's going to happen to the employees this time, a whole bunch of questions are being asked, which are completely justified. You know, now you're being insulted because someone dares to ask you a question. My question was specifically announced: at the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I ask you about the resignation of Director of SNG Drama Ljubljana. So, what are we talking about? About the rehabilitation, the reasons for the resignation, and so on. In short, you say the director is responsible if the house is in bad shape. That's why he gave up because he can't answer to any of the employees. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because he's incapable, you say, of course. That too, but listen to the minister, that's possible. It is possible, but I want to be president of the Committee on Culture and as a professional actress not only your judgment to say you are incompetent, but I want some concrete evidence. I would really ask you to give them to me, even if in writing to the office of the Committee on Culture, but above all I expect to talk about it. Because if we lose the central theatre house in Slovenia, then we really have a cultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-13-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We've exhausted all questions with this. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby terminate the first item of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, 14 December, at 9 a.m. It's a nice evening for all of us. Goodbye.
