ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 88th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dušan Verbič, Franz Jurša, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 16:00 on. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 88th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda was received on Wednesday, 1 December 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal for an extension of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 122nd meeting, on 1 December 2021, that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Services Act should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 43 Members and Members, with their first signed Dr. Matthew T. Vatovci, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are therefore going to consider the requirement that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services as a matter of urgency. I give the floor to the applicant's representative to request Dr. Mate T. Vatov to present the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u2	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everyone. As advocates in the democratic opposition say, we propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, decide again whether the Health Service Act should be considered in accordance with an urgent procedure. In fact, we are assessing that this is not a necessary procedure in accordance with the business provisions, that this law does not make minor changes and, in particular, that it is not necessary to prevent any major damage to the country in the opposite direction. The government argued the adoption of the law by urgent procedure, because we have an epidemic and because health care faces many challenges from waiting days to lack of personnel, but the truth is that the epidemic exists, but the disease is not officially declared, and since March last year the government is now coming in November 2021 with some law that is supposed to solve it. What is really behind this law is that this bill attempts to deregulation medical and indirect health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. After an emergency procedure, things are accepted without consideration, without a medical cash register opinion, for example, without any discussion or confrontation with stakeholders in this system. A basic licence is being introduced, which we do not even know what it is, which the Legislative and Legal Service has already established in its opinion. It gives additional powers to the Medical Chamber and this is probably one of the main reasons why we should be suspicious of this proposal. If we just look at the Court of Auditors' latest report on how the Medical Chamber worked and what it has found, we think that this institution should, if so, be given less powers than it has, not more. So this will in fact be a debate on who to regulate and how to regulate public health and such things cannot be adopted by emergency procedure, quickly, without a broad and inclusive debate, so we propose to all Members and Members that this law be adopted on a regular basis and that today this urgent procedure is rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: “The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act shall be dealt with in an urgent manner.” If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 42. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the proposed law will be dealt with by the Assembly following an urgent procedure, tomorrow, 9. 12. 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 23. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the agenda of the 88th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE PREVENTION OF ADVANCEMENT FOR ADJUSTMENTS IN HOUSES FOR OLDER CITIZENS. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by the Group of 39 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 39 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mihi Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Maybe I can start with a position after the hall calms down. [[hammering]] Thank you, Chairman. The homes of the elderly are neglected and are humanely fed. This is not a condition that has occurred with Covid-19 epidemic advention, but a situation that has been going on for decades. The original sin in this situation can be traced to the lack of State involvement in the management of the care of the elderly and the complete absence of investment in both infrastructure and personnel in this area. It is only by looking at the standards and standards of care in the homes of older citizens that we can quickly determine what time it is. These are 40 years old. But in those forty years, it's changed a lot, a lot. In some cases, the homes of older citizens have turned into nursing hospitals. The life expectancy among the population has increased, and the need for health care has also increased, which elderly people should enjoy in the homes of older citizens. Sadly, however, the pace of filling the homes of the elderly did not follow. We have already encountered borders before the epidemic, what can be done and what care can be provided in the homes of older citizens with limited staff numbers. That's why the long-term absences have multiplied. Also among nurses, nurses, caregivers, and other staff, there are reports of burnouts, burnouts, and so forth. Of course, we in Levica have greatly cheered up the information that finally the salaries of the staff working in the care of the so-called medical proletariat will increase. Unfortunately, we estimate that this happened too late, after we had been in the covida-19 epidemic for a year and a half, that the expected rises were going too low, the real wages of this medical proletariat should have increased more than they were, while at the same time a government raise is promised so that certain groups of employees in older people's homes are completely out of the picture, but a positive step in the right direction, which we have greatly increased. Then it's a shock. The following information, which was initially silenced and also silenced to the engaged trade unions in the negotiations, was that 16 million euros from the annual raise in salaries of nurses and other staff in care will be placed on the shoulders of caregivers by raising care in the homes of older citizens by almost 6%, and we know that care in the homes of older citizens is now very high, on average 680 euros, while our pensions are very low. We have almost 100,000 pensioners who live and go to pensions under the risk of poverty and, of course, pensioners and their families who help them finance the cost of care, such a raise of care can't afford it, but the government didn't want to hear about it at first. At the same time, when Minister Tonin signed an agreement in Rome to purchase a new military aircraft of 72 million euros, his client colleague from New Slovenia rushed to argue from the Ministry of Labour summit that these 16 million euros could simply not be found in the context of public funds and that the elderly and their families would simply have to eat this cost with higher care. However, because civil society has become involved, because we have become very involved in the democratic opposition, the government has finally been forced to give in. Just a few days ago, so the coalition group stood in front of the cameras and said that they would still find these 16 million euros in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that the guardians would remain at this level as they already are, but, of course, as usual, the devil is hiding here in detail. Although we have succeeded in the democratic opposition and civil society that the Government has agreed to public funding for the full increase in the salaries of staff in health and care, this is done in the form of an amendment to the Long-Term Care Act, the Long-Term Care Act, which would privatize the care of the elderly also as a result of the fact that the supply prices for the future will rise even more than they are at the current level. And even now, under the conditions of existing regulation, we can find that the provision in private concessional homes for older citizens is almost one third higher than in public homes. This gap will continue to increase in order to further privatise this area. Therefore, this government promise of public funding, which is linked to the amendment to the Long-Term Care Act, is a way of taking the height of caregivers, elderly people and their families hostage and then blackmailing the whole country to support a harmful law that needs to be completely rejected. However, in Levica, we are putting ourselves in a position that the Government may not expect or may not expect a coalition, that is, whether it is a long-term care law or not, we take it for granted. The salary raise of nurses and other staff in the homes of older citizens must be and will be financed by public funds of the Long-Term Care Act up or down. Therefore, the meeting of the committee at which we discussed the same recommendations as they were discussed today was as meaningful as today's meeting. On all this issue, more appropriate compensation for the salaries of employed nurses and other persons in the homes of older citizens and the level of care has also opened up the question of how the rates of care in the homes of older citizens are determined at all and how it is possible that prices in public homes for the same care are not the same as in private concessional homes. The answer is contained in the regulation on which the Ministry of Labour sits and which provides that private concessionaires may, in addition to the cost of the service to the level of the care provider, add to the cost of the investment or their credits they used to invest in the construction of the homes of older citizens and also for the end of the day for profits. Of course, this is not the case in public homes. In the public infrastructure home and its costs are provided by the State, [[sign for the end of the debate]] Providers and their families only cover the costs of the service, while private individuals, including concessionaires, also account for profits. And this is also the theme of today’s meeting of the National Assembly. I think we need to talk not only about the fact that the caregivers stay the way they are, but also that they are going down in the future, especially in the case of individuals who also calculate the profits and the cost of profits they bear on the shoulders of the elderly and their families.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Vojk Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On 18 November, when the government paid salaries to health and social workers, it was immediately warned that an increase would undermine care in nursing homes. A well-deserved and fair salary raise followed by a forecast of a raise in the DSOs. We didn't think it was right for the Sab client. We have therefore tabled an amendment to the budget to ensure that the necessary resources from the state budget are not raised. Then we read the responses of Minister John Cigler King, who even defended this raise of custody. I quote his tweet, with which he responded to our criticism of the increase in care: “We have survived the epidemic thanks to the most burdened workers in health and social life, the rise in wages is also necessary due to the departure of people from these sectors. Most of the resources are provided from the health treasury and budget. We believe that the price rise of 5.6% is justified and reasonable." The salary raise relates to about 200 jobs, which means around 35,000 employees. The agreement and both annexes signed by the government with representatives of health and social services unions mean higher wages for 80% of health workers, as well as 80% of social workers and 40% of employees in the J pay group in health and social care. The financial consequences of wage increases were estimated at €37 million in the framework of the baselines for negotiations in the area of social protection and close to €86 million in the area of health. According to the Ministry of Labour, 17 million in the field of social protection are to be provided by a health treasury and 4.2 million by a state budget. The remainder of the 16 million, however, would provide the institutions themselves, by raising customer care. Minister Janez Cigler the King estimated this to be justified and reasonable. But the fact is that wage increases should eventually be financed by providers, pensioners and their families, the most vulnerable groups. According to September 2021, 97 000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros, a good 143 thousand below 600 euros and almost 284 thousand below 700 euros. The average basic monthly care in nursing homes currently amounts to €680, which means that a large proportion of the elderly already today, before the expected increase, cannot pay the care in the DSO. Although the coalition has given in under pressure from the democratic opposition and the general public and with the ad hoc amendment to the proposal for a long-term supply law, it has provided funding for 2022. But we're not serious about that. Why? Firstly, the Long-Term Supply Act does not offer systematic wage financing and is severely harmful to the professional and lay public in view of all the comments made. Secondly, the vote on the long-term supply law and the proposed amendment of the coalition will be carried out tomorrow, which means that we do not have any assurance that the law will be passed at the end of the day. However, wage funding is guaranteed. We are always in the SAB, and we are now defending thesis, and we will therefore continue to fight that every pensioner of 40 years must have such a pension so that he can keep care at home. It is unacceptable that the government wanted the cost of wage increases to pass on to one of the most vulnerable groups. We therefore oppose such government schemes and call on them to ensure that the financing of salary increases is provided as proposed, i.e. by redistributing resources in the budget independently of the fate of the long-term care law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u7	Thank you very much. At its 66th emergency meeting, on 2 December 2021, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the working body as a parent. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a recommendation regarding the prevention of the raising of care for elderly persons in homes for older citizens, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matei Tašner Vatovec. The Committee was first provided with material. In the work of the Committee, the Ministry of Labour, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Health and Social Welfare Union, the Pensioners of Slovenia Union, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia and the Society of Silver Strings participated in the work of the Committee. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled for the new points of the recommendation. The representative of the proposer spoke first and presented the proposal for a recommendation. She then presented her position to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who presented their opinion and said that the National Assembly could make recommendations taking into account its constitutional position, by which it also has a legislative and electoral supervisory function in which it is competent to monitor the phenomena and situations in particular areas in order to take action under its jurisdiction. That content, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, is based on the applicable business arrangements of the purpose and nature of the recommendation as an act of the National Assembly and relates to the competence of the Government under Article 38 of the Public Finance Act. In view of the above, the Legislative and Legal Service has no comments on its tasks to the proposal for a recommendation, nor has it commented on the amendments tabled. The representative of the Government, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Janez Cigler King, presented the Ministry's work in this area and ensured that there will be no increase in the supply of supplies under this government. With the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups on the proposal of the Long-term Care Act, the budget will cover higher social protection labour costs by the end of next year. The salary raise will not be financed from the provision of services and the claim of the applicants is therefore unrealistic. According to him, investment in the care of the elderly is significantly higher under this government. Representatives of those invited to the meeting urged them not to raise their salaries at the time of the raise. In principle, however, they advocate that the Government provide more money for the elderly. They also pointed to the still unsigned agreement on standards and standards. The representative of the Community of Social Institutions, however, considered the adoption of today's agreement to be a step in the right direction. The debate highlighted the view that it would be more reasonable to provide money by redistributing budgetary resources, since the financing of salary increases must be independent of the fate of the long-term care law. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Mr Cveto Uršič, said that the Government cares about the most vulnerable and stressed that the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia is 12.4% and the average in the European Union is 16%. The salary raise money will be provided from the budget. Some discussers stressed that the Government is doing well and taking care of the most vulnerable categories. In their view, the call for today's meeting of the Committee is irrelevant, as the proposal for a long-term supply law introduced an amendment to the coalition parliamentary groups that will cover the budget for 16 million salary raisers. In the debate on amendments to the new points of the recommendation, some discussers pointed out the high supply prices in Slovenia, which, in their view, are also due to the fact that in the area of long-term care, there are increasing private homes with concessions that can charge under-laws to residents higher prices of osquies than in public homes. The Committee also voted on the point of the proposal together and did not adopt it, and therefore the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation regarding the prevention of the raising of care for elderly people in homes for older citizens on the labour market has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u9	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Janez Cigler to the King, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd like to speak with you. Dear Members, distinguished Members, guests! Full care of the elderly is one of the three central priorities of my mandate. It has three broad areas, the strengthening of more than a decade of neglected accommodation, the resolution of human resources issues and the cessation of the departure of employees from social care sectors, and the establishment of more appropriate human resources and institutional standards. In all three areas, in a good year and a half from taking responsibility for this area together with the team and also with you, honourable Members and Members, I have provided the results that speak for themselves. At the same time, we were all still protecting these most vulnerable in social security institutions from a difficult epidemic due to COVID-19. the proposer, both representatives of the proposer may have cited some real facts here. I have now repeated several of them that the area of human resources and institutionalism in the form of buildings, inappropriate buildings, has been completely neglected for decades. However, the first representative of the proposer did not say the key point that this neglect in 2020 had also ended in the most challenging circumstances. As soon as we took responsibility in March 2020, we fully focused on this area, started working together with the community of social institutions, unions and everyone else, including the respected National Assembly, to start with intervention measures to protect the most vulnerable in the homes for the elderly, and then with systemic measures such as the investment cycle as for the care of the elderly in Slovenia. Right now, we have over 120 investments open and we're opening them up. And on the other hand, with extensive investment in personnel, so interventional that we have provided over 650 additional employees already existing 12 thousand in over a hundred homes for older people in Slovenia, that we have burdened them, that we together, thanks to their merit and their great sacrifice, have endured this demanding time. So in 2020, we provided together more than €120 million of European and state investment to rebuild homes for older citizens, and additional beds and care for a more secure environment in social protection institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today, together with the five directors, I have already signed the first React Investment Contract, where €93 million is available to raise the standard of accommodation for our oldest, most vulnerable and we will still sign these contracts. 17 performers for 18 projects have been confirmed. When the Long-term Care Act is adopted, not only will it ensure an even smaller share of the budget for the urgently needed increase in the salaries of those most burdened in homes, but it will also allow the drawing of 59 million resources from the Recovery and Resistance Fund, which will once again require a financial injection into this area and will focus on this money for newer, more modern Community accommodations for the more dignified lives of our oldest. The representative of the proposer mentioned a false dilemma or home and there employed or equipment of the military. The false dilemma of the lady and gentlemen. Both. You had the opportunity to arrange the money for both of you, but you didn't arrange any of this. Soldiers walked around in torn boots, domestic workers were left to the mercy and mercy of the virus, and so on. Both this Government and this Government are aware that they have a responsibility to all areas and care for the decent lives of the oldest at the same time for a decent payment to those who work with the most vulnerable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Members of the groups. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u12	Thank you so much again for saying that. Dear Members! In just over a year and a half, we did a huge job of caring for the elderly in the coalition. Hugely important steps have been taken and many solutions have been found to improve the situation of pensioners and elderly people. Let me mention just a few. We have raised guaranteed pensions, we have paid twice the solidarity allowance for pensioners of between 150 and 300 euros. In addition to the system's regular harmonisation of pensions in 2020 of 3.2 per cent, the government also carried out an additional extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2 per cent in December 2020. Pensions were also harmonised at the beginning of this year at 2.5 per cent. At one time, we corrected the injustices of more than 56,000 people who had not been recognized by the time of the purchase, even though it was paid fairly under the rules in force at that time. We've done the wrongs to the farmers' insurance companies. We have received a shorter transitional period to equalize the dose percentage for men with a dose percentage for women. We have also corrected a number of other injustices that are linked to the most vulnerable groups, where the elderly clearly also belong, and have also begun to invest in building a home for the elderly, as the Minister for Labour has said earlier. All in order to improve the quality of living of the elderly. Today, however, we have before us a proposal for a recommendation regarding the prevention of the raising of care for elderly people in nursing homes, and let me just say again that there will be no raising of care for caregivers. But let's go in a row and get back to where it all started. It is a fact, honourable Members and honourable Members, that we are still in an extremely difficult situation and that since the beginning of the term of office, this government has been dealing primarily with the disease COVID-19. For the first time, we have found ourselves in such difficult situations, and we cannot compare them with anything else. Of course, sacrifices, care for patients, fighting for lives, dealing with losses take place most in hospitals and in nursing homes. In particular, the first wave was particularly affected by the latter, where there was already a shortage of both spatial capacity and specific personnel before the epidemic, which we have been warning about all along in the past, and nothing has changed. Today, however, it is changing, and this must also be said from this city. Things are changing today. At the time of the epidemic, however, this lack of spatial capacity and specific personnel was even more apparent. Therefore, the specific staff is not sufficient because there is no suitable payment. And others who work in nursing homes are underpaid. In situations where they had found themselves on the edge of their capabilities, this was felt even more. We all know that this is also a very difficult, difficult work, but at the same time a noble work. And because of everything that's been said, the government has decided to raise wages in these professions. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 11. 2021 The government signed an annex to the collective agreement with representative health and social services unions. And because of the rise in these salaries, which was necessary, and I am glad that the government also recognized this by listening to these professions, which are undoubtedly very burdensome, so because of the rise in these salaries, which was necessary, a little over 5% of the caregivers in nursing homes have been raised. And now we're going to be hiding from the budget a share of this increased supply, for the period from 1. 12. 2021 to 31. 12. 2022 in the amount of €16 million. We will resolve this in the transitional provisions of the Long-Term Care Act. So we have provided higher wages to those in the homes for the elderly and other forms of institutional protection, and now we will make sure that the raising of care will be financed from the budget and not from the money providers' wallets. The most vulnerable groups, including the elderly, should not suffer from a raise in care. This is therefore regulated in the transitional provisions of the Long-Term Care Act. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, I hope that at least this solution will not be the subject of a political struggle and that all of us sitting here together in this National Assembly are aware that we are here to improve the quality of living of the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. An agreement was signed in November on emergency wage measures in health and social protection activities, bringing about 30,000 workers in health and social protection. In LMŠ we certainly support and welcome the salary raise, but the government of Janez Janša did this, as well as a number of other things, with a fig in her pocket. At the time of the signing of the agreement, financial resources were not fully provided by the State. The expected financial implications were estimated at around €86 million in the framework of health negotiations and 37 in the area of social protection. The last 17 million euros would be provided by health bills and 4.2 million euros by the state budget. Up to the full value of the projected financial implications in the area of social protection, there remain the poor 16 million euros left to provide, as proposed by the government, to the social welfare institutions – said by raising consumer care. In our view, such an arrangement is unacceptable, so we have tabled a request for an emergency meeting of the National Assembly to be convened by the Group of Members of the Democratic Opposition, in order to call on the Government to provide the necessary resources from the budget. Apparently, our engagement has produced fruit and encouraged the government or coalition MPs to recognize the mistake they have made. Last Thursday, the day the work committee meeting was scheduled to address this issue, the coalition Members rushed by submitting a supplement to the Long-term Care Act, which would provide funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to cover the salary raises for employees to prevent the increase in the provision of supplies. If we didn't know the whole story, we could even say that the purpose of the coalition Members is good. Unfortunately, it's not this time either. The means to achieve the objective are wrong. The fact is that only an amendment has been tabled that has not yet been adopted. If we assume that the amendment will be adopted, the issue of the adoption of the whole law will continue. The adoption of an amendment in an unaccepted law means nothing. We know that the Law on Long - Term Care is poor or practical, even unconstitutional. Therefore, the law cannot be supported. However, if we assume that the law will still be adopted, the fact is that a referendum can also be declared on the law. In view of the widespread opposition to the law, this option must be taken into account. And in that case, what will it be? What if the marriage at the referendum isn't confirmed? How will you provide funds to cover salary raises? You won't. You'll allow me to raise your custody. 254,000 people live below the poverty risk threshold, of which more than 97 000 are pensioners, representing 19.5% of all pensioners. Even now it is difficult for them to afford to pay their allowance, and a raise would cause them further hardship. But you obviously don't care. The proposed amendment does not show the intention of coalition parties to resolve this problem, but merely that you want to create additional pressure on opposition parties to support the Long-Term Care Act. Because otherwise you will say that we did not support the provision of funds to raise wages. Wrong. This law is not the place in which this would be regulated. This law is bad, it has to be rejected, and funds to raise wages are needed elsewhere. We have proposed a solution, a reallocation of budgetary resources. You have a marriage basis for this, and this is the best solution right now. You had the opportunity to provide these funds for the consideration of the changes to the budget for 2022. There was an amendment on the table to sort it out, but because it was an amendment of the opposition kind, you simply rejected it. And you calmly rejected the well-meaning recommendation we had on the table last Thursday on the committee. Just as you have done with additional recommendations made to prevent high prices in private homes for older citizens, by concession, by charging certain services as additional services to the Ministry of Labour and by recommending to the Ministry of Labour to prepare a legal change that would allow for the maintenance of the right to a protective allowance for persons in full-day institutional protection, in a social security institution, and with regard to the abolition of inheritance restrictions for the prostitutes who exercise the right to exemption from payment of social security services and contributions to the payment of funds for the payment or payment of family assistant rights. After all this, I cannot conclude anything but that the government of Janez Janša and the coalition Members obviously does not care about the care of the caregivers at home, for the elderly. You have also proved this during the entire epidemic, with a careless attitude towards them when you have not protected them from the crown virus and you continue to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u16	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows, Fellow Members. Social Democrats welcome the agreement reached on emergency wage measures in the health and social protection sector. The pay raise agreement is thus expected to bring higher wages for around 35,000 employees or for more than 80% of employees in health and social services. The agreement is particularly welcome, since at the time of the Covid-19 epidemic, the already burdened and poorly paid personnel bear the greatest part of the burden of our joint effort to overcome the virus in caring for covid patients. This severe epidemic has certainly shown how important their work is and how indispensable workers in health and social welfare institutions are. Nevertheless, we believe that employees in health care and social security institutions deserve higher wages, and it would be totally unacceptable for us to have the cost of raising wages in nursing homes on the shoulders of residents or their relatives. To the surprise of all of us, the day after the agreement was signed, we received information that homes for the elderly themselves would have to cover higher labour costs by raising one care for their users. According to some estimates, supply prices in nursing homes were expected to rise by 5.6%. A salary raise for caregivers and other workers in nursing homes would be paid by one of the most socially vulnerable groups. Most of the residents in nursing homes or their relatives have found it very difficult to cover the cost of accommodation and care. Just as we were surprised by the information that the increase in wages will raise the supply price, we are also surprised by the move of the ruling coalition that tabled the amendment to the long-term care bill. With the amendment, the ruling coalition provided money from the budget of €16 million to finance higher labour costs in homes for the elderly in 2022. Of course, we welcome the amendment. We are convinced, however, that the ruling coalition would not have submitted it if it were not by the civil society and the opposition so much pressure on the government to provide these 16 million euros in the budget. The last minute of this amendment, just before the Committee, also indicates that the ruling coalition is addressing the issue of financing long-term care in a non-systemic manner. The money for the higher salaries of employees will only be provided for 2022. However, in 2023, higher labour costs are already to be financed from a long-term supply system for which no system-wide funding source is provided. It is generally known that in health and social welfare institutions they constantly publish calls for vacancies in the field of health care and care. He's even looking for students and students. There's not much response to the calls. According to the survey carried out by the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, only half of all published job vacancies were successful last year, with only 29% of job opportunities being successful in 2020 as a nurse. The lack of medical and nursing staff is particularly critical in nursing homes. However, the human resources crisis will not only be solved by a one-time rise in the salaries of employees, but in particular the working conditions need to be improved by raising staff standards. We need to ensure fair remuneration for employees who will be sufficiently competitively rewarded in the same activities across borders or in other sectors, and we must ultimately facilitate the employment of workers from other countries. Above all, we must ensure that the cost of solving the human resources crisis does not go fully to the elderly in nursing homes. Therefore, we should now adopt such a Long-Term Care Act, which will include systemic financing in the form of solidarity social security for long-term care. Thus, until 2025, we will solve the human resources crisis by means of fire-fighting actions in the form of urgent agreements on higher wages and budgetary transfers of funds to finance higher labour costs in nursing homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon. Caring for the elderly this key part of our society is not implemented by the Government, does not implement a minister, does not implement a policy, do not implement businessmen at the top of companies selling care in personal homes for the elderly, care for the elderly are carried out by people, workers, and workers in homes for the elderly, peaks. And these workers and workers earn a decent salary for their hard work, for their sweat, for their three-time schedule, for their weekend work, for their holidays, and for their peaks. This higher payment must be measured fairly and must be guaranteed, by the point. We have warned of too low wages and inappropriate working conditions in the homes of the elderly in Levica several times. We have always proposed solutions. The government and its Minister of Labour, Cigler King, announced a few weeks ago the intention to raise the salaries of employees in the homes for the elderly, but with the announcement also came Greek news that raising wages in the homes of the elderly intends to partly fund the government directly from the pockets of the elderly and their families. In Levika, such manoeuvres, which do not result from the so-called rescue of one sub-paying group, deepen the hardships of another group from the edge, that is, the elderly, are not accepted. The government idea would raise the cost of home care by 5.6%. Therefore, in Levica, we have proposed, following the recent adoption of budgets for the next two years, that the budget line for long-term care should be increased by €16 million, thus preventing the embezzlement of supplies in the homes of older citizens, our amendment by the government party was not supported at that time. We have not given up in Levica and have called upon the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide 16 missing millions by redistributing budgetary resources by making recommendations. If the government found 72 million in the same budget on the same day to purchase a warplane, it should also find 16 million for the fair payment of employees in nursing homes. Although the recommendations were completely rejected by government parties, under pressure from the Left, the opposition and the general public, they have nevertheless promised to provide budgetary funding for the cost of raising salaries for employees in older people's homes, thereby preventing the rise in the cost of care for the elderly and their families. The government has therefore committed itself to provide the missing 16 million and to prevent the projected embezzlement. However, instead of providing money by redistributing budgetary resources, they have tabled an amendment to a harmful long-term supply law that provides funding for salaries for one year. Here in Levica we remain in the position that the long-term care law is harmful, as it brings about the liberalisation and privatisation of the care of the elderly, as well as long-term incentives and poorer and unequal access to long-term care. We will therefore vote against that law, i.e. long-term care. From the government, regardless of the fate of the law, we expect budgetary coverage of the cost of raising wages. We are disappointed that the coalition has not supported our recommendations, which have also tried to solve the wider problem of high prices in the homes for the elderly. In addition to the financing of salary raises, we have also proposed recommendations that touch on earnings in private homes, the unjustified double charging of social care services, the incomprehensible withdrawal of a protective allowance for residents of the home and the incomprehensible and harsh conditions for obtaining social assistance for the elderly. Let me first touch on the profits in the long-term care system that this government continues to support by granting concessions to private capital. The high supply prices in Slovenia are also due to the fact that in the area of long-term care there are increasing private homes with concessions that can charge residents higher supply prices than are valid in public homes. According to the Court of Auditors, users of Category 1 supply services in concessionaires pay an average of 27.7% higher price than users involved in public institutions. Recent concession invitations will lead to a significant increase in the proportion of private homes compared to the public, which means a general increase in supply prices in the homes of older citizens. The price difference is due to the specific right of concessionaires to charge the costs of investment or their own loans at the cost of supply. Moreover, the system allows users to over-expenditure the costs of private operators over longer periods of time, thereby providing net profits to private capital. Regrettably, the Coalition rejected the recommendation that such earnings should be limited, as well as the recommendation that the right to benefit from the cost of supply should simply be abolished. For the next time there has been a double charge and a surcharge for social care services paid by elderly people in their homes from their pockets. The actual cost of care is much higher than the formal cost of home care for older citizens, the real cost of staying and care at home depends on additional payable services whose scale and prices may vary in individual homes, although, for example, assistance in staying, dressing, moving, walking, assistance in communication and legislative orientation is clearly defined as part of social care, most of the homes of this service charge additionally. Residents have already paid a high price for care in a social, protective institution, so it is inappropriate to charge them extra assistance, such as cutting nails, dressing socks, sitting in a wheelchair, etc. The Court of Auditors also found irregularities in this area. In spite of this, the Coalition rejected the recommendation that the Ministry make it clear that social care services should not be charged to residents, and that it should establish the Minister's mandatory consent to the prices of additional services. The next problem is the fact that the elderly lose their right to a protective allowance when they are admitted to their home. The actual cost of care, or the price paid by the elderly to stay and care in the home of older citizens, is also significantly affected by the provisions of social legislation. This is particularly important in low-income and income-free elderly people. An essential part of the available income of serious older people is a protective allowance, and single elderly people without their own income are entitled to a security allowance of €591, which they lose from the day they are admitted to the home of the elderly. In addition to the loss of independence and autonomy resulting from the loss of own income and the right to have access to it, the financial burden on the supply and stay of the home is placed entirely on the family, the user. The Left suggested that beneficiaries should retain this only when they were admitted to their home, but also rejected this recommendation by the Coalition. The last problem we wanted to address was the confiscation of property for families whose elderly benefited from the exemption from social security services during their stay in their homes. What's this all about? If the elderly person or his family cannot pay, they may apply for the exemption of payment of social security services, but this exemption is not social assistance, but social credit. Social credit, since the State or the municipality by exercising the right will acquire the right to take property to the death of the elderly. The limitation of inheritance, particularly in force under the Social Security Benefits Act, provides that the inheritance of the property of the person who has been exempt from the payment of the security shall be limited to two thirds of the amount of the exemption costs. The consequence of this provision is that the elderly and their families are denied their social rights because of fear of losing their property or transferring their homes, dwellings or land to their children and grandchildren. The government has not supported the recommendation that this pre-modern social credit mechanism be abolished. The SDS, NSI and SMC therefore agree with the succession of poverty or the nationalisation of the personal property of the dead, poor pensioners. We are, therefore, pleased in Levi, that the Government will finally devote these 16 million euros to the urgent wage raises of homes for older people, but the problem of high supply prices, the high prices of housing remains unresolved. The envisaged liberalisation of long-term care, the privatisation of its implementation and the granting of concessions to private capital will only increase the problem of high prices and lack of availability of care. In Levika, we will therefore continue to insist on a fully public and solidarity-funded system of long-term care without demeaning criteria and conditions for its universal accessibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the coalition encouraged the Government throughout the epidemic to repair certain salaries in the field of social and health care, so we were pleased that the Government adopted an annex on 16 November to the collective agreement on health and social protection workers. The Social Security Employees Annex amounts to EUR 37 million. Approximately 16 million of this amount could mean higher care for nursing homes. Slovenia is a rich enough country to cover this amount from the Slovenian budget. We are very pleased to note that by the end of November, we had earned 63 million more in income than last year, and for 70 million we are overtaking last year's income tax revenue from legal persons, so on the basis of these good data, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that the budget takes care of the 16 million euro mentioned. On the basis of the conclusion of the annex, the average wage will increase by 8 per cent according to the applicable standard of average wages, at the discretion of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which could therefore affect approximately 4 per cent of the average debt of institutional protection services. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are aware that during the Covid-19 period, the most burdensome caregivers of the homes of older citizens were and are still in addition to health personnel. This staff has done a lot of overtime and has been insisting on their ethical condition for a long time. They came home tired and didn't have time for their loved ones because they cared for others, so it's right and fair that they get the right payment for their work because we are aware and notice that a lot of staff with professional knowledge is leaving home for the elderly and from health institutions to completely different areas where for less difficult jobs they get a substantial higher payment. In jobs where employees carry out basic and social care, wages in most jobs will increase by 3 to 4 salary classes as a result of the annex. In the case of social security personnel, salaries will increase by 4 wage classes. In individual positions of professional workers in CSD and DSO social worker, psychologist, home aid coordinator will increase wages by two wage classes. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we want every worker to receive a fair pay for the work done and those who work should not be poor, so we have not supported the opposition recommendations on the parental committee for work, family, social affairs and disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Proposals for a recommendation regarding the prevention of the raising of care in homes for older citizens claim that the increase in salaries for workers in care and health care is intended to shift to pensioners and their relatives. According to the applicant, the elderly or their relatives are expected to pay about 5.6% of the higher care for their homes. We agree that this increase in supply prices in nursing homes could indeed be the result of a signed agreement between the Government and representative health and social services unions in November. This agreement will bring higher wages to more than 80% of health and social workers and 40% to J-group employees in health and social services. The financial implications of this agreement are estimated at EUR 37 million. A few more than half of these funds will be provided at the annual level from the Health Insurance Office. We agree that this raise in wages was necessary and necessary and that this raise in wages should not burden the money providers' homes and their relatives. We already have some guards in the current legislation. For the most vulnerable, we already have a legal basis in the Social Protection Act, which requires the congregation to pay for their stay and care in nursing homes. It is true that this burden falls first on the family, but only in the next phase of the congregation. Therefore, in the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have tried to find a solution which, in relation to the possible increase in the supply of supplies due to the above-mentioned rise in the salaries of social workers, would at the same time constitute the legal obligation of the State and not merely a recommendation of some kind. In practice, supply prices are harmonised once a year, in March. With regard to the possible withdrawal of care, we have proposed to supplement the Long-Terms Act, in which there will be much more talk tomorrow in the framework of this extraordinary meeting. However, it is important that, due to the social situation of most users of services, which has been partly exacerbated by the co-vid crisis, additional financial resources are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible to cover this increase in the salaries of social workers. If we also have the opportunity to decide on the above-mentioned Supplement to the Long-Term Care Act and we will actually confirm it, from 1 December 2021 we will be able to provide funding for the co-financing of additional labour costs resulting from the introduction of the said Annex to the Collective Contract for the Activity of Health and Social Welfare. We have tried to find a more binding solution with the coalition partners in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties instead of the recommendation. And we found her. For this reason, we have rejected the recommendation regarding the prevention of raising care for elderly people in their homes for older citizens on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u24	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Coalition parliamentary groups convened a meeting of the committee responsible for work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities some time ago, where they boasted about what the government had done for the oldest part of our population — pensioners during the crisis. Everything's fine and fine. Of course, we are also happy in the SAB that the most vulnerable and also the rest of the pensioners in these uncertain times receive supplements and reliefs. But as always - what this government does, this government takes. Instead of giving the new year's pensioners the Christmas card you promised them before the elections, you wanted to encourage them to be looked after in the DSOs. In the opposition, we therefore requested a call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which we request the government to provide the budgetary resources that would be paid by pensioners to raise salaries for employees in the DSOs with more expensive care. It is unacceptable that this cost of wage increases has passed on to those who are already one of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable groups. An agreement on emergency wage measures has been signed between the Ministry of Health and the two representative trade unions last month. The signing of this agreement commits to better valuing wages for more than 200 jobs in social and health care. This means that more than 35,000 employees in these two activities are already expected to receive a higher salary in December, from 4% to 24%. And we, in the SAB, of course support that. It is known that the financial implications of the social protection agreement will amount to a group of EUR 37 million. One part is supposed to be covered by medical bills, the other part 16 million euros, as has already been said, by caregivers in nursing homes, through an increase of almost 6%. In the SAB, we find it unacceptable that the Government will be obliged to pay almost 6% more than they are paying today to the higher salaries of employees in social care. We strongly oppose that. Pensioners also strongly oppose this. Much of the pensioners living in nursing homes are already having difficulty covering up care and helping or helping their families. For this reason, we have already proposed an increase in resources to raise the salaries of employees in the DSOs when considering budget documents. The guardians would have stayed the same in this way. The coalition roller has unfortunately hit our complement. According to your household, you voted against the provision of money for higher wages in the budget. However, instead of a 500-euro Christmas home promised to retirees, you donated almost 6% of the higher supply. Moreover, the Minister of New Slovenia, who is with us today, added that such an increase in prices is justified and reasonable. Over 5,000 people have died because of your poor response to the epidemic and inadequate communication. Most of those older ones, and that's the ones in the DSOs. Today you even hope to boast about how these sadly empty beds will help you to provide about the same number of new ones, you say, beds in nursing homes. Now you want to raise the financial pressure on those who need the most. That can only be suggested by someone who doesn't care about the pensioners. After our pressure, there was obviously another reflection within the coalition, and you found that we were right and that supplies in the DSOs should not be increased. And we are pleased that you have made this thought and we thank you on behalf of all Slovenian pensioners. Better late than never, our proverb says. Thank you for hearing us, and you promised to secure that money. If you don't keep your word about 500 euros of Christmas for the pensioners, we're happy in the SAB that you've also eaten up the promise of a raise of care that was justified and reasonable in your opinion. Regardless of whether the amendment to the Long-Term Care Act will be adopted, whether or not the Long-Term Care Act will be adopted, we expect in the SAB and demand that this word be made that the caregivers in the homes for the elderly will not increase, hold and realize, and if so, we are glad that we have found a common language at this important point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! 20 years of policy, regardless of the colour of coalition and opposition species, is the question of how long-term care should be managed, who is more responsible for caring for the elderly, or whether it is the Minister of Health or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. He is looking for financial resources for long-term care and he is calculating how to cover the cost for the older population as well. All you want to do is spend the fall of your life in peace, in the warm and pleasant atmosphere of your peers, and in the joy of visiting your loved ones. Today, in formal institutional care, there are slightly more than 21,000 elderly and others who need the support and assistance of health and social staff for their lives. In addition, some 9,000 people are included in the formal care provided in the framework of home aid. At least 1,500 people need immediate accommodation, and about 12,000 of them are listed on the waiting list for admission to their home. Homes for the elderly are not only faced with lack of spatial capacity, critical points are also obsolete labour standards and severe human resources pressures. Employees in health care and social care are overloaded by the number of caregivers to care for 24 hours a day for 365 days a year. The wage for the work of caregivers and caregivers is not only questionable for the worker’s existence, but also shamefully low in terms of the mission they carry out. The past two years, marked by an epidemic of covida, have unfortunately further deepened the problem of labour shortages and the obsolescence of service standards. You could say that in the recent period in the area of long-term care, there have been some improvements. Many investments in the construction and renovation of homes could finally be opened with approved budget documents. Employees in the care of the elderly, both from health care and from social work and accompanying activities, will finally receive an increase in wages. On 18 November, an agreement was signed between the competent ministers and the respective unions. From the press releases in the past weeks, it was understood that part of the salary increase would cover the state budget, part of the health treasury, and the rest would represent an amount that would raise the prices of institutional protection services and would naturally fall on the shoulders of service users and their owners. Of course, in DESUS, we were immediately concerned about whether and how the increase in wages would affect the supply price and, as a result, the ability to pay pensioners, who on average earn €690 of their pension, on the basis of the fact that the average care in the home has already applied just about that much. We have therefore addressed to the competent Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Janez Cigler King, the question of how the Ministry will ensure that these costs are not actually transferred to the residents of the home, and which additional sources of funding will activate the ministry so that the final salaries will be adjusted as caregivers, caregivers and other employees actually earn for their self-sacrifice work. Only a few days later, a request was made to address this issue in this National Assembly. And today we are actually talking about this, but we will not be able to conclude anything, because we have no content to vote on. We will vote tomorrow on a law that systematically regulates long-term care and should have it at least 15 years ago, because we are one of the fastest-old societies but we do not have a roofy and modern regulation. Regulation to regulate the care of the elderly in a uniform and financially stable manner at systemic level. Tomorrow we will also vote that the cost of a recent and necessary salary raise is financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and not from the pockets of users themselves. When we count the votes of the Desus Group, we hope that the green light will prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Good day to you all! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we supported the proposal for a recommendation on preventing the raising of care for elderly people in their homes for older citizens. It seemed unreasonable to us that, at the time of the record budget for the coming years, the boasting of the rulings, as they finally moved to a better place in the area of caring for older people, could not find additional budgetary resources to prevent the raising of care for the elderly in nursing homes. If the opposition, by submitting a proposal for a recommendation in the parliamentary procedure, by precisely this call, has helped the coalition decide to find a will and solution just before the workers, then we can all be satisfied together. Otherwise, when the budget was adopted, when the opposition submitted a supplement to the additional funds to finance the implementation of the agreement concluded between the country and the social partners, but then there was no compliance. At the conclusion of the trade union agreement, the Minister of Labour even stressed that they had sought out all the possibilities for a financial part of the implementation of the agreement. It was not possible to provide for a smaller amount of funds to be recovered from the supply for the financing of the agreement. The minister has also pointed out that no one wants to raise the charges, but that they have exhausted all the other resources. That probably suggests that the raise was inevitable a few weeks ago. Workers and workers in health care and social protection deserve a raise in wages, no doubt. These are individuals who have been in the first battle lines for two years and whose salaries are already so unstimulating that they are very difficult to keep in the system. As a result, the human resources deficit is pronounced, for which the right solutions are not on the horizon. Likewise, the mood among health and social workers has never been as bad as at the time of the Covid-19 epidemic, despite all the positive and encouraging words of the rulings to tackle the problem in their homes for the elderly. This problem is also pronounced within the framework of the Long-term Care Act, where there are also no answers to the questions about how we will address the human resources deficit. That is why not only new accommodations in nursing homes are sufficient, but in particular systemic changes with measures that will address the problem of disadvantaged jobs in a comprehensive and long-term manner. Much more will have to be done to attract younger job seekers into homes for older and special institutions and thus to rejuvenate the age structure of employees. At the same time, we need to be aware of the distress of those in need of home care. Their position is unenviable. The burdens of their care are often placed on the family. Therefore, it is not fair that labour costs, even if they are affected by entirely objective reasons such as rising prices of living needs, inflation, rising energy prices and, finally, minimum wages, are passed on to end-users. Recently, within this House of Parliament, we have been hearing debates about which homes are quality, whether public or private, or perhaps those with concessions that cost more, why it is so and so on. In the spirit of defending our political views, we forget that there are individuals living behind the walls of our homes who instead of arguing that only public homes are good or boastful about providing new capacities with more than 5,000 dead, but of course there are many providers of homes for the elderly, especially those individuals who want quality care and care for their normal lives. Your Honor! The country is mature and responsible as much as possible for the most vulnerable members of its society. Let this lead to all future measures in the area of improving the situation of the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Since we've got a few tickets, I'm going to read some of the debaters. Of course, he will be given the floor first. So the first one's gonna be mag. Andrej Reich, Ivan Hršak, Andreja Zabret, Marko Koprivc, Boštjan Koražija, Mojca Žnidarič. The first one has the word Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. As with all other areas, the issue of care does not go beyond the context of general guardianship for the elderly, especially since, at the same time as today's meeting, the Long-Term Care Act, which we described as a law for the privatisation of safe age, is being adopted in Levica. However, this context is urgently needed in the context of something where Minister Janez Cigler the King took a smooth step and, instead of a diagnosis, analysis, facts, used his limited number of minutes on the speaker to carry out the government's economic and political propaganda programme. Mr. Minister, we're talking about nursing homes and care, not everything, a little over, left and right. And let me go to the points around which I think the most stuck came. Minister Janez Cigler King claims that this government has finally reversed the trend of investing in the care of the elderly. Is it true? Or if it is, how and to what extent. Let's start with the human resources issue. What kind of investments does Minister Brickler King actually talk about? On the committee that addressed these recommendations, which made us in plenary today, we were able to hear representatives of trade unions or civil society involved and this area, which made it very clear that Minister Cigler King did not want and did not want to sign new standards and standards for employees in older citizens' homes. These are the pervasive standards and norms that have remained unchanged for 40 years, and the nature of the homes of the elderly has changed significantly throughout this time, because the life span of the people has increased and because their health needs have increased at the same time. However, the prescribed amount of staff to care for these elderly remains the same as it was 40 years ago, even though the homes of 40 years earlier than the hospitals were reminded of hotels. So these are these unchanged standards and norms, which are rolled from one government to another, all ministers are stamped as the devil's cross, and no one wants to fix them, regardless of whether they are prepared, written, agreed with the unions, but they are behind them with a very clear commitment of the state to additional employment in the homes of older citizens and to provide additional budgetary funding. Of course, if you have more nurses, it also means higher public spending to finance the salaries of these nurses. And that's something that Minister Janez Brickler the King obviously doesn't want, or he would have crossed standards and norms. The second answer to how seriously the Government thinks by investing in personnel, we can see the fact that this increase in the salaries of nurses and other staff, paramedics, etc., occurred too late. Not only is it too late in a broader picture that these people have been fed and underpaid for a very long time, but in the image of the COVID-19 epidemic, we have been declared or not, for a year and a half. For a year and a half, it took the government to repair the salaries of these health - care workers for only three or four wage classes. If they were serious about their intention to regulate the situation at the home of older citizens, this would be one of the first things the National Assembly would get at the table, and virtually overnight we could agree with the unions that cover the health and care staff for the raise. For a year and a half, people worked in suits for 12 hours on tours, fell down, left the home of the elderly at the cashiers' store, because there we arranged for them at least the weekends they didn't have in the old people's homes before this raise occurred. Second. It is estimated that this increase is too modest for us in Levica. These people deserve better wages because they have stagnated for a very long time not only for these few wage classes that you've given them. In addition, some of the service profiles in the homes of older citizens in this agreement with the payroll unions have been abandoned and the agreed raise is absolutely nothing to do and we are talking about those groups that work for the least money. Those who have been released are not some highly profiled professions such as doctors for whom you are, but only for some not all have found also after more than €10,000 in Covid-19 supplements, because they are an integral part of the medical lobby and sit at the top of the food pyramid within the public or private health system. You've given them extra rewards. However, nurses received a few hundred euros each with these against the crown allowances for a permanent increase, which is also moving in some 100 euros now had to wait a year and a half. After all, if you really wanted to invest in personnel in health and care, you would have done what you did in the area of the Ministry of Defence. There you have launched a promotional campaign with which you want as many Slovenian young boys and girls to be suppressed into Slovenian Army uniforms while sending this same Slovenian army abroad also 10,000 kilometers from the border of our country. That's where you found your political will. There you found millions and millions to carry out propaganda. Any comparable political action to raise awareness of the needs and importance of medical professions, needs and importance of personnel in the types of nurses has not been carried out. This has not even occurred to you because this area is not a priority for you, certainly not in a way that will further strengthen the public supply of the community. However, nurses flee abroad much more than doctors do in other professions, while other industries cross the border from pure despair much more often than those already privileged groups can say classes of people in this country who are already well supported by capital, power and influence. What you are interested in is something completely different: the privatisation of the care of the elderly. That what is now considered to be non-profit care is a social service established and implemented by the State for the care of the elderly at their old age, after they have done their part in society, you turn the business into a business, a business that is occupied by individual corporations that even have a chain of homes of older citizens and pay fat to their suppliers and their families for the care of the elderly, which should be a right not a profitable activity. Exactly according to this logic, the Ministry of Labour has also joined the government of Janez Janša under Minister Cigler King since the beginning of his term of office. We have already received 2 calls to praise the government for building new homes for older citizens, which is what the Government is actually doing to privatise the locations where new private homes of older citizens can grow. [[Incomprehensible]] This is done in the full consciousness of a few pages away from the public's eyes because the damn well aware of the following information. The supply in the private concessional homes of older citizens is almost a third higher, more expensive than public homes for the elderly. Why? That's because you pay a living in a nursing home. You pay a profit to this private person who has set up a home and is now on the practically secured market doing business on the account of peeling off, peeling off the elderly and their families. Instead of rejecting this already in the concept of what is said on the roofs of people, on the pensioners and their needs to go into business and hit them, but they already have nothing, you are still stepping up this logic with these two calls that you are distributing, as it were, lucrative locations and options of practically secured business to some private, private corporations even to Austrian and on the other side of the borders in the second round of these calls, even four new businesses have been sent down, why, only why, what can we think with such practice under the government of Janez Janša. But no, Minister Brickler the King did not speak a word about this when he spoke in his position, but instead he referred to how great the European funds from which it was intended to interfere with the strengthening of the care of the elderly. But, ladies and gentlemen, this country has a budget in which people in this country pay taxes and this is the kind of cash register from which the construction of new public homes for solidarity care should be financed and not financed. In the budget for the following year, you have allocated €36 million to the old people's homes, their construction and additions, a year later, this is 2023, you have found in the budget an election of €22 million, forgive me, you cannot say in such numbers that this is actually any priority, especially if we drop this over the lactose paper what is happening to the budget, the Ministry of Defence, which is controlled by the same party, that is Nova Slovenija, 780 million for weapons by 2026, more than €530 million only for armoured men by 2026. Compared to these more than 100 million amounts going up to billions, €30 million and €20 million of budget investment in nursing homes is worth a penny. Humiliating to the elderly, humiliating to their families, especially when the minister then stands before the public and in front of the cameras and boasts about what this government is doing in the homes of older citizens. If anything should be reversed here, without a budget for weapons, then a suitable investment item in the care of the elderly rather than a budget change. Then we were able to listen to certain representatives of the coalition or various coalition parliamentary groups who also provided us with information “see us how great we have been, for two years we have been working hard for the pensioners” and then list and boast with all their achievements without putting them in context, because then at one point their flash fades away and they call for the truth, which they do not want to hear. For example, we have heard this government raise the guaranteed pensions, forgetting to say that we literally forced them to do so in Levica with the amendment that we have proposed that the lowest guaranteed pensions should increase to or over the minimum cost of living, which is EUR 613. And since in the first round of voting this amendment was adopted, the Government simply could not go with its amendment, where this increase for pensioners who had completed the full period of time back drawn up, it rather prepared its amendment with which it overcame the provision, but at the substantive level it only kept it so that today we can listen to the representative of the SDS delegation, who says we have raised the guaranteed pensions, i figo fresco, the democratic opposition with Levica in charge managed to convince you of this, you can say to force whatever else. Solidarity allowances for pensioners also cannot replace serious measures against poverty and also poverty among pensioners, especially if these supplements are paid as unfairly as they are paid. Instead of having the amount of an allowance that would adapt to the specific amount of the pension paid for the individual, we were given such absurdities that two pensioners could have a different pension for only one euro, and the one with one euro higher pension received 50 euros of the solidarity allowance more. We have proposed a better methodology, we have proposed a formula whereby the solidarity allowances paid would be adjusted to the exact amount of the pensioners and that this would be fair, on a curve, not on stairs, and you have rejected us. Which brings me forward to the reconciliation of pensions. I do not view these reconciliations of pensions as a gift to pensioners, as the government wants to paint them, but as a debt created by the unjust past savings, where the pensioners were taken away with a lot of coordination. And if anything, there is now a pre-election intervention in the reconciliation of pensions, but okay, let it be pre-eminent, whatever it is, and I don't really mind. But it's basically just about tearing up what's happened, about the injustice that occurred during the previous Janša government, when the Public Finance Balance Act was passed, and when the pension reconciliations were cut and squeezed. So it doesn't feel like it's something to brag about here, so we can pour ashes first. Not only on the right hand side of Parliament, this also applies to some past facilities, so that the ZUJF and its provisions were not removed more quickly and that the injustices to pensioners were not rectified more quickly. As far as the time of redemption is concerned, another of the wrongs that has been wronged to pensioners in the past, and it must also be said that in Levica we have introduced a law that saved the self-payers, and those who have paid for the pension fund even after the legislation has changed, and the state has not informed them. They continued to pay, and rights full of what they had hoped for could not be used for their payments. This is the first time that we went out with this action, roughly at the same time, when the authorities switched from Sharca to Janša, we were assured that support would be from a number of SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. There's been a vote -- figo fresco, isn't there? Gentlemen on the right have taken the word. Only in the second we really did it. And this is, in fact, what I have just presented, a controversy with context, with some government EPP that I think is pointless to lose words today. Much more meaningful and meaningful to me is to talk about the homes of older citizens. Diagnosis, so much so that we know what was going on and what went wrong, and then we talk about what should be right, and so far it's not working. In particular, I am talking about the Ministry of Labour regulation, which defines how to account for and calculate supply levels in the homes of older citizens. In this rule there is a clause allowing private concessionaires to charge pensioners and their families not only the cost of care but also the profit percentage. And the level of how much private concessionaires can charge here, the Ministry of Labour can reduce, correct, reduce the level of care in the concessionary private homes of older citizens. Don't do that. Moreover, this was the decision we made in Levica to the Ministry of Labour when we, not to the Ministry of Labour, were on the Committee for Work when we discussed this topic a few days ago. Minister Cigler King, this minister who boasted here an hour ago, how much does he work for pensioners and for the homes of older citizens do you think he spoke up and supported it? Nak, the decision was rejected by the votes of the coalition parliamentary groups. Similarly, it was rejected that this Regulation should not only be used in existing supply-reduction counters, but also be corrected and the possibility of charging profits, which is now allowed to concessionaires, is deleted. And if we do that, we will very quickly come to the conclusion that private concessionary care, which now simply parasites on the fact that we have 12,000 pensioners in line for bed in the homes of older citizens, will be reduced to the same level as the caregivers of public homes for the elderly. So they're going down by a bad third. Of course, according to the sad social picture of Slovenian pensioners, these pensions are still high, but if we reduce them by one third or a bad third in concession homes, in one stroke, let's say in the first step, we have actually done a very big deal, given how much nothing has happened in recent decades, in fact not only in recent years. Which brings me to a clear last decision, which was also rejected by the coalition type on the committee, and I don't think I should. This is the fact that those of the poorest pensioners who “revigorate” the maze, the Slovenian social state, are designed to deter them from exercising their social rights and yet come to the protective allowance which fixes their pension up to EUR 590, at the time they leave for care at home for the elderly, lose their right to this protective allowance. [[Incomprehensible]] Thus, their supply does not count from €590 up to what they still have to pay. It is counted from their real pension, which is therefore below EUR 590. So we are really talking about the poorest groups of Slovenian pensioners, those who have really pulled the shortest straw of events in the last 30 years in the pension area. And we've suggested that this arrangement be corrected and that the bob against the wall. They didn't want to hear about it coalitionly. Probably the most perverse arrangement we know in our country, however, is the so-called returnability of social transfers. What this means in practice, in the care of the elderly is the following — you are one poor old man who cannot afford any payment of care in the nursing home. You turn to the state to be excused from paying this guardianship. The state says, yeah, great, we'll cover it with public funds. But your apprentices will have to pay the amount of state aid, in quotations, in the amount of two-thirds, or we, the state, sit on your property, that house that a man may have, a farm, maybe an apartment, what kind of land and seal it, and then sell it off at auction and then sell it in, somewhere on public TRD. It is said that the country is literally poor people, poor pensioners, filling properties, confiscating them, nationalizing them, if you prefer the term, only because they are unable to pay very high care in the home of older citizens at an old age. And then it requires that, in order not to realize this scenario, their relatives, their children, even their grandchildren, pay back two-thirds of the amount of care that such an elder should have contributed, but no, because he does not have the money. I mean, it's, it's crazy, it's not a social state, it's an anti-social state. And then people prefer to squeeze their lives forward, in their old age, they prefer to suffer poverty, rather than to go into such domestic care, simply because they want their sons, their daughters, their grandchildren, their offspring, to come to that humble home for the modest farm that they were "breathing" for, and to work hard for, their whole life. For pensioners who are so poor that they cannot afford a home payment, it is highly likely that their younger family members are also caught in the cycle of poverty. Poverty is something that happens in very high percentages. If parents are poor, it is very likely that their children too will be poor. And these people, not only that no, not that they don't want to contribute to the cost of caring for their parents or their old parents, they can't because they're poor people because they didn't have the opportunity in life, access to social capital, financial capital, and other forms, forms of power, in fact, and acquisitions of wealth that could be summed up through the social ladder and then taken care of their elderly. They can't because they don't have access, they don't know the right people, they don't have the right connections, they don't have the right environment to reward their potential intellectual potential at school, and so on. And then to those people who have already been beaten by the state say no, that house that you might inherit, ha ha ha, no, no, no, no, you won't. Let me pay for years and years of care back for your father or mother who went home. Yeah, you can't, of course, you can't, because you're poor, we're gonna take that byte you live in. This is also something that did not seem to be wrong to Minister Cigler the King on the committee, and the coalition did not seem to have made mistakes or felt inadequate enough to support our conclusions, but rather rejected them. I don't think it's a priority to save poverty, as Minister Cigler King said on the board, but something else. The flow of created wealth from the working class of ordinary people, if you want, up into the hands, in this particular case, within the time frame of private corporations, which would deny them a lucrative location for the construction of private homes for the elderly, so that they can cheer them even more. Accurate intention, which is also expressed and illustrated in the Long-Term Care Act. And I'm going to finish where I started, the law that's meant to privatize a safe age.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is government. Mr. Secretary of State Cveto Uršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These last sentences of the proposer need a response because they are largely misleading. And I'd just like to start at the end. Thus, the poor who are in their homes cannot afford to be cofinanced by the congregation’s residence, then they are deprived of a poor house of their poverty. That's not true. The law makes it very clear when restrictions can be taken into account when the need to recover property can be taken into account. The value of assets up to a certain value shall not be taken into account. It is noted that first care is needed for your immediate family from the heir. It also takes into account what you mentioned as a poor man. So if he's receiving financial social assistance, if he's otherwise receiving it, if he's on minimum wage, what's he gonna come back from? Well, that's not true. You have to tell me exactly what the law says. So that was pretty misleading. Allow me a few other short answers, but the salary raise was in line with the representative unions. Coordinated. There were talks, and in the end, there was an agreement. The representative unions in this area, health and social services, agreed with this rise. That's an important fact. Well, it was a concerted agreement. Thirdly, it was too late to react in the time of the coffin. Yes, they reacted late because the disease was unknown and not all the consequences were known, but already in the middle of the epidemic, €26 million was allocated for additional employment in homes and other institutions as work and protection training centres. There were over 600 new jobs. Well, it was a response. Third, investments that are small. I agree, they're too small, but you said you had to put this in some context. Let us go in the context of a few years ago, when it is one year ago, I will not say it, between 2015 and 2019 there was €0 in the state budget for investments in homes for the elderly. In 2022 there was 38 million, with a balance increase of two, the amount you mentioned in 2023. In 2022 38, in 2023 28 million. In public institutions, you name them state, 21 million were allocated for investments in day-to-day fixed-term centres this year. From this money, budget, 38 million will be built those homes that are really obsolete. For example, home in Hrastnik, which was once a diocese's home. It is really unacceptable that this was allowed for so many years that they were older in such a home. We have a D.I.P., we have everything ready to build a new home in next year or in the next year in Hrastnik. It's just one of the houses that's going to be built. From the European React funds, it is necessary to repeat. 93 million for a higher quality of living in homes. Unfortunately, there are still three, four and five bedrooms. Homes will be built, not more beds, but more quality. Investments are currently being made in more than 60 municipalities in Slovenia for new institutions to improve the quality of life of older people in homes. More than 60 municipalities after Slovenia. And the very last. Standards and norms, what you started with. True, it is sad that years and years have not changed. And I can only speak for this government, for this ministry. The standards for homes are more or less ready, and I believe that they will also be signed in the first quarter of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u34	Thank you. I'm going to be very quick on the points where we seem to have made mistakes. That I have been deceiving you about the returnability and the release of care for the homes of the elderly and how it seals your property, I am not. I am not, because the main purpose of these provisions is to turn people away from the use of their social rights by threatening to take away that property from the elderly when they go to their homes and when they die when the succession process occurs, and their craftsmen and their children, who, like them, have virtually nothing and are poor, are still without it. And because of this we have only a few thousand, I think that 3 thousand 300, if I am not mistaken, are the beneficiaries of this measure, but not significantly more if we know that poverty among the elderly is very high and that it is a risky group, that we have 100,000 pensioners living below the poverty risk threshold. I believe that, in the future, I believe that the unions have agreed to raise wages, but I think why not, nor was this a point of controversy, at last something has changed slightly in this area, but also the nurses and staff unions themselves have said that you have not informed them in these negotiations that you intend to overstretch part of the cost of raising their salaries to caregivers and their families in the form of almost 6% of the raise of caregivers. This is what the unions themselves have said, and that they are opposed to, and that in the negotiations you have briefly silenced them and this rise would have come true, if not in the democratic opposition, civil society and trade unions have also pressed the issue of warnings and put the government in such an impeccable position that something has to be done and it has, has come before the camera and has promised that public funding will be fully and that there will not be a raise of care, no matter what dirty game the amendment to the Long-Termary Care Act is. Now, as it was a few years ago with the funding of the homes of the elderly from the budget, Mr Secretary, I probably know better than you do, because I had quite a few conflict situations with former Minister Anjo Kopač Dark on this subject. And we in Levica have been the ones who have been squeezed and jumped over the head to take care of the elderly and the homes of the older citizens, most of the time drums against the wall, but we have managed at least something, and that is that the limit to the returnability of care in homes and social transfers has been set at the value of €120,000 of real estate in contrast to the value of real estate in its entirety as before. Otherwise, I agree that it is no longer enough to talk only about the number of beds in the homes of older citizens. There is also a need to talk about the quality of care within the homes themselves, and then to provide the community through the infrastructure of the homes of the older fifth generation. However, as much as European funds are welcome for something like this, they simply cannot be our primary source for the implementation of one of the basic priorities that the social state should implement. We have taxes for this, not that we have a fundamental need for outsourced elderly people to European funds. On the other hand, the cost of weapons does not go from European resources, the cost of weapons goes from the integral budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which people in this country finance with taxes. Not for shell casings, preferably hoodies, and I don't know what else, [[sign for the end of the debate]] But much more so that we get quality care for the elderly, new homes for the elderly, better quality and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Yes, now, here we are dealing with practically one matter, which, as I understand it, is already resolved. But no matter what I think, since today is an extraordinary National Assembly on this subject, I think the Minister of the King who spoke earlier would rather bite his tongue. Because he thought he was doing a favor, but in fact, as it turned out and proved repeatedly, he does more damage than gain, with much self - appreciation. He made one suggestion to raise wages for people who work in these DSOs, which is purely fair, right, last time you could say, but then he didn't tell the end of everything. And then here was the problem. There's a lot to say, yes, let's, let's raise our salaries to the staff who work inside these DSOs, which is, to the employees. And then in the end, the government comes up with a proposal not to practically leave anything else but to raise 5.6% of the supply, right? This is the classic operating mode of this government – from one end to another, it gives you a slap. That's it, that's what we're doing right now. But the question was also one another. Because I understood why this was happening. One thing that no one says is what was behind all this. And even why you've changed your mind, I think the idea is now about these costs. Because they stood on the feet of the congregation, didn't they? That was also one of the problems, but nobody says that. Which I'll also tell you why. You have a classic system to boast from one end, how to raise money for everyone, including municipalities with an average, on the other hand, you are right to do so, I deny this matter to you because you immediately gave an opportunity, and what I think is only right is that the other child also has a free kindergarten in school, but at the expense of the municipalities that will pay the difference inside. Right. But if such a law is now being passed, let the state pay from the budget of such a matter. And here's the catch of all this now. Even in this case, it would be best to give more wages to employees, which is right and we all agree, but to raise pensions for pensioners who can't even be by the end of the month, which was insulting to pensioners. And, you know, what Levi said before, on the one hand, he's right. Now, the difference, not always parents pay the difference if the pensioner has a low pension. They quit because they can't either. I mean, I'm talking to the kids from the senior pensioners who are inside the DSOs. And in such a case, who pays the difference? [[sign for the end of the debate]] Yes, the congregation is paying. And here was the problem. I am sure that the municipalities then got on their feet and you understood that the only right thing is, the only right thing to do is to make this difference, these millions, which are, for the payment of these employees, to go to the expense of the integral budget. The only right thing to do is to keep it that way. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic has the following word, Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The salary raise of employees in nursing homes must have come a few years too late with regard to the work being done in the homes and their concern for these elderly people also due to the working relationships in which they operate and also because of the epidemic and covid who know what was going on there. I have listened to the views of the parliamentary groups and I welcome the concern of all the members of the groups for the activities we have carried out so that the raise of wages in the homes for the elderly cannot be transferred to the caregivers in the homes. Of course, I also welcome the willingness and activities of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons who have sought an appropriate solution to raise wages the wage gap is financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and they have found a solution to implement this quickly through the Long-term Care Act, which we will discuss and decide tomorrow. I hope and believe that tomorrow, too, we will vote in favour of the Long-Term Care Act and we will allow the caregivers not to shift their salaries to rising prices in their homes. It is also necessary to say here that this Law on Long - Term Care brings even more than we may not know well. In the event that this Long-Term Care Act is adopted and enforced, the caregivers will also have lower housing costs for the elderly, let me say the case. The gentleman who is in the nursing home in Škofja Loka is classified in the fourth category of dementia, his monthly allowance is EUR 900. In the event that the long-term supply law is adopted and enforced, the cost of dementia will be transferred to the long-term care system and its monthly supply will be EUR 580. In short, I hope and I believe that tomorrow we will also show everything we have said and done today for our oldest, which services from long-term care also need and deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Boštjan Koražija, Mr Jožef Lenart is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u40	Madam President, thank you for your floor. However, I will warn Mr Uršić, the representative of the Government, that this is not true, as the Minister has said before, and unfortunately Mr Uršič has also reiterated. Today, when the President of the Health and Social Welfare Union, Mrs Irena Ilešič Cujovic, said that the negotiations did not discuss that the burden of higher wages would be placed on the caregiver and that it did not agree with the fact that, unfortunately, the purpose was indeed the same as it was, and what is completely unacceptable from my point of view or view is that we are a social state and also advocate the social foundations of the State, that in fact those who are already the poorest or also the weakest in these homes for the elderly or the elderly should actually pay extra for those who are unfortunately underpaid or very poorly paid in the DSOs. So, basically, this is a very delicate or problematic matter, because in such a case it really happens that we should or I hope that it will not have to happen anywhere in the future that we should take care of those who already have at least for those who also have very little. Here, too, I'm going to say, the social state, I'm going to say, some kind of kneeling or kneeling, and I really don't understand this proposal at all at first that you came up with such a proposal. This is because, in view of what the Prime Minister has also promised or even praised, I will also say on Twitter, and also on a European scale that Slovenia, as a country, will be able to afford certain things. And in this case, it would certainly be right not to let these things come out into the public eye at all, or that these things would not be discussed or planned in this way. What is also very specific is, and this has already been mentioned by Mr Simonovic with regard to the law on long-term care, to rule constantly somehow, I will say, conditioning or substituting into other laws of my own, I will say, in this case, I will not say candy, but in fact the facts that should have been regulated long ago are, say, the salaries of these employees in the DSOs are really miserable. And given how hard the work has been in these last two years essentially at the same level as health workers or because some of the workers are also health workers in the DSOs, they would indeed deserve not only better pay, but fair pay. And it is not understandable that after Minister Johnz Cigler the King comes here to the National Assembly and talks about the social state, or also how he respects and praises these workers, and in fact when we listen to the other side, because it is necessary, unfortunately, or it is also necessary that we can hear both sides and the other side clearly say that at the beginning the matter was set up as it was and the matter was completely irregular and non-social and also unfair and also to the employees in these DSOs and also to the providers in these DSOs, because in fact you would have achieved just that or could have achieved just that if this action were to be carried out, then the employees and caregivers would in fact be able to start some kind of conflict, because they would have the feeling that they were one and the others somehow exploited in the sense that they have to make sure that they do so. And that's not right. Because those who know and also associate Siter was very active in Hrastnik at the time of the first wave of the crown, as far as I know, can also tell from the first hand how loving people are who work in these DSOs. I think what they really don't want, and I also know from experience that they'd rather give up the increase in wages in such a case that caregivers or pensioners have to pay more just to make them pay higher wages. And that is the fact that these are people with some principles, with ethics and indeed as a country, we will have to think in concrete terms about what essentially social means or what we as social people want, represent and why we are also fighting as social ones. As I hope, as it is said, that the government will have a hearing and that, nevertheless, this means at least the first part of the budget, but that it will be conditioned by this long-term care law, which is sadly badly written down and would, in essence, do too much damage to all those who have the right or who will actually use this long-term care. Not right, well, I will say, too, Mr. MEP Simonovich, given that he should or should represent pensioners, should understand this, because also from the ZDUS, with the Union of Retired Slovenians, were very and still against this Long-Term Care Act, and as far as I know, it is in this society, I think if I am not mistaken, over 150 000 or even 200 thousand pensioners, I think that somewhere here, right? [[…]] And that's true, one number, I'm going to say, really people who know what they want and what's wrong and what's wrong with them, and if you don't want them, as a representative or as their representative, to listen to or understand their will, which is, they say, right and that they know that this marriage is not okay, then you have to talk to them or even deal with them, after you vote the way you vote. As it is said, wages and even earlier, Comrade Miha has said very well, the wages of all these employees in the DSOs and health institutions should have been better and fairer years ago, but now in some, very strange ways and by force we save them, as they are saved, and it is not okay and it is not fair to them and it is not fair to those for whom they work and live and, as already said, I know that they work for caregivers and patients with heart and soul, and I know that they would also be prepared for this, in such a case that they will have to be blackmailed, in case that happens, that the providers should pay more in these DSOs, including this increase in wages. That's a fact. But, as it is said, these people or employees of workers and workers deserve not only better pay, but, above all, fair pay, says even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm behind the phone. I can't replicate. Joseph Lenart has the word, but Jože Lenart is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, a guest from the Ministry, Mr. Secretary of State, and all present! So, we have a proposal for a recommendation regarding the prevention of a raise in care, namely, it is necessary to know and be aware that the rise in salaries has been inevitable for healthcare professionals, nurses and caregivers if we are to ensure the continuity of staff. Thus, in the area of social protection, in particular in the homes of older citizens, the wages of the lowest paid profiles have finally been raised and, of course, these workers have somehow succeeded now too, I will say, by the government and the ministry, the means of decent survival, while working quite hard and of course responsible work. So, we are also further aware that it is necessary to correct the staff shortage in health care, but, as we said, in the homes of the elderly and somehow without raising wages it would not be possible to achieve full jobs, as young people did not choose to do this work, and somehow there were some who left these jobs to work elsewhere, also abroad. So, this government and the minister from the above-mentioned department, work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities, of course, is aware of the problem and has also approached to solve the problem, which means that the human resources crisis is already being resolved and, of course, we hope that as soon as these caregivers, other health workers, will be more likely to work at home, because home and home is only one and, of course, they have left home in the DSO than in neighbouring countries, where unfortunately so far much better wages have been offered than with us. And the results here, as explained by the Secretary of State, are 600 new jobs, 60 investments are flowing and so on. Things are working out. Therefore, the motioners of the recommendation chose the problem of this DSO pay raise for the topic of today's debate and the concern about the resulting possible raises in care, but these raises have not actually happened yet, but they may have been foreseen. And for this reason, I will say that somehow to us Members and also to the Government, this appeal has been addressed to provide funds to raise salaries from the budget. Of course, between the request itself and the proposal for this recommendation, it has been a good 14 days, i.e. the day we actually started to deal with the matter on the Labour Committee, which was 2.12. prior to the opening of the hearing, it was said that the budget would be provided, but this is an additional 16 million euros. I would also say that, somehow now, my debate today is kind of exhausted. It is right that the matter has happened as it is that in the future we will not lack healthcare workers and caregivers in the homes of older citizens. However, I must also say that the proposaler, with his plan for these rapid recommendations in the Government and, of course, in the light of the fact that he wants to help these users of the DSOs, is also trying to make his cheap promotion somehow on the day that the government has already decided to solve the problem and an amendment to the Long-Term Supply Act, where these 16 million Euros are provided, has been written quickly by one pair of sides of the recommendations. And now I must say that in view of how these problems had been resolved in the homes of the elderly, there were also problems with low wages and all of this under previous governments and under previous ministers. And now I have to say a little bit of this looks like it's inappropriate to make recommendations to this government that solves problems, but at the time you were in the government, some ministers are still present in the National Assembly and you didn't make recommendations, then you could write 100 pages of recommendations to your Minister of Labour and start solving problems, not that the recommendations are now written by this successful government that is solving problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u43	Thank you, too. We've also been joined by a mag. Dejan the Jew, who is next and you have your word. And it's really Jože Lenart's turn. Here you go, Master.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm always with you, if not live, but on TV, you're noticeable, nothing to be afraid of. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, everyone else here is warmly greeted! I may understand this debate not as a political debate in order to argue, but rather a simple debate that for every measure to be taken it is necessary to provide money, because if money is not provided from the state budget, then very serious problems arise. I am pleased that, because of our activities, we may have come to the point that the burden of the necessary increase in wages is likely to be even more necessary in the future, it will not fall on the caregivers at home for older citizens, because in fact they are paying very high salaries and it is good and it is also necessary to act in the future, but also in all other measures I appeal to you to do the same and whoever is in power. Look, at this point, what's only right, the payments have gone up to nurses, it's the most noticeable within the wider system that they're too low, but the problem is that the money is not guaranteed for this, and if we're watching the medical cash register this year without the health care fully operating, I think we're going to find out that the hospitals haven't done for moments or 35 or a very large amount of work that they should have, that the health department doesn't have any surplus. When they have to do things that are urgent, patients need to be cared for, helped, they will be created, you will see in the following year, I have also talked to experts, there will probably be a hole, but we have to help people, and the money will have to be provided, 300 to 500 million euros. I am aware of the need to increase wages, both for older citizens' homes and for nurses' health care, and I hope that wages that are in fact critical within primary health care will increase as soon as possible, even though the number of doctors in primary health care has increased slightly by 13% over the past 15 years, but the crisis is still exceptional. While we will talk about this when this meeting is over, we have an extraordinary meeting, an urgent meeting of the Health Committee, the appeal is, in fact, the following. Yes, new rights, improving the current situation, but real money needs to be ensured, because if we do not ensure what can happen, as we have now prevented the provision from being raised because of this, therefore because of the higher salaries of employees, we also need to prevent it from rising because of the potentially increased costs of heating, heating, even in homes for older citizens and many of them waiting for us all together, here as the opposition is willing to participate. Similarly, in health care, when wages rise and this will happen, it is necessary to ensure that new money is made available. If this is not the case, unfortunately there will be fewer services for the current amount of money coming from the contribution rate and from this unfortunate supplementary health insurance. So I, too, would not argue left, right, up, down, but only come to the realization that to improve the current situation and for new rights it is necessary to provide real money and not empty promises. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Joze Lenart has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, there has been a long wait for this salary increase in this long-term care, or in nursing homes, for these employees, where it is almost the second year in a row that we point out that the highest number of employees are in nursing homes, the largest proportion of those on minimum wage. We have also warned for this reason that we should retain this cadre because, as many of these warnings have been given, it is even leaving because of overload in these times, especially in these times of epidemics. As a second problem, I see the necessity of this raise in wages, also because you talk a lot about these huge investments as they contribute, but I am increasingly hearing that only these investments will bear only a better quality of stay. Now, there's been a lot of talk about how many new homes are going to be built, how many new beds. I am saying this from the fact that, of course, there will have to be significantly more new staff and that there is a new frame in this area, of course, a rise in wages is necessary and probably too little is happening now. However, I would like to draw attention to something else here today. Look, this government has one basic problem. A lot of promises, although little less talk money is enough, this is getting less and less, but especially last year and even at the beginning of this year it was, they were through the emphasis the money was enough, everyone will get it and also investments. Now, as far as investment is concerned, I would still understand, because, of course, in the back of the recovery and resilience plan, there are not only millions here, but billions, of course, we need to make good use of them, and these are not the only funds we can get. The Minister also spoke today about some other sources that are also intended for this area of home for the elderly and consequently also for long-term care, but look, I already think that this river is very famous, it is very easy to invest, build, build, and the problem arises when it needs to be maintained, to care for costs, material, and especially in our cases of cadre and employment. And here I think now is the day of truth. In my own way, I even somehow understand that in this first awkward situation, it was meant to be, as I say today, that we are making a terrible noise to the caregiver. Unfortunately, in this situation such as the epidemic, it is virtually unacceptable that I do not say unhygienic and that is why we all jumped into the luft if I so express ourselves and, of course, clearly to this and you have approached and are now looking for a new source. The amendments on the table and in the end, we will also have one question. But look, the basic problem as I said what's here now, why did you try to avoid and not burden the budget from the start, why? Because the structural deficit is huge. Now, Madam Secretary of State, I'm going to ask. I know that every department you work for yourself, you work and try to make the most of it, but I ask you how much do you realize what our common treasury budget is? Just for a little while. This year, 2021, the current expenditure deficit without co-existence amounts to a deficit of one billion 146 million, representing 10.4% of the total revenue. In the following year – I really want to stress maybe – I am not leaving the context, because this is an integral part – this deficit without current expenditure – needs to be properly understood to increase to 16% to a billion 832 and in the following year, of course, this effect of wage increases in your area will also have an impact and this is not yet in it. That says my question today is your amendment or does that mean an extra budget burden or are you going to make a reallocation? For from this amendment we see only the source of funding for this PPV 26111 item and the content of the provision of rights and a system of long-term care. I take it as an increase in the burden of this item and that this is not the case, that you will now reduce the reallocation of something else. But you know that our amendment, which we were investing where we wanted to save without it, was to reduce each other's items and to cover it up. For we are aware in the opposition and in the LMŠ that this structural deficit is, of course, a warning to us by the European Commission and the rest of the European Union that Slovenia has gone into such a structural deficit that is almost impossible to resolve and that is why this proposal is acceptable only that it is a reallocation. Of course, each way this resource must be found in the account. This part I would like you to somehow try or very clearly explain how this is solved, from which exactly the items, then it goes. The problem is insufferable, if I may make it clear. In the coming year, this will reflect, you'll tell us how or whether it's an extra burden. But if I look at it, then for 2023, the wage items are practically only increasing by 0.7%. The total budget expenditure of 2023 is reduced by 100 million. Besides, it's not so much you just answer for your area, but in a common image I want to point out where our country is going. Now I wonder if wages don't increase, but we know that only the extra personnel are needed for 2023 why, then this item does not increase labour costs, but if in all areas we know that we need more and more, where is this logic on the other side of the source? It is also about the fact that employees will not agree that wages will not increase, but if we boast about what GDP growth will be in the coming years, we know that this is linked, that this issue will not stand. And that's why I'm asking very real questions, although I've put things a little bit wider, but what does your amendment mean now? Is this an increase in the burden of this item, or will you reduce elsewhere to cover the matter? Once again, the deficit is unsustainable and increases to 16% in 2022, amounting to a billion 832 per income deficit. That's what you're saying. There's a danger we need to be aware of. I'm gonna end up here because I'm already pulling things too hard. And I'm really asking for a concrete answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u47	Thank you, too. A representative of the government, Mr Cveto Uršič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The answer is very short. As a result, in 2022 expenditure will not be increased, not on the posts of the Ministry of Labour or on others, as the funds will benefit from the budget item, which is also visible in the explanatory statement, of the funds already provided for in the long-term supply rights we have provided. However, in 2023 and beyond, these resources will, of course, be provided for that part of the supply that is linked to long-term care from the funds raised to provide long-term care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u50	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State. Is it then that you have some reserves that have so far been shown in the budget that we have accepted as reserves or how? I mean, it can't be, if one item is substantive, then it had its weight, some basis that it was intended, as you said, in this item. If this is what it says, the provision of rights from the long-term care system, if such an item is of some value, must have been based on some consumption. That's what it says, from the same line, now you say, it's not going to go up. That's what you say, isn't it? Was it booked before, hasn't been used yet or what? I mean, this thing as a financier doesn't make sense after what it means.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond? No, no, no. Let's move on. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have heard in the introduction that the recommendations are irrelevant, because, of course, with the amendment in the Long-Term Care Act, it will provide additional €16 million for essentially covering these costs, which are foreseen as a result of salary increases. This should be stressed by the fact that this is a non-systemic solution to legislation or this problem. And if there wasn't actually a request for this meeting, we wouldn't be talking about it today. Therefore, this meeting was extremely, extremely important, these recommendations that we have just proposed to the government, because otherwise all of this cost would likely have passed on to caregivers in nursing homes and their relatives, as well as to congregations where individuals are not able to pay for it. While I must say that today's debate, when I listened, I must say that it was significantly more normal than the meeting that was held on the working body. For there was also praise and hearing how this government worked, how they shared. And today I must say that I am glad that the meeting does not take place in this spirit, that there is some solution or consensus that will not come to this lift. But to this rise, it is said, because of this signed agreement to raise salaries for employees in nursing homes, it will not really happen in 2022. What's going to happen in the years to come, I want to know. I'm even more concerned about what's gonna happen. For we have already warned in the opposition, and people see what is happening. There is a tsunami of rising prices both in the energy field and then in raising basic living needs, even municipal services are rising, at least they are forecasting and I am worried. For all these costs, which are plus wages, then the economic cost of the care is formed. And where do these costs go then? Of course, to the caregivers and their relatives and the congregations. And if we're not going to find some source of systemic, how this is going to cover up, trust me, we're going to be in one big trouble in the years to come, not in the years to come, but in the months to come, and that's what we really need to worry about. I absolutely support the signing of this agreement to raise the salaries of employees, but once again, they cannot and must not transfer this burden to the elderly or to their relatives. I really appeal to the government to start thinking about systemic resources, including what will come in the coming months. 1. 2022 will be here soon. The price of energy is going to go crazy, I don't believe that they can do it, or they're going to be looking for resources, or they're going to reduce the volume of services, or it's going to get worse somewhere in the food market, God forbid, I'm going to say this again, and then I'm going to say that I don't want to raise the standard of nutrition in the elderly. Because somewhere they're going to have to look for savings unless there's a price rise. The state won't help. We'll just be in one vicious circle. 'Cause that's not gonna go on. Unfortunately for me, at this point, I must point out that the government did not regulate the prices of oil derivatives when we were warned in time. Now, with today or yesterday's oil derivatives prices have dropped a little bit, but they've reached, I think, top. Everyone has predicted that all costs will increase, both basic cost of living and also service activity is rising, and next year we will have such an increase in prices that people will not even be able to survive easily with a minimum wage. And we can really worry about that. Indeed, there will have to be a future government, not a future government, but a government that will have to provide additional resources and systemically finance certain things. For they are older now, almost half of them are exposed to the ridicule of poverty. Many are completely impoverished. They live in a terrible state, but what's worse. In recent times, they have been faced with major mental problems, and these people need help because these people are being pushed to the brink to give up the last shreds of dignity. And if I touch just the fact that I absolutely support raising these salaries of employees in the health and social sector, which should have been a long time ago. We can all agree on this together. We're not going to be looking for culprits, because, in fact, I don't have much influence at the end of the day. But I've always pointed out that these professions are underrated. And what happened to us? Kader's leaving. The social cadre, which essentially has this social sense, prefers to work in a store, goes abroad, which is even worse. Because they know more about this frame than they know. We need to think about doing everything we can to keep this health and care staff that we have, that we train through the educational system, at home. I am absolutely pleased that this transitional money will be provided to raise salaries in the budget. However, a system resource will also be needed for the other part that awaits us in the coming months. And we will soon face the real price of these supplies. And if you allow me, because you have pointed out many times on the committee, and today it has been pointed out that in the more than 60 congregations, investments will start to improve the quality of living of older people, you have also told new investments, so do you consider or do you have in these more than 60 congregations, including those congregations where you will grant concessions? Because where you granted the concession, the state will not give anything. Why am I exposing this? Because, the Ruše Administrative Unit, the only administrative unit that doesn't have a home for the elderly, doesn't have a public home and we have or have been awarded a concession, to SeneCura, who will build a new home in Ruša and therefore I wonder whether you are taking this future home as a new investment or not? Because then, I have to say that this part of Styria, and so I will say, the Ruša Administrative Unit, is extremely neglected, because we have not received a single euro to help these elderly people, to raise their quality, because I must tell you that the elderly in Ruša, on the one hand, welcome the concessional home, and on the other hand they are deeply aware that these will be extremely high prices and appeal to us all who come from those ends to do something. Because the people who live in Ruša will simply find it extremely difficult to go to home and pay as high a price as is expected. And I know you don't have to explain to me that there's a certain upper limit to the economic price when a concession is granted, but I'm more interested in whether it's true, maybe also, these concessional homes of these, as many as we have, 10,000 new beds provided, counted in these promises. So, I'm really interested. I hope I get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Now, first of all, I would really like to stress and welcome this much-needed increase in the plan of employees in social security institutions. Here I think we all agree that this raise was necessary and we all agree that surely these workers would earn even more, even better, but, of course, we must be realistic. Now, it's always so that raising wages affects the cost of services. Now, I assume that all Members know how public service prices are calculated. Those who were or may still be congregational saints know this even more. I came myself back then, in the previous term, when I was a municipal councilwoman, really to be precise about this information, where whenever we've always confirmed raising costs, I don't know, payments in kindergartens, water, municipal services and everyone who's deepened has seen that labour costs actually have a significant impact on the prices of these services. So, I am convinced that all those who have negotiated for wages and also our opposition that they actually know that there has been no silenced information, but perhaps ignorance or mere deception, I do not know, because the methodology for the pricing of social security services has been in place since 2006, and here are also elements of the price on which the price of services is formed and, of course, the first element is also labour costs, others who have also been repeatedly problematic as well as funding costs, but, now, those who are candidates or currently in the opposition, I think, in all these years, if they are convinced that the regulation is not fair that it should be changed, then they have had a lot of opportunity to change it. Like I said, it's been in place since 2006. So, even coalition Members were immediately aware of what this meant, so when this agreement on the increase in wages was reached, it was necessary, as I said. So we, too, have begun to call on the government to look for these additional funds, or even to look for ways to cover these costs. And we must also be aware that it is not self-evident that the government has found such a solution that these costs will be co-financed, and also that we have now had just the opportunity because tomorrow the Long-Terms Act is being passed, that then we have also tabled the coalition Members these amendments to co-finance these costs from the budget in 2022. Some of you asked, what then, in the years to come. If we're going to adopt a long-term care law tomorrow, which I hope we will, then it will be with 1. 1. 2023 were made for all who are new calculations in nursing homes or in retirement homes, completely different, and people will pay less to stay in homes. We have been told several times today that neither the coalition nor the Fifth Amendment to the Labour Committee have supported, so that the costs borne by the municipalities or paid by the centres for social work would be limited to inheritance, i.e. to the property of the prodigals, why we did not support them. So that's exactly why, like I said, tomorrow we have a chance, and I hope we'll pass a long-term care law. And immediately, all those who are family helpers to whom this property or those payments are now being paid will in fact be saved immediately by the application or validity of the law. They will also have higher wages and no more property, no more books will be on the property. And the others, as I said, with 1. 1. 2023. It is true that not only these social protection laws and those rights, but already the succession law has been there since 2001 that certain costs paid in the context of monetary social assistance and others, I do not know, are being reimbursed. In recent years, this has been eased several times by legislation. And up to €120,000 of property, that is, property values, as we know, are not actually credited to the property at all. So that in recent years something has been done in this area, so the criteria have softened. I have to respond to something else, as has been said many times on the committees and again today. That double charge or extra services, nail trimming. I must say that we, too, have our home in pensioners and no such services have ever been charged. You even dye her hair in there, and they never charged her, except for the haircut. In fact, we had more or more of these meetings. And now the one who wanted to hear it was clearly said there. Home prices depend on supply. And in the first care, who is in the first care that actually pays only for staying, there washing and food, only those who because they don't pay others, can accidentally charge for this polishing of nails that you stress so many times. All others, others, third supply, and they need more care, and that is why they also have this allowance for help and service. And just the amount of the allowance for help and service then raises these classes, that is, the pay grade or the kind of care that is to be paid. And it must not be charged to all others, no additional payment of these services shall be charged. So if this is where it was, because you mentioned the Court of Auditors, then this Court of Auditors is certainly that home to that warning. But you can't do that. But you can be in the first care, where people only pay for housing and food. And then the lady who was present on one of these committees also told us that they are charging them as long as all these services are not more expensive. At that time, they prefer to be placed in the care of two people because they always look at what is better for the people. I believe that, too, and I also say, on our billings, there has never been anything extra charged. Because I say, these additional services, I don't know, as I mentioned, hair dyeing and that can also be done by people through public works. Therefore, we can approve and in recent years more public works in pension homes, so that society and monitoring can also be carried out with such additional services, because they are not services from or work from a working relationship, so that all of this can be done. So that now, as I mentioned earlier, the cost of work, the increase in labour costs has always affected public service prices and I would just like to remind you that the minimum wage that we raised together in the previous coalition is, of course, necessary, but it also has an impact on price increases. Here I have an article that was published in December 2019, which, as of January 1, 2020, will inspire everything. After raising minimum wages, we will have more expensive kindergartens, water, home care, nursing homes, and so on. So that I don't know, I think we all have enough of this information and that we are aware that it is normal to increase the cost of work by increasing the cost of services. By understanding this call from the committee and meeting it more clearly than by popularising the opposition. Of course, if in the opposition you can always talk, yes, the lift was too low, you said the lift was too late, the lift should not be known on the position of the providers, you can always speak like that, you can talk a lot, but unfortunately in the opposition you can do a little less. That is why we have done little less for the coalition Members and have tabled amendments, which I hope will be adopted by law tomorrow. If you're in a coalition, you have to follow the law, you have to follow the rules, you have financial sustainability, so you can't be as attracted to people as you'd like to be. But for people we can do a lot, even wages will be able to have these employees in pension homes higher if we adopt the Income Act in the coming days and the care will be lower if we adopt the Long-Term Care Act tomorrow, so that we have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. [[advertising from the hall]] Sorry, I didn't see. Member Mursich's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Besides, I wasn't completely exposed, but despite the fact that my colleague mentioned that we were playing populism in the opposition. Your proposal now with the amendment is also a matter of populism. If we didn't do this to me on our side, this reference, even this populism of yours, would not be. And speaking of which, the price methodology regulation hasn't changed since 2006. I must say, since I am a Member, I have been warning our former Minister for seven years now, and our former Minister said that they were in preparation for the change, and then I warned your SMC Minister of the quota, and she also told me, and she told me that there were changes that were ready, but we haven't come so far as to see where we are. So I'd like to say that your last minister was from the quota, so your minister could take a step further. But it is true, in these care contracts that are paid in the care of one. I also have to say that I had a key in my home, and we paid it all back up, we paid it hard, but we had it not in the public house, but in the concessional home and the concessionaire demanded an additional payment for each additional service. Unfortunately, it is, and you can be happy that you have a home where they don't charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u58	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Look, things are too serious to go through some valuable populism, but I have to say, if the Moice of Ormož are telling us that we don't respect something, but how the government has to respect it, but the loving God, this government is not capable, I don't know, of sending Mahnič to get Kranjski sausage, so he won't stay in the creque to break some delay. This government is the worst government we have ever had to write laws. Stupid taxes, Andrey from Styria abolishes the legal department at some department, then gets the laws to write out and three dots. And the government is always the Government of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, not mine, yours, ours, theirs, up and down, and the Members are all equally responsible. Now, you know, we're basically talking here about some major violence against women that's been happening to us for at least 20 years. Why? Now, if you're going to watch the structure of the staff at the DSO, you know who works there. In the majority of DSOs there are about 60% of people on the minority, as a rule they are women's sex persons, politically incorrectly they are sometimes called servers, and with these increases, which are now much bragging about and we are going to populism one versus the other, the net salary raise is 22 euros per month. In short, someone from home from our end with such a salary I don't know, and the train gets to Ljubljana and the coffee runs out for a croissant. These are basically some facts and aunts have been quoting me on Facebook this morning, and as long as it's like that, none of us here are blowing how the great leftist is a great right-wing, great nationalist, great patriot, great Eva Irgle on my board notes, because I look at you by accident. We just don't want to see it. The kid, because we have a payoff in second, third percent on the salaries of the most wealthy Slovenians and Slovenes. I admit that I gave up on it, and I got something out of my car, and the director was the former, the ptujian DSO, and she talked about it, and I asked myself, a letter, because if this is the case, these women will not be able to afford DSOs. No way. And if the key problem is for me, Mojca, your MGRT Minister is already the third mandate, if we don't ask ourselves how the intelligence that we have in this society can be integrated into the economy so that we can be included in demanding global markets, this could be a lecture for you by Soni, who went through a serious transition in some company, working to essentially not solve this rebus anymore. Austria, too, you know, I look at the shadow side of our wine road, the vast majority of pensioners, pensioners or people who like different forms of handicaps to fall into such forms of care before, they don't have their own money, they don't have their own income to actually finance it. And that's essentially some kind of square circle, and that's kind of a rib that we have to solve. Now there's something to knock on, and no one thought before us, and now he's saved a long-term supply. You've saved the day. This is about as if Soni wrote the law, and the Slovenians will be the first on Mars, and we'll say that we solved it first, no one has saved it, no Americans have saved it, and then we'll write one article there, how it will be financed, some other law will settle it, and a technical point of some third law will settle it. It's so simple, and unfortunately we're in this state. And we also forget that if you want half of Slovenia to have almost people working in these activities, they will start to think a little bit if I'm already working, if I'm already moving some 100 kilo abbots there, if I say so little in human language, I'd rather work, I don't know, to Austria, to Switzerland, to Germany, because I'll have twice as much income. We actually have to start to realize that too. The square root of this rhubarb is also that our DSOs are more nursing hospitals than DSOs when we look at the supply structure of one, two, three, which we have, in fact, repeatedly stressed and talked about. Our problem is this, too, and the relationship between minimum basic salary. And we could have some exercise here for a long time. Then we know in these difficult subjects that we are going into what I personally call, and let me be forgiven for such a slightly produced form of Slovenian Catholicism. Slapping around the guilt. You're always ours and we'll never save anything. For the seventh year I've been here seven-eighths of the time we've been talking about how others are guilty of something that didn't happen instead of saving something. I mean, I'm already gonna get a stroke from this, frankly. We're taking laws here. We're not a legislative body. We know where the rules are written, we know what the square circle is, we know what it's like with the money, and then one of them is going to go to Italy to buy a plane that others buy for 55 million I don't know about 78 million, and then by the time the pilots go down there, we'll be there for 100 million. I'd like to put these 100 million in these people who work at the DSO. I've already told the young pub too many times, but I had hair when I taught those students in 94 years, yes, we're an ageing society - what does that mean - and we analyzed the Scandinavian policies of long-term care there. Instead of some slapping left and right, you should just take a bite out of it. The vast majority of these women who work at the DSO because they will not even wait for their pensions, then they will pass them on to each other during the pension and will not save the health allowance, but I have sat as Chairman of the Health Committee with both gentlemen and there is some rebush that we have to save. Let's start dealing with this violence most of the time against women, not after we go on Twitter. These are essentially some problems and some things we have and there's no square circle here, so we're just going to have to make money for that. I don't know if the Economic Social Council is sitting together should have sat together 15 years ago and actually settled this story. However, I do not think I am optimistic that one more mandate after the domestically speaking indulgence of this, and this means that we will be able to resolve it in a decent way, we will be jumping into some global corporations that are jumping into countries that are not able to handle it themselves. Profits will be drawn from this, and burned people, who will mostly work for minimum wages in this privatised sector, will then remain on the back of a poor country. These are, in fact, some problems that we should all deal with, but for something like this we need a definitely different composition of the National Assembly. Instead of party benders of such and different thinking people. What I'm listening to is this government, and I don't know sometimes after the epidemic, I just have to drive back to Bashe and drive by the Depala Village and there's no money growing on those pears. Now that you're listening to this government, there's no problem. I mean, money is like not saying anything. During the 11 months of this year, we owed — how much — 2.6 billion — somewhere. Who's gonna pay for this? I don't know, Sonny's granddaughter, 3 years old. My grandson is a year old, and he's gonna have to pay it back. If we keep going like this, then there won't be any pennies, then we're populism. Some guy who doesn't know in 10 years is gonna bow to a million people he's what? Not exactly populism. Come on, stop it. It seems to me that in this country, in this policy, there would be just too many people in need of an extremely hateful shower, and for about a month if you weren't on Twitter, there wouldn't be any harm. There is violence against women who eliminate this activity, not just women, but mostly women, we are being subjected to violence by people who would need these activities because for 20 years it has been done as if it would only be arranged as if instead of a country, I don't know, it would be taken care of by their own. They'll take care of different NGOs. Because they mostly work for the minimum, but if they don't, I don't know, bow to the great leader, you'll spit them up and down. My neighbor, who will speak for me, was just setting up these media for the SDS. And that's actually it. [[…]] We really need some plebiscite elections where citizens and citizens have to make a reasonable decision about who will deal with these matters. If I'm not among them, I'll get through this easily. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mojca Znidarich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u60	Thank you. Now, I don't know who's wearing anything, no. I've been sticking to the subject, to this day, which is, now the other guy who's wearing blouses is talking about some sort of cloning, and I don't know who's been cloning and why the minister for the economy is getting on his nerves. If we didn't have such a great economy minister, we wouldn't have such a gross domestic product growth and so low unemployment. However, in order to keep the staff in Slovenia, we must do something. We have an opportunity, we adopt a law on income, and we can probably keep them more, or we can bring someone back to our border. And there are other things. So to blaspheme, everything else to say, that's easier, yes, than to focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u62	Yes, Chairman, thank you very much. Now, our colleague from the opposition, Dr. Franc Trček, he is always, I find, an ever-increasing fan of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Now he's talking about me in the end. Before that, of course, Mrs. Evo Irgle, before that. Look what this has to do with today's debate. I don't know. Now, from the beginning, I listened to the proposaler, and I didn't agree with him in the introduction, when Member Kordish said that all homes were now neglected, were understaffed and so on. Now, that's not true, especially today in 2021, in December. These are, see, underestimating statements. In 2020, as the Minister himself said earlier, this neglect has almost already been fully completed, the Minister made this clear and the data on the ground show this. From intervention measures to systemic measures, the investment cycle has been launched, which has not previously been implemented to such an extent. There are 120 investments opened, invested in personnel and so on. Now, €120 million will go to the DSOs in the year, in 2020 it was so much given. Thus, the decent life of our elders is what these enormous financial incentives are addressed. And, of course, the decent payment of all employees in the homes for older citizens. As it was said, there will be no raises. Here in the opposition, do not deceive, not intimidate, especially those you claim to be. The increase in employees' salaries is said not to burden the residents of these homes, so be truthful here. These additional 16 million missing, as has been said many times today, will be provided by the state budget, and we have prepared an appropriate amendment to the proposal for a long-term supply law, and this is the solution. Now let me just take a little personal note. It's been a year since my grandmother passed away who's been waiting for her 90s at the home of Danica Vogrinec in Maribor. Now, I visited her very much there, she was pleased herself, we relatives were pleased, including the staff I met, were more or less well-willed, professional, of course, all the roots in the heart, in the effort to do their job well. Now, this house is famous as one of the best homes in the context of these evaluations. Now the European Union for the Elderly has awarded this award to this House of Danica Vogrinec for 2018 until 2020. And that's why, of course, we Mariborians are happy. Once again, it was hugely done. Yet, there is still some gray fox in this area. Since I'm at the home of Danica Vogrinec, let's face it, it has an outdated infrastructure, it's somehow uncompetitive with other institutions. When Minister Cigler spoke today about signing contracts, I can only applaud it. I believe it will also be Danica Vogrinec's home. And yes, because we were a little surprised when Danica Vogrinec's home fell out of the EU's React funds, however, I hope that this new contract of intent will not only record the necessary restoration of existing facilities, but also the construction of new dislocated units, says St. Anna, in Duplex and Maribor itself. Dear Secretary of State, the stojers are counting on you to help us. When Mr State Secretary Uršič spoke about these 60 municipalities in which projects in the field of the protection of the elderly are running, indeed as a Mariborian Member, as you have seen, the opposition Moroccan Members were completely silent, no one remembered the Danica Vogrinec home, I really ask you not to forget our Danica because it is actually a first-class institution, repeatedly rewarded. In fact, it is about achieving this standard as set out in the Regulation on Minimum Technical Standards for Social Security Operators, so that this is in fact also a State obligation, and investment documentation is already at the Ministry. So, more or less, things are clear. To conclude, it is precisely because of these increased burdens of public finances that will come from this title that, in the long term, these costs of the system need to be minimised. And I estimate that with the optimally regulated system of long-term care, which will be addressed by the very long-term care law, I believe that tomorrow we will also vote and save a really very big job for our citizens who are in the autumn of life and really need to provide the area with a hundred percent professionally and by example from abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u64	Thank you. Dear neighbor, I'm a gentleman, and I let you do your commercial, but there's still a way of cutting you up when our Aunt Pepca waited 96 years at Danica Vogrinec's house. And if we were all smart together, we'd move that knowledge that Danica Vogrinec has to a new location, and we'd make a new Danica Vogrinec into the place of the plane. And that home there would be dedicated, say, to student housing, which would actually be more appropriate. Of course, I do not agree with what Kordish is doing, but by saying that something is neglected up and down, because it is actually disrespectful to all of these people who work in these homes for the shamelessly low wages, but what I have said many times, what you also say from the SDS, that after 10 days when you were in power Janša was talking about building, concrete, building, concrete. That's not enough. He's breaking into our personnel. We saw in that marriage of colleague Jasna Murgel of Maribor, who worked hard. I'll see you in health. We'll see where else. At the same time, we are not aware that the real market is the whole world in this area. We've been doing a little bit like that. They'll be coming from the former South. Yeah, why? If, in fact, they have a much better salary elsewhere. And that seems to me to be the way to think and go. About the colleague from – What now? – SMC, in particular or any customer, what is called a Member's bull, and I don't even know if some smoky Cossack bull says that within 10 years it will make us from 2 million to 3 million I don't know, probably they've secretly developed some form of cloning on MGRT. Otherwise, I can't imagine, because I've been teaching from demographic policy for several years. I mean, in Obi or somewhere for a broom or something, let's just go home and have a good night's sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to warn and ask you to protect the integrity of my debate. It is true that I have left behind a few minutes in today's debate, but in all these minutes I have made every effort to take exactly into account all the data we have in the country not only the position, the coalition, however, but certainly I am nowhere near just as little as the homes are neglected. [[Incomprehensible]] Come on, listen to yourself. Because it was an obvious statement addressed to me by a colleague from SDS, and then a colleague of Franjo somehow took him in defence of that SDS debate, he did not. If something is well maintained in the homes of the elderly for the self - sacrifice that burns in them, he strives to do the best he can. This is also not a flat-rate label, but a label that applies to all the homes of older citizens, because we even have a sector that practically lives on the ethical drive and denial of this medical staff. And I don't want any of this lax evidence to keep rolling in after the debate that it just happens to be an accident.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. But this was not a procedural proposal, it was more of a replica and a debate. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u68	Procedural. I apologize to my procedural colleague Kordish because I actually had a few health-related meetings, I didn't even accompany the meeting, but if my neighbor Kaloh is lying, it's not me, it's him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u69	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please be as respectful as we are told in Article 8 of the Code that we have adopted. The representative of the Government, State Secretary Cveto Uršič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was asked twice to explain what it was like to invest in homes in Styria, namely Ruše, Maribor, that end. I said earlier that investments take place in many, many municipalities, all over the regions from Prekmurje to Primorska, from Bovec and that end of Slovenia, i.e. the purely western to the eastern New Town and the White Landscape, including in Styria and with the desire to do so, in order that people who need institutional care will get it near the place of residence or in the very place or closest. The SD delegation asked the Russians. There is really no new construction from public funds at this time, but around 20, 25 kilometers in at least three municipalities houses are being built, so yes, Styria is like the rest of Slovenia, where there are not enough beds according to the needs, there are investments. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Get ready to land Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Many people complain about the situation in our country on social networks and elsewhere, but let us ask ourselves something here. Who is not the majority of the responsibility for the situation that has arisen, and I do not want to leave the responsibility at all to be clear enough. Most of the responsibility lies with those who sat for years and years in the National Assembly and who were in power for years and years. All clear? And when Social Democrats Member Bojana Muršič says, watch out, see what he says are the only administrative unit of Ruše who do not have a home for the elderly. Yes, the shell of Gela, what were you doing? In the last 10 years, most of the time you have run the Ministry of Labour, Anja Kopač Dark and so on. And how do we do that? Under the ministry of Janez Cigler King, over 100 investments are being made throughout Slovenia in 66 municipalities, construction of day centres, short-term accommodations, new homes for the elderly, renovation of homes from 4 beds in double or single beds and so on. And when Ambassador Bojana Muršič, MEPs to Mojci Žnidarič, reported that the Minister was from the SMC or its party, I will say this. When I was under the previous Government, it is called the government of Marjana Sarca, at the Ministry of Labour, and I happened to meet a high official or an employee there, at the Ministry of Labour and I asked him, "What can we do for children with special needs?", this official said to me, "Nothing," I said, "How nothing?", he said, "Yes, bear with me," I said, "I who is the burden?", and this employee said to me, "All from the cleaner to the director are SDs. All clear? I've been very clear, haven't I, and what I've just said is true. And there's one thing I'd like to point out, isn't there? All the problems you are describing here today by the opposition Members have not been caused by the formation of this government. I hope you understand that. However, problems have begun to resolve with the formation of this government, and that is clear. You've created all these problems. This government is also solving your problems. You had a chance to settle things, but you didn't. We're handling them now. We're handling this congested condition. Among other things, it pays employees in the field of social and health care. Janez Cigler King and this Government have provided EUR 37 million for higher salaries of social workers. In addition, at the time of the epidemic, we provided additional employment in nursing homes. That's what we did. However, employees who carry out basic and social care in most jobs will receive an increase in salaries by 3 to 4 wage classes. While you've been talking for decades, writing studies, we're working. And the social care provider, who was in the 19th paid grade, received 892 euros, is going to be receiving thousands of euros in new ones. So, for 150 euros, she's going to get a higher gross salary. And while in the KUL opposition you write programs, you call, I don't know, sessions like today, you write studies, you obstruct sessions, you procedurally delay the adoption of legislation, we in Novi Slovenija in this government execute a coalition treaty, what we said we will do, we do. In the meantime, in the opposition, you are calling for such populism sessions as today’s. And, interestingly enough, since you requested this meeting in the KUL opposition, and this meeting has been convened, we have already solved this problem. We just solved this problem. With the amendment we have tabled in the Long-Term Care Act, we provide 16 million Euros of additional resources to co-finance additional labour costs. This will make it necessary to raise the salaries of employees in nursing homes. So, raising custody under this government isn't going to happen. And once again, there won't be a raise under this government. The Left says it's a democratic opposition. Look, North Korea also says it's a democratic human Republic of Korea. The self-proclaimed democratic opposition, which should in fact be called the Socialist opposition, I say, while you have discussed the problem, we have also resolved it in this government. I am also putting something on my heart for today’s session’s proponents – if you seriously mean that you want higher salaries for nursing and health care personnel, without burdening the caregivers in nursing homes, then I expect you to also support the Income Act. In fact, this raises wages for all employees, including caregivers and healthcare professionals. Now, I see that a Member of the SD, Franz Trček and all the Members here, within the National Assembly and also all those who now follow this, say that from his words people have nothing, but they have from our hard work that we do because you are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u74	Yes, for the first time in the replica, I find that Member Reberšak does not speak what he does, define another. Secondly, money is provided by a respected colleague, so-called, stupid taxpayers, as the minister would say, who you still support. Third time. There is no letter of intent or even a dug-up cave, something that is essentially built. And I'm going to quote Del Boy about you personally. I'm for you, you know what? I'm a black belt and look for Google. [[…]] Origami.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Proposer Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Look, it's happening to us again that we're not talking about the topic that is today and what we're proposing, but we're putting in advertising populism blocks. They are really nothing alike, and they look like they're throwing mud at other people, at MPs, at other people. That's what I don't think is part of our National Assembly. We also have, we have adopted our ethical code. And I think that, the President, that sometimes it is important to warn that they need to hold back a little bit, not to turn into wild fans and advocates of something, speak purely of the third themes. That'd be a first. Because I was also a proponent. We are like a democratic opposition, even though it is using some socialist opposition. I mean, social, socialist, we're talking about this today, right? We gave one warning and one suggestion. The government accepted the warning as well - intentioned and found a way to make the case in such a way that it would not be the most vulnerable, that is, the pensioners, so as not to increase their care, which many cannot pay anyway. Then the congregations jump in between, the children and so on. So there must be a tendency for all of us, and we must also find and make sure that tomorrow pensioners have enough money to pay home for the care of older citizens. I mean, we have to work on that. But talking through each other, talking ugly and offensively, really, really doesn't deserve it. That is why the reputation of this House has been greatly undermined. People don't believe in him anymore. And that's not good. Another thing I'd like to say. This cooperation is necessary. We need to find some kind of agreement, some compromises, some things. We have to listen to each other. Look, it's not just those 42 votes represented by the kubaji, against 41, this difference is infinite, that those 41 don't know anything, but 42 know everything, and they've got all the knowledge of this world. Come on, MPs. I'm moving a little away from the subject now, I'm sorry, but it's a procedure. And with this procedure, with our warning and further procedure, when we come to a solution, a compromise that is good for people. Let's keep this up. And not now to accuse each other, please. And to say that, what, that they didn't do anything, and we did everything, didn't we? We did everything, they didn't do anything. How is it that for the last 20 years, there's been a coalition man at the top of the government? Ten years from now, we're less than seven years from now. Where? Some math doesn't answer. I'm stressing again. Look, let's be kinder to each other, listen to each other and find some arguments. I think that, in this concrete initiative, which has been given to proposers by us, we have achieved something that will be good for people. And it wasn't too expensive, 16 million. But when the government says they didn't share anything before and now they share – how do they share? It's the easiest thing to do. I'm gonna go to the bank and split the money. The bank lends me. Now it's cheap interest, banks have too much money, it's helicopter money, and I take it and I share it around like candy, and then I'm the best government. Look, that's not how talking leads anywhere. We have different views, different interests. And let's respect that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I have been summoned by the Member to warn you that I do not know if you have heard when you were not in the Chamber of my colleague and colleague reminding you of the ethical code for Members and Members and reminding you of Article 8 which speaks of dignity and respect. Let us be patient and give this code of ethics to respect. Sieter has his word and, as last reported, Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, as much as the good evening insists. So today, we have on the table a question of salaries of employees in the homes for older people and the issue of maintenance in the homes for the elderly, or of course the topic between the area and the other issues, but first, as the last discussers, I have to respond to some of the points that I have heard in the debate or something that Reberšek has presented to a recent colleague, who I think is only making his compliments worse, sometimes at least commending Mr Uršič and the Minister now, which in the first person would perhaps remind him that the Government is the executive part of the power that Mr Reberšek is making decisions, but it is his job, however. Now one thing is clear: A government that likes to brag about how much it has done for the long - term care area, the construction of homes, older caregivers, or caregivers, and caregivers in nursing homes has not actually built any home yet. It is not as we have heard before that no shovel has so much as signed any specific contract with any contractor. But they don't count the letter of intent here. The Zasavik Members will be drawn out several times by this famous house in Hrastnik, which is in a truly swollen state. There, the government wrote a letter of intent, and the construction was conditioned by another law that weighs 8 million and must be adopted if it is not at home, but in any way. Today we talk about how people who work, who work, who work, who work nights in suits, weekends, holidays in nursing homes, and how we can raise their wages. Indeed, in the beginning, the Government came up with a bold proposal to throw this burden on the shoulders of the suppliers and the suppliers in the homes and their offices, and then, under the pressure of the Left, reconsidered it and began looking for budgetary resources and essentially redirected them through the Long-Terms Act. But the problem is that the Long-Terms Act is still missing, the Long-Terms Act can go through the veto of the State Council. The law on long-term care at the end of the phase may continue on the path of the referendum. In the end, the Long-Terms Act is a law that does not have a budgetary guarantee. This is the main problem, the main trick and the main lie by the Government, which argues that it thus provides funding to raise the salaries of employees in the homes for the elderly. However, it is, of course, in the broader context of the policy that this Government is implementing in the area of long-term care, one concern, which is significantly more or less one field, which is significantly more worrying. Indeed, the government is already spending a few million dollars, and in fact, the budget change for infrastructure is home to the elderly, but the trend, which is clearly political in terms of the decisions taken, is worrisome. At the same time, it grants 40 year concessions for the construction and management of homes for older private companies. Here we come up with a systemic problem, a colleague and a colleague who will throw out the entire map of long-term care in the country. At this point, I think that the number of 52% in favour of public homes, 48% on the side of private homes or private companies operating homes in Slovenia, with new concessions, with a number of new, 40-year concessions, i.e. with a 40-year strategic, capital development story, which is ruled by its policy of application, this map will be thrown out of all tracks. And so the market will enter the area of long-term care, even more brutally than it does now, followed by a deregulation of prices, because it is a normal reaction on the market, [[sign for the end of the debate]] will be followed by social dumping, deterioration of the level of services and who will be the worst? The poor will be the workers who are already suffering from too low wages for the work they have done, and the poor will be the caregivers and caregivers, at least those who are fortunate enough to get home to their beds at home. In short, privatisation is not the solution, privatisation is the grave of Slovenian long-term care and as far as the law is concerned [[sign for the end of the debate]] I sincerely hope that tomorrow's vote in the National Assembly will fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u79	Thank you very much. And as last reported, Eva Irgle has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I will be very brief, not only because I have about three minutes of time available, but also because I initially explained in the Group's position what is the essence of today's session and what I would expect other debaters to discuss, but we could see that there was a lot of talk about all possible topics, but very little about what is the agenda today. So the agenda item today is to raise custody and let me say it right here again. There won't be any care for the caterers, there won't be any raises for the caterers. This will therefore be covered by the budget, by which we have tabled an amendment in the coalition to the transitional provisions of the Long-term Care Act. Unlike my colleague Siter, who has now left the hall, but I believe he will accompany us in the office, and I believe that I hope and I think it would be good that tomorrow's Long-Term Care Act has been passed. For more than 20 years or so, we have been talking about this, but today this government has come up with a proposal, and I think it is good and it is solving some of the things that are urgently needed to care for the elderly. Now, on November 18th, as you know, the government with representative health and social services unions signed an annex to the collective agreement and, due to the rise in these salaries, a little more than 5% of the care of caregivers in nursing homes rose. First, let me say that it was necessary to raise these salaries. This is about the professions that are at the moment most burdened by covid situations, and it is right to raise these salaries. It is EUR 37 million in salary raises in the DSOs, in the CUDVs and in the VDCs and in home aids, EUR 17 million is provided from the Health Insurance Institute, namely, these funds are for so-called healthcare staff in nursing homes, four million is covered by the budget, and 16 million are social staff and basic care. And these 16 million euros will now be covered from the budget in the transitional provisions of the Long-term Care Act. Which means the caterers won't feel anything from their own wallets. [[sign for the end of the debate]] This raises the guardianship. And that's the essence of today's session. Everything else that has been said here is, in fact, perfectly legitimate, and it is good to discuss where there could be even better solutions when it comes to caring for the elderly. But the essence of today's agenda is that raising the security guard won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u82	Yes, thank you for your word. Of course, I agree with my colleague Irgle on the necessity of this lift, but personally I think that this lift should be a stunt, that those who work on the minimums should have a higher raise with Sonia, and we have proposed, together, how many, a year ago, some rewards for these people, and then you somehow voted it out. But now, in fact, Mrs Irgle has said this in fact to some difficulty in which we have actually forced her out of the opposition, but you know, in the transitional provisions of another law, this will be regulated. Where did you see this in some normal parliamentary democracy? And, you know, some marriage that you're doing advertising for tomorrow, the worst marriage in the National Assembly hasn't come in seven years. A law to which 73% of the eligible comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly. That's basically a fact. So please stop lying, but this government obviously isn't capable of it. I don't know how much he wants to eat. From the fact that Kaloh is lying about Micah saying something to Rebecca, who reads from that trot on the PC, to, I don't know, anyone else, no. It reminds me of that piece of Borghesie No hope, no fear with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I know you know our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I don't know what your replica refers to. I'll get your replica. A replica of the debater, as far as this debate relates to his debate. If you feel that your discussion was misunderstood or interpreted. This was not in this replica and let's be respectful, let's respect the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Duck. We're moving to the conclusion. Who's got the procedure? [[…]] Do you have a procedure? Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u84	Yes, and you respect all Members and listen to the debate. It was very clear that somehow again the slapping of us, and in fact, colleague Starović, who is similar to you after years, explained to you what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u85	Look, Mr. Trček, I will not argue with you, but also, I think it is respectful of all of us to respect our Rules of Procedure. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposal for a recommendation will be given the floor. A representative of the Government, State Secretary Cveto Uršič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to summarise once again what Minister Janez Cigler King originally presented and what I have also pointed out to Members and Members in some of the answers. A raise in salaries for employees in the homes for the elderly, in the work centres and training centres, work and protection, home aid and social work centres was urgently needed. The salary raise in the homes for the elderly will be financed, as we proposed in the amendment, from the budget in one part, and in the part that the lodger is supposed to cover, health services, a raise for these services and a raise in the salaries of health workers and co-workers in the homes from the funds of the health insurance company Slovenia. We are aware that raising supplies at this time is such that residents cannot cover it themselves, so we have proposed to keep it out of the budget, and therefore we have proposed an amendment to the proposal for a long-term care law. Allow me just one more explanation for Mr Siter's debate that nothing has yet been done to just sign some letters that have no commitment. The government has already confirmed the NRPs, and this is the beginning of building a home. With this, the state has committed itself, the government has committed itself to financing these investments. In the institutions from Prekmurje, for example, home in Rakić to clean south, coastal, say in Koper do Kozjansko, to Goranje, for example, home in Predvor, home in Tržič. However, since we have raised a home several times today, it is a home in Hrastnik, and there the DIP is complemented and I believe that this DIP will soon be so ready that the NRP can also be accepted by the Government. So that the investments are already in progress, one is already in progress, and the other are being prepared and believed and will be invested in the budget in 2022 and 2023. Let me conclude, Covid's time has shown that in recent years we have really given little attention to employees, care about the quality of life of older people in homes, care about the quality of life of persons with mental disabilities in institutional protection, too little concern to professional workers and employees working on social work centres, so this raise in wages is necessary and very necessary. On this occasion, thank you also to the trade unions and other stakeholders with whom we have negotiated for understanding, and together we have found an agreement with which we have also rectified what we have neglected in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u87	Thank you very much. There is also a representative of the proposalr, Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Perhaps we could proceed towards the end or finally in such a calm tone, and I will once again commend the matter that the proposal was heard in this National Assembly, even though it came from the opposition. Because the warning was in place and I say it was good for such good warnings to be taken into account more than once, but not to be taken into account only whether they are ours or yours. So, I must say that we are happy that this will happen, I hope that this will come to an end, that the state will actually provide the money, not the provider, who will ensure that the agreed salary increase for these workers is actually realized. That's it. Here. I'm just finishing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. All reported debaters Mr. Kordish, will you, too, but do you have a few seconds? [[…]] [[…]] Here you are, Mr. Kordish, the second representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u90	Only this point, if I have only a few seconds left, that those with the lowest pay grade in the homes of older citizens, with the pay grade under equal minimum wages, no matter where they're financed, will have nothing. Why? Since it is also progressing in wages that are still below the minimum wage, and here the government has not gone far enough, these people have been overlooked for a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u91	Thank you very much. And now we're coming forward. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I find that yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. I'm sorry. There's been some kind of technical error. I'm gonna open the application again. And here I'm going to alert the proposalr's representative to sign up by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, first a representative of the government and then a representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Is everything all right now? Yeah. Thank you very much. We've got three applications. The first is Moica the Boxman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u92	Thank you very much. It must therefore be acknowledged that the government has responded to the difficult situation in our institutions, namely, that it has been preparing or preparing for a long time in nursing homes. For too long, no one has responded to the fact that it would actually regulate the situation in the homes so that the buildings would be suitable, that the equipment would be suitable and that the actual employees in these homes would be arranged in such a way that their work would be distributed evenly and that they would be properly paid. As a result, many of those high - quality personnel went abroad. And they found jobs elsewhere and served and helped others. Even though others are as valuable to citizens as ours in other countries, our country has given education to these people and, after all, some time of employment. Sadly, though, no one can work for a small wage and be exhausted indefinitely. This government has finally listened to the need to settle matters both in the area of infrastructure, where homes must be for older people, not for parole, but for a nice place to live and comfortable enough. At the same time, the elderly must also have the opportunity to be provided by the employees, who are satisfied with their work. This government has also arranged wages in this way. And, of course, it must be said that this increase in wages will not be tolerated by the caregivers. Everything is later regulated by the law on long - term care, which is an excellent law. Take care of all who need help, whether they are elderly in nursing homes or very sick in nursing homes or those who are at home and can do something for themselves, but they need help. The Long-Term Care Act in some way also solves this situation in current residential homes, while at the same time improving the situation of the government's commitment and approval of the law, the adoption of a law giving these homes, as well as health institutions, a total of EUR 2 billion. Given the increased inflow of taxes, taxes are collected in good time. That is what Mr Simič, Director of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, said yesterday. It's been picked up more than last year, and there's no problem with that. In view of this, it can be expected that this law will, of course, be enforceable, as well as the law on investment, as well as the law on long-term care. I am proud to be part of this call of the National Assembly when only something has happened to people. For all people who are vulnerable, as well as those who work hard and must be paid fair wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The government is working. The government works so that it originally wanted to shed this promotion, which comes with a year of delay. Given the democratic opposition, we would have resolved this between the second and the third waves of the epidemic covid, but not now that she wanted to solve it in such a way that she would have slipped over the shoulders of the caregivers and their relatives, and as the colleague of the Vojko said very nicely, then after the breakup of the opposition she went to regulate it in the previous decisions of a law that you so franticly praise, and in fact, the entire profession was torn apart by someone else and a law that essentially does not save anything. That's actually a fact. Now to brag about how we're more tax collectors this year. And dear God, we were in lock down last year. If you don't do something for three months, then next year you're doing something that's probably going to be a war of more universal equivalent, or a penny is going to be paid, more taxes, more excise duties, and so on and so on, and we're going to have a bigger overflow of inflation at the same time. We have economic growth and with inflation growth, we are in the middle of a higher interest on the country's indebtedness at the same time in the SDS, and you forget that two years are coming when the old interest rates are higher than they are now at the country's indebtedness. Okay, let's go, then seriously talk about numbers, but not like some Tarzan all over the world didn't exist in front of me. In fact, I am pleased that Mrs Škrynjar has literally said that the first and second government of Janšev obviously did not just some SD government did what they were supposed to do. At least a little self-criticism makes me happy, but it just seems like it just got away by accident. There's still a challenge in front of us about what I've been saying. It is also a challenge to what Micah Kordish said. It is also a challenge for some of the next government to seriously ask what is the minimum wage which, personally, I think must be at least 20 per cent above the threshold of calculated poverty, and which must also be the basic salary, from which all the allowances are counted for both employees in the DSO and elsewhere, and I hope that the next composition of the National Assembly will be one where the public use of the mind will reign again, which is basically the most generally accepted definition of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u95	Unfortunately, there's no time-sharing replica here. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will continue where my colleague Franjo is finished to equalize the lowest wage class with the basic salary, the minimum wage is that, this is one of the great tasks that awaits the next coalition and the next government not that we are facing the same situation as we now have, that we have wage classes that are below the minimum wage level. Then what happened to certain professional groups inside the DSO salary rose by 3, 4 salary classes — in fact too little — but these people will not have any of them. Why? Because even with the rise of these wage classes, they will not go over the minimum wage, but obviously the government of Janez Janša, when preparing and negotiating for this increase in wages with the unions, they were not interested, as the entire mandate already shows where its priorities lie. In rewarding the powerful, powerful, rich ones against whom they themselves roar as against the first-class, and then we get the necessary 16 million euros that they could use from public funds to cover the payments at the expense of raising salaries in the homes of older citizens there is just one problem. And we have Minister Cigler King when, at the same time as his client colleague, Matthew Tonin from the top of the Ministry of Defence, he buys a military plane for 72 million euros, stands in front of the cameras, and declares that unfortunately, public funds that could cover salary increases from the budget cannot be found. I am pleased that the coalition has then turned the board and is boasting at today's meeting that it has promised these 16 million euros from public funds under pressure from civil society, trade unions and also from democratic opposition. If there was no pressure, the caregivers would rise by 6%. This was already a predicted fact. Fortunately, we managed to throw it away and turn it around. But in fact, the human resources problem in the homes of older citizens, as far as people deserve a raise, and I think that the one they have now is too low, is rather compensation for past denials, and this is very incomplete, as anything else, less important than the general human resource shortage that we have in the homes of older citizens. Less important than the fact that we have 40-year-old standards and standards, in which we do not even have enough jobs on paper in senior citizens' homes, for the quality care of the people living in them. And we can ask ourselves, a sad rhetorical question, how many pay grade is worth a broken spine? Nurses, including other staff, all who deal with caregivers in nursing homes, carry a certain share of responsibility, specifically, for nurses, for example, I can say, they can postpone by 1 ton, 2 tons per night, and this is not potato jacks, it is handling people they need to care about and of course it is known, it is known by burnout, long-lasting hospitals and what I have already mentioned today, and this is the situation, as it was before the Covid-19 epidemic. The already so fucked up and burned system, then briefly kneeled down, reclining, to the point that in the end even the right government had to agree to a salary raise. And it's sad for me how he boasts about building a home of older citizens, who are not really anywhere but one, two, all he does is privatising this area, at the most profitable locations, which will also be translated into higher care, while at the same time on taxes to be financed by the social state, including building an infrastructure to care for the elderly, says they're stupid and we'll have to deal with the Income Act tomorrow, which will be adopted by the social state, as long as it's adopted. [[sign for the end of the debate]] another €800 million was taken. Then who will fund the care of the elderly? Nobody, because the state won't have the money, but it doesn't really want to do it now. He's using European funds. Instead of resorting to an integrated budget and actually providing the capacity that elderly people in this country need. People in this country pay taxes, even for being taken care of at an old age, but not for [[sign for the end of the debate]] The government is buying weapons with them for 780 and more million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-08-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 88th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I have two more notifications. Members and members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be informed that in 15 minutes 212 will begin the 67th urgent meeting of the Committee. I also inform the members and members of the Health Committee that in 15 minutes this Chamber will begin its first emergency meeting of the 67th Committee. These committees will begin at 6 p.m. for 25 minutes. Thank you very much.
