ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 74th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dušan Verbič, Marko Bandelli by 16:00, Maša Kociper by 17:00, Lidija Dijak Mirnik by 18:00. I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2nd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to both items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 74th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 24 May 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 74th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Request for a copy of the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, as well as the Proposal for a Decision on the Schedule of the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. On 19 May 2021, the instigator of the request, Aljoša Petek, submitted a written request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. With regard to this request, we will consider the proposal for a Decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law, which has been drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the chairman of the Committee, Bojan Podkrodsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u2	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Summary of the Proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. Your Honor! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 42nd emergency meeting, 24. 5. 2021, as the parent working body, considered the requirement of more than 40,000 voters and voters to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act adopted by the National Assembly on 30 March 2021. On the basis of Article 169a and Article 171a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which it forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act to be decided at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 33 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, from the date of the call for a referendum until the date of the vote, shall not exceed 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, from which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly may, by that majority, determine on the day of the vote at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. In compliance with that provision, the proposed question now proposed at the referendum is: "Are you in favour of implementing the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 30 March 2021." Monday for the referendum day, March 31, 2021 for the day of the vote and Sunday, July 4, 2021. From the date of the referendum to the day of the vote, 34 days will expire and the vote will therefore take place on the 35th day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The fact is that the candidates of the referendum have gathered a qualified quorum for the referendum. This is their right, of course, and it is right for the National Assembly to call this referendum, although I think this referendum is bad for both water and people in Slovenia who live by the waters or are in any way connected to water. Why? Because, in fact, when collecting these signatures and addressing the signatories to this initiative, it was actually a diametric contradiction to what the Water Act really means. The Water Act is very simple, the law is very short, it has two substantive articles, more money to maintain watercourses and narrow down the possibilities of intervention on coastal land. Married, that's a fact. Now, in the discussions I have had since then with the proponents to date, I have actually found that this is a fundamental ignorance of the complex field of regulation in our country. The Water Act does not regulate interventions to the area on the coastal land. Premises to the premises are governed by the Law on Preservation of Space and Construction Law. It determines where possible and what is possible to build and not in the Water Act. And to say that by amending the Water Act it is easier to interfere with coastal land, in fact excludes this, it is said, the ignorance of this complex arrangement, that there is another law that defines interference into space. The Water Act very much lays down specific conditions for this possible infringement and prescribes so-called water consent for these interventions. And the Water Act prescribes that there should also be water consent for simple objects. That's not what it was until now. So far, it has been possible to interfere with coastal land if it has permitted a space-implementation act for simple facilities without water consent. This is said to be the case for simple facilities, the conditions for access to coastal land are exacerbated because, in the event of possible interference with a spatial implementing act, if it permits, it is necessary to have further water consent. That's not what it was until now. And if the spatial implementation act has allowed and permits many things, let's say in larger towns or places in Slovenia, which are along the waters, virtually all the major cities in Slovenia are at the water side, including the construction of simple facilities, and citizens can do this without obtaining water consent, and now we demand water consent. That's what you're saying. The condition is sharpened. It's the same with the construction of other buildings. So far it has been possible to build private and public facilities with the marriage of the coastal belt, that is to say, also factories with dangerous substances, including private villas, including gas stations, including hotels, that has been possible to date, to cut the coastal belt and we have some practice with this. Laško, Prevalje, Lek and so on. It's from practice. Now we are squandering this collection from facilities of public and private use only to facilities of public use. That's what the law says now, if we read it differently, it would be nice to clear it up a little bit and interpret it a little bit. However, this law has nothing to do with the privatisation of water, the restriction of access to water, the denial of the right to healthy drinking water in Slovenia, and this is a sublime distortion that we have been given in collecting signatures and which has distorted this proposal in its reverse direction, but in fact, it is exacerbated by this proposal. I believe that the referendum campaign will help these strange interpretations in this law, but I believe that most of those who have collected signatures or read them have not. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary, mag. Vizjak, dear colleagues and colleagues! More than 40,000 voters and voters have been requested for a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Water Act. How these signatures were obtained will probably tell the current hourly debate. The Lord told me he boasted that he had signed. Did I ask him why? Because the country or this government wants to sell drinking water to foreigners. Then I explained to him and, of course, he couldn't withdraw the signature. In Novi Slovenija, we strongly reject false claims that the new Water Act would have a fatal impact on the supply of drinking water to the population. There's no word in the novel. There's no drinking water in any slope. We reject the claim that the country will sell drinking water resources, even to foreigners. The Water Act interferes with coastal land interventions and exacerbates decisions from now on will be professional and not political. A referendum, or more precisely by the referendum rejection of the Law on Water, would block the good EUR 17 million that the law devotes to the necessary maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety. By rejecting, first of all, many of our citizens and citizens would be in flood risk, so the vote to enforce the law is a vote to eliminate the flood threat of many citizens and citizens. It follows from the content of the law that the law contains only three articles. Article 37 is amended as follows: Water and coastal land shall not be allowed to be affected except for those 9 exceptions, inter alia, for measures relating to the improvement of the hydromorphological and biological properties of water, measures relating to the conservation of nature, facilities intended to protect water against pollution, facilities intended for the protection and rescue of humans, animals and property. The law makes it very clear that it is necessary to obtain an appropriate consensus, which is issued if no action is taken in contravention of the conditions and restrictions on the conduct of activities and interventions in areas at risk, the floods and associated erosion of water do not increase flood or erosion risk or threat, thus reducing the water situation, does not limit the existing specific use of water and does not conflict with the water management objectives. Dr Matjaž Mikuš, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana, on the air of national television, stressed on 19 April that, I quote, “the process of placing into the room with this amendment of legislation has not changed. So someone who wants to build in this coastal zone has to give an initiative within spatial planning (a municipal spatial plan). Here I think the government has really made a positive move that a set of facilities has limited to only those for public benefit. In this sense, the set of objects will shrink.«, the end of the quote by Dr. Matjaž Mikuka, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy. Colleagues and colleagues! Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the water law. We will also support the amendment by proposing that the referendum be held on Sunday, 11 July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u8	Your Honor! Today we are once again discussing the amendment of the Law on Change and Supplements to the Water Act, which appears to be the subject of an upcoming legislative referendum convened in the wind of the loud efforts of some of the opposition parties. However, the contents of the novel and the arguments of their opponents suggest, above all, that the political appetites of opponents of this law go beyond what they claim for pure drinking water. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, of course, we strongly support the idea of a legislative process in which the opinion of the people plays a key role, but we fail to believe that the basic prerequisite for the proper progress of such a process is an objective public awareness of all the relevant facts brought about by the amendment of the law. We fear that certain arguments have been made on the basis of which the draft Water Act has been overheard. However, media attention around this law has been misused to flat-rate comparisons with the existing law and a flat-rate interpretation of the new solutions introduced by law. The implementation of the amendment of the law, inter alia, strengthens the existing legislation, which allows the construction of simple facilities in private use in coastal areas in addition to public use facilities. Simple objects. It also removed from the law a number of exceptions to the construction in coastal areas, which in the past helped to build a number of water-hazardous production facilities and other privately owned buildings on the banks of Slovenian rivers and lakes. In addition, the amendment of the law also regulates the maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety. This is the area where we remember each year’s floods and water catches. Once the water has fallen and the consequences have been cured, we will be happy to forget about this important part of water management and water protection. It is precisely because the proposed law eliminates and limits such potentially harmful practices for the Slovenian water scheme that we are truly surprised that NGOs have taken such an energetic and decisive stand on the other side. A party that opposes the legal solutions adopted. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that some of the provisions in the proposed public law have been presented only unilaterally or even misleadingly, so that many of the signatories to the referendum initiative would not object if they were interpreted independently and independently. We regret that a chaotic noise has been created around the law, which introduces many substantively good solutions, from which the public has mainly summed up the voices and opinions of those who oppose the law. However, despite some and sometimes even incorrect treatment of the bill's proposals, we have listened to and seriously addressed the reasons and arguments of the opponents, which ultimately led to significant substantive amendments to the bill in the form of the withdrawal of some of the provisions below. We are aware that the importance of clean drinking water is undeniable and that water issues are always an extremely sensitive social issue. Even though we understand the efforts and concerns of various stakeholders when all water issues are opened, we are convinced that, at any time, a markedly negative atmosphere is linked to changes in water conditions in Slovenia, it is impossible to accept good solutions that can at the same time improve the efficiency of the use of space and raise the quality of our water, the water that surrounds us, the water that we all drink. We will today support the implementation of the legislative referendum in the Modern Centre Party Group, as we are convinced that the referendum is a fully legitimate way of democratic decision-making on important common issues, which is undoubtedly the protection of water. We will be pleased, however, if citizens and citizens are actually familiar with the amendment of the law before deciding at the referendum, and read it and then decide on or against the law at the referendum. On the basis of all these arguments, we will strongly support the adoption of the law in the Modern Centre Party at the referendum, because in our view the amendment of the law is a better guarantee of clean water for the protection of our waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! In a bad year and a half, the government of Janez Janša has repeatedly exceeded the limits of good taste and common sense, played with and played with the health and life of people, with tax money, with State reputation, with constitutional and fundamental rights of people, and could still list them. She added the most important good to her list, which is drinking water. By adopting the Water Act, it has shown that the right of citizens to drinking water is being fostered, the Slovenian Constitution is reviving and the European Directive is reviving, the drinking water issue has been adopted at the end of 2020 and EU members insist that the measures taken to implement it are based on a precautionary principle, and in no case do they result in a direct and indirect deterioration of the current quality of water, which is being intensified even under their own coalition contract, in which it has committed itself to the consistent protection of drinking resources. It is true that Slovenia is so rich in water that long-term provision of water to the population should not be difficult, but it is also known how interesting the water is from the point of view of market exploitation and what pressures are being exerted in this name. That's why you should have your guardian's water. And the most effective guardian should be the authority. The task and duty of any authority should be to protect the fundamental right, which is also a national competitive advantage, in all available ways. In a specific case, this would mean that in amending the sectoral legislation, the right to drinking water and its preservation should be exercised by everyone else. But as with the citizens, this authority has also left water on the continent. As the global population grows and, as a result, the need for basic goods increases, the awareness of how precious water is. In addition to increasing consumption, increased pollution is a major problem and more valuable water is more profitable. More and more lobbyist pressures from corporations, driven solely and solely by a desire to earn, have also indicated years ago that the supply of drinking water, which is so self - imposed, could become a threat to us all. That is why, in 2016, an initiative was prepared to amend the Constitution, where it was in the SAB that we proposed this amendment, and I was first signed under the proposal, and the initiative finally succeeded and the Constitution was amended. Of course, it's a reminder that that wasn't enough. The entry into the Constitution should be followed by the adoption of all the necessary rules, which would also effectively protect the right. The current Government should also aim to ensure that laws and regulations are adequately supplemented. By entering the constitutional right to drinking water, we have been able to serve Europe and the world as examples of how to act in this area and how to protect drinking water properly. The law for which we will call for a referendum today is accompanied by great public outrage. It started with a public debate that ended after two weeks or, if I am more precise, 12 working days. How a quality debate should take place in such a short period of time and why there is so little time when the law has purely noble and good purposes, at least this is what the Minister has always stressed. And let's move on, the law was adopted by means of a reduced procedure, which is for legal matter, with potentially such an extensive and long-term impact on water, of course, totally inadequate. With the contested provisions, which are also the reason for the referendum, the Government supplemented Article 37 and added an amendment to Article 69, which was later withdrawn under pressure from the public. However, this only removed the greatest threat to Slovenian waters. We already know the Minister's comment on everything. He repeatedly repeated what positive marriage brings, how unjustly the danger of drinking water is evident, and how it really protects the coastal belt. Yes, on the one hand, the possibility of narrowing the area of coastal land is really withdrawing, but what is on the other side is also important. A range of buildings, which are permissible in the water and coastal areas and whatever the Minister turns the matter around, unfortunately the construction of these areas means, or may mean, a risk of pollution of surface and groundwater. And yes, of course the increased volume of resources to maintain and rehabilitate problematic watercourses is welcome and necessary, but unfortunately the solution in the law is packed together with those that may be very harmful even for these same watercourses. As if it were essential for the functioning of the water system whether it was private or public property, the minister repeatedly reiterated that after the adoption of the novel it would no longer be possible to build private buildings, but only those intended for everyone. In fact, the representative of SMC, who presented the position, demented it because she said that the construction of private ancillary facilities would be allowed. With careful choice of words, he tried to influence the perception of people, which is intended for all of us, but is good, right? I'm afraid not. The facilities for public use are far from apriors for public use. Even when these facilities were listed, the minister carefully and thoughtfully chose the cases. For example, he highlighted recreational areas, playgrounds, and the like, and only who could challenge the construction of children’s playgrounds and recreational areas. But there are also words like that and there are also many objects that have a less pleasant sound, as well as those that can potentially pose a serious threat to water systems. The government, at the same time, ensures that water security will be provided by a security guard that allows the company to obtain water consent or an opinion only if the water condition does not deteriorate. Everything's fine and fine, but under the pressure of investors and with a country that's letting this investor down, the fuse will only be a dead letter on paper. And since the government burned down the entire line to protect and protect the right to drinking water, the people took matters into their hands — the people who had denied the Ministry the possibility of proper cooperation in the legislative process. More than 50,000 individuals have not been convinced and have been determined to “no” to all the risks that the law poses; and my signature is also among the 50,000. We also join this “no” in the SAB party, which we support, that such important things as water, which is our greatest wealth and source of life, are decided by people who are also the owners of it. We are all responsible for its protection, and we all have the right to clean drinking water. Therefore, as of today, I call on all of you to attend the referendum and express clearly your “against” the destruction of our water resources. The resolution on the call for a referendum in the SAB Group will, of course, be unanimously supported and we will unanimously oppose the amendment by which you wish to postpone the deadline for the referendum to 11 July. Apparently, you are already afraid that too many people will be present on 4 July, and you must correct your error with regard to the election thefts by 4 June, so that the referendum can be held on 4 July. Once again, in the parliamentary group, we will unanimously support this and call on people to participate as much as possible in the referendum and to strongly oppose the proposed or adopted law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In order to decide on the general legal acts, i.e. the Constitution, laws and regulations, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is primarily responsible for the National Assembly, in which we are elected Members on the basis of general, equal, direct and secret elections. In Slovenia, the power of the people is a fact. Most of the people's power is exercised indirectly, through beloved representatives, that's a fact. One of the direct forms of the exercise of power by the people is a legislative referendum. This has been substantially changed since 2013 by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to: qualified candidates - from then on, 40 000 voters can submit a request; the subject of a referendum decision – some of the laws in particular cannot be called a referendum, as well as the raising of the threshold of legitimacy of the referendum decision is subject to the so-called rejection quorum. The fact is that the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Water has been properly and in time and more than 40,000 signatures have been collected. The latter means that all the conditions for the direct decision-making of the electorate and the electorate on this law are met and that the National Assembly is therefore obliged to call a referendum. Formally speaking, today we will not decide on the appropriateness of the content included in the Law on Waters, but only on the content of the decision: the referendum issue regarding the enforcement of the law, the setting of the deadline for referendums and the setting of the date of the referendum, that is, on 4 July 2021, and, according to the amendment tabled, 11. Seven. 2021. In the Desus Group, we hope and expect today's debate to reflect yesterday's debate at a meeting of the parent committee, which was extremely short, as it focused only on the content of the decree and not on the content of the law. In our Group of Members, we will not oppose and support the proposed decision, as we respect the will of the citizens who have made the request. The referendum will be held, as has already been said, or on 4 or 11 July according to the legal deadlines, and how many voters will participate and whether they will surround "for" or "against" is the second question. With regard to the content of the novel Water Act, the Members of the Desus Group have already presented their position, as well as their concerns about the issue which has divided the professional and lay public. This is an opportunity to intervene in the area of coastal and water land in the event of public use facilities. During the referendum campaign, both sides have the opportunity to explain clearly to the electorate and to the electorate what changes to the Water Act actually mean. Allow me to call on the organizers of the referendum campaign on tolerance and respect for human rights and freedoms without deceiving and using hate speech on this site and on behalf of our parliamentary group. Let the people decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u14	After more than three years, Slovenia and Slovenia are returning to the referendum. With its certified signature, nearly 50,000 citizens and citizens have decided that the recently adopted Law on Waters should be directly decided by citizens. Their initiative is legitimate and meets all the criteria prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. The National Assembly is required to call for a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request. According to our assessment, the procedure took place on the run-off tracks and in no way undermines the legitimacy of the referendum application. We hear both arguments about the content of the novel Water Act as well as arguments against it and we both need to listen. However, we can regret the lack of serious public debate in the proposed solutions when the time was right. So at the time of drafting the law and in the course of the legislative procedure itself. The most controversial content of Article 37, which allows for interventions on water and coastal land, has only been added to the law by an amendment to the meeting of the home working body. If the Government had held a broad public debate on the content with all stakeholders, and at the time of preparation and prior to the examination and adoption of the proposal, it might have been different today. We could calm our passions and explain all the solutions in an argument. However, since it is not appropriate for this Government to participate in legislative procedures with its proposals and arguments, the public concerned will also have to prove their worth in a referendum campaign which will have a political foretaste, whether deliberate or reluctant. I'm sorry. Today, we may hear that we are going to the referendum for unnecessary burdens of taxpayers’ money and that it is not really a government referendum. Known winged people who are handy every time you do not want to admit that you have messed up by deliberately or unintentionally impeding a broad public debate on such important issues as protecting our waters. This is what citizens and citizens are sensitive to, no matter who they elect in elections, and it is the same. Thus, the fate of the novel Water Law is now in the hands of citizens and citizens. In order for the referendum to be in force, two well-known conditions must be met, a majority of voters must vote against the law, who will give their vote validly, and at the same time must express a negative attitude towards the adopted law at least one fifth of all voters. Since the referendum is the purest form of direct democracy, it is always important for as many citizens and citizens to attend it, so our call for people to go to the polls on 4 July and give their vote. The coalition has now tabled a proposal for an amendment that would delay the date of the referendum to 11 July. The reason should be the adoption of an electoral law, which by mistake would wipe out some of the villages in Slovenia, but we are informing the coalition of the delay of the date at the time of leave has a completely different purpose than you are now interpreting here, and by 4 July it is so long that the error with the constituencies through the urgent procedure can be resolved three times in a row, so in the Non-Aligned Member Group we oppose the delay of the date of leave, and of course we will support the decision on the invitation to a legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u16	Dear President, Minister of Respect! The candidates for the referendum did not read the law and deliberately deceive people. First, let me say that in the Slovenian National Party we support the programmes of Green Slovenia. We are committed to maintaining and protecting the environment all the time, and the latter is in the national interest. The new law is good because it cares about economic development. It is a difficult year behind us and the right decision is that the government is working on the start of the economy, but not on the basis of nature. We know the case in neighbouring Austria, where the rules are even more loose than ours and things are in order. At this point, I wonder why the referendum's proponents oppose the construction of buildings that will be in public use, or why these facilities pollute drinking water so much more? In our opinion, no, since every individual who ever decides to set up a facility knows how many different permits are necessary for the new construction and these permits will also be necessary under the application of this law. Water infrastructure is particularly interested in the needs of tourism. Slovenia is a tourist destination, as tourism generates almost 10% of GDP and all these sectors in the country must jointly support the development of tourism; on the other hand, it is also a lot of land that is swampy and so unusable, which is not desirable among farmers, but it is true that the government could slightly overwhelm this unjustified fear, which is now surrounded by the referendum's proposal to propose a higher tax burden on these land. We see a bigger problem in who collected all the signatures for the referendum. In a printed edition, journalists reported that they were students who would not have an active election right on the day of the vote. But not long ago, they strike and they want to go to school. That's really funny. I really don't know where I live anymore. Once in a while. Is there not enough volunteers among all the signatories to carry out this task? Non-governmental organisations operating in the field of the environment should not interfere with any good change for the development and progress of the Republic of Slovenia. If we listen to different NGOs to changes in nature, they should not come at all, as their demands would be stronger than the functioning of the country. We know a lot of examples from the past when NGOs, especially those working in the field of the environment, persisted for a long time in certain senseless demands and later miraculously ceased. It is a cruel abuse of nature solely for its own interests. When this law is passed, fears are completely unjustifiable and overly supported by the left option, all in order to undermine the functioning of the state. Why don't the naturalists check in on the construction of the remote, like Pinke, Petrušovci, Pragersko. It is also an example of waterborne areas, but it is a joy to pour manure that pollutes groundwater. Where are these NGOs? Fertilizer causes the accumulation of phosphates and nitrates in the soil. I'd like to give an example of the threat of a black human fish in the Blackwater area. Finally, let me tell you that the date of the referendum is 4. 7. Very controversial, since 811 citizens currently do not have an election right; we were able to learn this on the committee yesterday. I hope that by the time of Amendment 11. The 7th is going to work out. Well, yeah, maybe there'll be another citizen elsewhere after Slovenia who won't be in the electoral directory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u18	Dear Members, distinguished citizens and citizens! On 30 March this year, the Law on Waters was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the State Council rejected the proposal for a veto. With the amendment of the Water Act, which was considered necessary by our Slovenian Democratic Party Group, when we look from the point of view of the country, which has to make sure that it manages its waters and oil as best as possible, especially because we have seen how it worked in the past, even in the former country, and even now that Slovenia is responsible for itself, for its environment, space, in short, nature and residence in it. Most Members and state councillors understood the essence of the changes made by the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrej Vizjak brought before us. The main emphasis on the modernisation of the law and the basic purpose is to further protect coastal belts, water resources and biodiversity, and not the other way around, as some have argued, particularly the initiators of the referendum. The law strengthens the possibility of interference in the coastal belt, which is recorded in it. It is also important and welcome news for all citizens that the novelty of the law provides and allocates €17 million for the necessary maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety, which has happened for the first time. We all know that the mere lack of water resources has already caused millions of euros of damage to people's property and, last but not least, that many times people's lives and animals are at risk. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we respect the rule of law and every initiative for a referendum, if necessary. We cannot understand, however, that any initiative for a referendum can be as politicised as it has been in this case. According to our assessment, it is only for one purpose – it is to create unrest among people, cause division and, of course, the main goal that we can follow every day, the collapse of the government. This was further convinced by the fact that the signatories to the request for a referendum on the Water Act were misled and abused by the policy. They put their signatures against the additional protection of drinking water, that's a fact. Who wouldn't hand over a signature if someone convinced you that it was a pure drinking water issue, that it was a question of selling water resources to strangers? What a seduction! In our opinion, the opposition political parties, whose only goal is to cause anarchy and the collapse of the government, as has already been said, have gone quite over the edge here. Some NGOs and some experts have included in the action, although they should be able to read the law, claim something completely different, which is enshrined in the law and expose the red nothing left of politicians and instigators to the threat of pure drinking water, which is absolutely not true, even more, in the campaign by seducing even outside the parliamentary political party, which revives when the government is led by Janez Janša, rather than not. We know which political party it is, which also has a movement created, and this movement has now helped to collect signatures through deception on behalf of this political party. The fact is that the Act on Water Act, which aims to protect water and flood security, has been politicised and unfortunately is no longer a matter of professional concern or civil society activity. The immediate activation of opposition parties and outside Parliament's almost undetectable extremely populist party in collecting signatures suggests that more than obvious law and drinking water have been misused in political agitation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are wondering whether or not opponents of the tightening of water and water legislation and the coastal zone are opposed to the amendment of the Water Act because they want to continue to have the possibility of building private buildings on coastal land as has been the case so far and the Ministry of Environment and Space with the Minister of Mag. The visionaries in charge want to stop it now. So we're wondering if, in their client types, investors who still want to use politics to build on the banks of rivers, lakes, seas. For in the law which they oppose, it is clearly a written amendment that the construction transaction, although only public works, will be decided only privately by the profession, that is, the Water Directorate and no longer the Government regulations. They may also be disturbed by the fact that local communities or municipalities will play a strong role in this by means of their spatial planning, by their spatial acts, as decided by municipal councilors elected by all citizens and citizens, not just a handful of people who would obviously like to maintain the existing unsustainable situation, which included drinking water as well as destroying the environment and preventing access to the banks of rivers and lakes and the sea, and not just a handful of people who have literally usurped space through politics. Let me draw once again the key points for the amendment of the Water Act. The new Water Law does not in any way endanger drinking water, but it also protects and protects it. The Novel of the Water Act is by no means conducive to the privatisation of water. So far, the Water Act has allowed construction in public and private use in the coastal zone. The current Water Act has not adequately protected ours, as many exceptions have proved to be allowing construction on land. The Novel of the Water Law does not endanger drinking water, these are essential points that people rightly know about them if they have not already read the law. The referendum is harmful to Slovenian waters. Why? This preserves the current regime, which, inter alia, enables the establishment of industrial facilities on the shoreband. So far, arrangements are maintained to allow private-use facilities to be built and thus privatisation of water. The current regime, which makes it difficult for municipalities to regulate coastal land and to establish the necessary public infrastructure, is maintained. Finally, it blocks 17 million euros, which the law devotes to the necessary maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety, which will continue to leave a large proportion of citizens in flood risk. Is that what we want? Probably not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we regret that the signatories to the referendum were misled by the emphasis on pure drinking water, but they were silenced that the amendment of the law protects this and that the referendum could succeed, which, of course, we doubt, given that the initiators have used exactly all the means to obtain the necessary signatures. Among other things, through an intensive campaign among public servants using digital signatures. And of course, if that were to happen, it would result in the return of old dirty projects and the threat of clean drinking water. That has to be clear. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want the Water Act to be enforced as quickly as possible, so that clean drinking water will finally be more protected and not the other way around, as the opponents of the law are deceiving. Slovenians must not allow political parties who have not been very interested in pure drinking water to date, through some non-governmental organisations, by misleading and because of obvious personal interests, to continue to endanger Slovenian nature. Therefore, in this place, we ask citizens and citizens to read the amendment of the law for themselves and to find out that the law is not disputed in any way and then, on the basis of this knowledge, they also make the right decision and do not support the unreasonable efforts of political parties who use and abuse all resources because of political ambitions and the objective of overthrowing the government. If necessary, clean drinking water. The welfare of all of us, and for which all of us, without exception, must take up and respect it and preserve it for later generations. And that's what we're doing with the water bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u20	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Are you in favour of implementing the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 30 March 2021? This is a question that does not concern only 48 thousand 479 voters and voters who have submitted their certified signature. This is even less the question which would concern only the 90 we have been involved in the legislative process. This question is not just a referendum question for a little more than 600,000 electoral beneficiaries in our country. This question is a question for our future generations. When it comes to water, when it comes to protecting our environment, we must not allow any harmful exceptions and no loopholes in legislation. We should be aware that there is no possibility of remedial action in the event of harmful environmental interventions. Water is indeed an inheritance, and as such we should defend and protect it. You have been reminded of this by all relevant experts in the field of water protection. In one voice, it was pointed out that by your amendments, a respected coalition, you allow interventions to water protection areas which are contrary to the Water Directive by a directive on environmental impact assessment which is contrary to Article 6 of the Aarhus Convention and Article 70a and Article 73 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Even in the LMŠ Group, we have warned you about all the damage you have done in the coalition, along with the supporters, in the new Water Act, but you have unfortunately overheared our warnings. Because you have adopted such an important law, such as the Water Act, without the broad participation of the profession and civil society, because you have adopted such an important law by means of a reduced procedure in which quality, professional and appropriate treatment was not possible, because you added harmful content in the final stages of the drafting of the legislative text, because despite the warnings of the section in the legislative procedure you confirmed the environmentally challenged law, in the LMŠ Group we absolutely support the referendum on the Water Act. Slovenia is one of the few countries in the world that has the right to drinking water as enshrined in the Constitution. This is a fundamental step towards the commitment to work carefully, responsibly and respectfully with our waters, rivers, sea and drinking water. More, all, both politicians and economic and other social groups, should strive to ensure that the integrity of our waters is maintained in nature and not just on paper. In the LMŠ Group, we are saddened that the current ruling set does not follow. According to the new Water Act, endorsed by the government parliamentary minority along with the coalition opposition, construction of facilities such as garages, shopping centres and hotel complexes will be possible on all coastal and water sites. This is not about concern and water protection in our country, this is not about the exercise of the constitutional right to drinking water, this is mainly about the pursuit of the interests of capital, which will be able to exert pressure on the state institutions responsible for issuing water security agreements through the various influences. Let me stress, this is not about not trusting in the professional judgement of state institutions. Finally, the profession has repeatedly stressed that we must put the right to drinking water first and, to the greatest extent possible, protect water protection areas and thus avoid pollution from drinking water. The point is that we do not trust this Government, which has shown several times that it is arousing itself to the profession and its warnings with many prohibitions of the referendum initiative, and that you are not interested in the will of the electorate and the electorate. Slovenia is a democratic republic in which the people have power. Thus it is enshrined in Articles 1 and 3 of the basic act of our country, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The right to direct decision-making between citizens and citizens on various social policy issues, therefore, is a fundamental condition for the existence of democratic social regulation and direct decision-making in the legislative referendum, is one way of implementing such a direct democracy. Also in accordance with the Aarhus Convention, effective public participation is crucial in environmental matters. The participation of the professional and interested public is therefore the basis of respect for European environmental law, which also binds our country. This government didn't respect that either. For all of this and in order to protect our natural heritage, in the LMŠ Group we believe that we will reach the required quorum at the referendum and decide that this harmful Water Act will not be implemented. The referendum will therefore count against.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, welcome! On 19 May 2021, more than enough signatures of citizens and citizens were brought to the National Assembly for the formal launch of the procedure for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum on the amendment of the Water Act. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the signatures were collected in spite of the specific situation with regard to epidemiological restrictions, and in an extremely short time, so it would be only logical for the applicants of the adopted amendment to the Water Act to address themselves with a clear question. How can more than 50,000 signatures be collected in such a short time, and what motivated people to demonstrate their democratic will, the will to prevent the social democrats from making harmful decisions to the environment, not only harmful to water and water resources, but to the development of Slovenia as a country committed to green and environmentally oriented policies where laws are designed for the good of people and for the benefit of the environment in which we live? Rather than listen to the well-intentioned warnings of the profession and civil society, the proposed amendments to the law with some governmental arrogance without credible arguments and forcefully pushed this bill through the legislative procedure. Respected and respected, on the other hand, we have testimony from those who have fought for many years for a clean environment in their local communities and the knowledge of the profession that we must do more as a society for environmental protection. It is unacceptable to take steps back and not to forget the Social Democrats we are concerned and are constantly disappointed by the fact that the proposal for awareness and recognition that we are living in a time of environmental and climate crisis in this composition of Parliament is not sufficiently supportive, so a recent campaign to collect signatures for the referendum needs to be seen beyond the framework of formalities. This is a clear message with the support of more than 400 volunteers and volunteers from all Slovenia and a wide range of different experts, environmentalists and other civil society organisations. The message is right. Let's stop the law. Let's stop the direction that the environment is not a priority and finally look the truth in the face. We are living in a time of environmental and climate crisis. Her denial only makes things worse. This is the point where it is necessary and necessary to shrink species so that we will be successful. In the Social Democrats Group, we have also provided assistance in collecting signatures and the initiative to collect signatures for the subsequent legislative referendum, and we see today's vote on the referendum as confirmation and the overwhelming will of people. But we also see it as a responsibility to bring this will to her, by virtue of our power, through the constitutionally guaranteed right to referenda, so allow me to repeat it. More than 50,000 signatures gathered today require responsibility from us, responsibility to our people, to children, and to future generations of nature for life. The Social Democrats do not support today's amendments to the coalition, which is the day of the referendum. There's no real reason. Amendments to legislation where necessary can be made within a period of two weeks, so in June. However, there is another possibility of the National Election Commission's decision to include those you have forgotten to include in the electoral list, so the reasons for your amendment are different. In particular, the absence of electives and voters, as a referendum is being postponed during the holidays. In fact, I am very proud of the Social Democrats that we will contribute today's vote to the realization of the will of the people and unanimously support the Referendum Decision. It's about water, and it's about life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are here today because, at the initiative of civil society, more than 50,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have decided by referendum to prevent the implementation of the harmful Water Act, which will endanger our waters by deregulation. The referendum took place because of the arrogance and authoritarianism of the government of Janez Janša, who did not want to hear a warning from the entire professional public and all environmental organisations. They objected to the disputed article in the law and asked to be heard to listen to the professions. The government and the coalition also ignored the Ombudsman, who, I quote, “found a violation of Article 44 of the Constitution of Slovenia” and added, I quote, “the Ministry of Environment and Space’s views could not be defined as in accordance with Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention and Article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act. I believe that the Government, with the minister of concrete, that is, Mr Visiak and the head of the camp, did not believe civil society when it announced that water and the right to drinking water would be defended by a referendum. They thought that this would be another successful lobbyist story where undemocratic receptions would give us a law in favour of capital, in favour of a handful at the expense of the majority. I'm sorry. You were wrong. In Levica, we did everything we could in the National Assembly to ensure that no harmful law was adopted, and when civil society went to collect signatures, we supported them because this referendum was necessary. This will be a referendum against the law that will expose the coastline of our sea, lakes and rivers to the appetite of mega-Romanian capital projects, which will de facto privatize access to water in Slovenia. This will be a referendum against the law that will destroy and pollute natural habitats and endanger animal species. And this will be a referendum against the law that will allow pollution and concrete of the coastal band, which is the largest water protection area of drinking water resources in this country. The coastal zone and its ecosystem are key to the state of water resources and also to the supply of drinking water to citizens and citizens in that country. Once again, citizens and citizens, the vote against the referendum will be a vote to protect the water, to protect the environment, it will be a vote for democracy. Today in Levica we will therefore support the invitation to a referendum against harmful law and see you at the referendum on 4 July. Why? In order to make the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, adopted by this National Assembly on 30 March this year, by a total express and clear “no”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. The word has Natasha Sukić, prepare Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister and a respected coalition! I am listening to these views of you today, and it is quite amazing that you continue to deceive, manipulate and lie as you did in the adoption of this disputed law itself. And if you cheat and manipulate and intimidate people, if this marriage doesn't happen, then if it falls to the referendum, we won't be able to properly clean our watercourses. Please! Withdraw paragraph 37 of the dispute and we will all be pleased. Return the matter, open the public debate as you should open it, and you are not, and we will all be pleased. I don't know why you're deceiving me and why you're kicking this motivator so hard forward or you already know why. And look, respectable and respected, not forty thousand, not little more than fifty thousand, yesterday we learned the final number, 62 thousand reasons you have to ask yourself what happened to your law, which was passed without a serious public debate, without taking into account the opinion of environmental organisations, without taking into account the opinion of the profession, without listening to the opinion of the opposition, that is, with this forced Water Act wrong. You have 62 thousand reasons to ask yourself how many Democrats are left in you, given that you are blocking all normal procedures when it comes to such serious laws as the Water Act. And thanks to the commitment of civil society activists and activists and thanks to the extremely high awareness of citizens and citizens who have recognized the traps of this disputed law, which in fact allows the privatisation of public areas and the obstruction and restriction of access to surface water, we will, of course, go to the referendum in July. Finally, the people will have the opportunity to stop this extremely dangerous and extremely damaging article 37, which you so joyfully framed into a law that could otherwise be truly good. Unfortunately, because of this 37th article, this 37th article makes everything sooner than it does. In fact, it loosens restrictions on the construction of buildings along surface waters and thus opens doors for the construction and restriction of access to shores and coasts and coastlines, to our common public good, respected. And although the minister is still deceiving the public, 62,000 people, respected and respected, who have given our signature to this referendum, we know what is really wrong with this law. And I'll make it very clear, given that you've been here all along and you've been lying in your opinions. With the new arrangement, a key limiting element has emerged, namely that interventions are only possible on building sites within settlements. That's what fell out, respected and respected, and that's what's dangerous. And that is why we can expect that the application to increase interventions to coastal land following the amendment of the law will be much more than it has been so far and where, for example, interventions so far have been possible only in building areas within settlements. But now they'll be possible on all the land. And that's the key difference, and that's the key threat. This means that recreational areas, playgrounds and so on can be built along the watercourses, lakes and at the sea, even so, soping centers, inn, hotels, business buildings, cinema halls, museums, garages, hospitals, churches, cemetery, what you want, for the public good you will say. But that'll be built if this marriage stays. A respected minister and a respected coalition! I really want to know how you can be so rude. Do you really not think that all environmentalists in this country can read and understand your marital material? Do you really think the profession doesn't understand how harmful this planted article of yours is? And do you really think that in the opposition we don't understand the consequences of this marriage if it stays the way it is? Pure drinking water is not by itself. That's what we understand. It can only be maintained if we take care of the watercourses, the groundwaters, prevent its privatisation and, above all, severely restrict the construction and intervention of the water, the interventions that could pollute our water. It is our duty that water, which is one of our greatest natural treasures, be preserved for us and our craftsmen. And that is why, of course, we support this referendum in Levica. It has to happen in July. And I'm asking the coalition, given that you've cleared your helmet and wiped out more than 800 electorates and voters, correct this immediately. That's your problem. You've done this with your electoral refinitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My colleague Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u28	Thank you, President for your word. Perhaps, in the view of this introductory debate, as President of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, I believe that no one in this Committee, which counts 19 members and members, is to believe that anything would happen to drinking water in any area in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this certainly holds true for the air and for everything that is important for the lives of citizens and citizens, especially those who may not even have healthy drinking water. There are probably still some hamlets in the Republic of Slovenia that do not have healthy drinking water. I think it's our job, as well as those municipalities of mayors of the municipal councils, to give them this. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which covers two ministries, it is mostly if we go to do an analysis of the votes that somehow takes place 11 for the laws, 11 for, somewhere 8 against, if we are all present. That's a fact. This also shows some relationship between the coalition and the opposition, as well as many laws that may have been welcomed by the opposition and may have abstained. It is wrong and no one, as President, will ever allow the committee to come to our committee with laws that are harmful, that go against citizens and citizens, but I will not allow these laws that we adopt to be abused politically. And that's not right. As I said, our committee covers two ministries and two ministers, of course, the esteemed Minister of Mags. Andrej Vizjak is with us today, of whom this law is, as well as Minister Jernej Vrtovac, brought to the National Assembly or to this committee quality laws that we have always adopted. The debate, which was also for this law when I was preparing for this meeting, was different. But it is not right to list today even when I have listened to some Members and Members who are on this Committee and who are not, that people who accompany us, especially when they are collecting signatures, are deceiving. I don't think that's right. There is no one in Slovenia when he hears the sentence that it is healthy drinking water that he will not sign. Today, waving these 60s or 62,000 signatures, I say, if everyone did that, it would be a lot more, that's a fact. But the points you've listed, I have to admit, if anyone can prove to me where this marriage is threatened with healthy drinking water, I don't see it, and it's wrong to deceive people. But I will continue because we have spoken since the signatures, of course because we are now using this for political purposes, and I will also present how the signatures were collected. We have institutions in the country that are paid from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and when this law was probably adopted, they sat quietly on their chairs, when it is necessary to raise their signatures politically, and they have been activated. I want to say that sometimes it seems to me that when it comes to common good in the Republic of Slovenia, we are on different shores, but that is also the result of this meeting today, but I must say that our committee has been written to me because I had the view of the committee as a proponent that we have adopted the law, but now I have a position on the referendum, our committee as a whole, and also in our Group of Members, we respect the signatures that have been collected and we also respect that this law is a referendum and that it is decided by our citizens and citizens. But I'd like to say that at today's session, we don't fool people with some nicknames. Above all, it seems important to me that we are barely passing through into some normal life of citizens and citizens, but it does not seem right for us to take advantage of this now, of course, for this meeting, in some segments, to scare them into endangering healthy drinking water. Of course, I will continue to present how some institutions have been engaged in collecting signatures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u29	Michael Prevc has the word. [[advertising from the hall]] A replica? [[Yeah.]] Replica, colleague Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u30	Yeah, I have to answer that, don't I, because he's been indirectly referring to a colleague in front of me, just to all of us that we've already discussed. Look, folks, you're saying you don't understand what this marriage would do to endanger drinking water. I explained very well earlier, and I will once again, with the new arrangement, the key limiting element is that interventions are only possible in building areas within settlements. So it has been so far, but according to you, the interventions will now be possible everywhere and so we can expect an increase in the number of applications and the increase in interventions to coastal land and this is this problem, respected and so let's stop playing with such things as clean drinking water, right? Simply, this must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it is undeniable that the referendum is the most democratic form of expression of the will of citizens and citizens. Of course, it is important that voters and voters are as objectively informed as possible on the content of the referendum question as possible, both by policy and by the profession. It is true that the candidates of the referendum have gathered more than 40,000 signatures, but I cannot help feeling that there has been a lot of inaccuracies, a lot of lies and a lot of deliberate deception between citizens and citizens in this hunt for signatures, regarding the adopted Water Act. I truly hope that the signatories, under the request for a legislative referendum, truly and sincerely translate the concern for healthy and clean drinking water, even though there is no such word in the law. In New Slovenia we are still sensitive to nature protection and especially to the maintenance of clean drinking water. Why did we support this marriage in New Slovenia? Because this new Water Law does not in any way endanger drinking water, but it also protects and protects it. Industrial buildings will no longer be able to be built on coastal land and water consent by the Water Directorate will be required for any intervention in the coastal zone from now on. This is said, by the profession, not by policy, as it was before and yet, this water consensus will by no means be given in the event of negative impacts on water and the environment. There was also a lot of seduction of electorate and electorate, in the sense that this law privatises, even privatises the waters. See, the novelty of the law even imposes stricter conditions than the regulation so far, as it completely – listen – completely prohibits objects in private use. The purpose of the law, at least as we understood it in Novi Slovenija, is mainly to decommission and debirocratise Slovenian municipalities, which will henceforth be easier to regulate watercourses and coastal lands, and could also use them for the recreation of their citizens. So far, the Water Act has also allowed the construction of public and private buildings on the coastline, making it possible for private villas and even industrial plants to be built on coastal land. This amendment of the Water Act prohibits this, since, from now on, facilities for private use will be completely banned. This strengthens the conditions and further protects our water resources. Once again, the Law on Waters does not endanger drinking water. Why? The new Water Act also requires water consent, water consent granted by the Water Directorate and the second indent of Article 37 of the Water Act, that water consent may be granted only if it is not contrary to the conditions and restrictions for carrying out activities and interventions in areas at risk due to floods and associated erosions of inland waters and seas. This shall not be built there if this increases flood or erosion risks or threats. That it must not be built where the water condition could deteriorate with any intervention, that it should not be affected where it is said in those areas where the existing specific water use is limited and so on. In New Slovenia we were certainly convinced that these conditions were sufficient to ensure that these conditions were binding enough to protect cleanliness and the health of drinking water in any way. My opinion on the referendum is that this referendum can be harmful even to Slovenian waters. Why? This is because this is the way to maintain the current regime, which, inter alia, enables the establishment of industrial facilities on the shoreband. It also seems to me that this referendum is harmful to Slovenian waters, because the current arrangements allowing private-use facilities to be built and thus the privatisation of water are maintained. It also maintains this referendum to maintain the current regime that makes it difficult for municipalities to regulate coastal land and to establish the necessary public infrastructure and what concerns us most in Novi Slovenija is the blocking of 17 million euro of the money that the law provides for the necessary maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety, which will continue to undermine a large proportion of citizens in the flood. We all know that Slovenia is sensitive, as far as the flood threat is concerned, not only do I come from an area where we were hit more than a decade ago by severe floods, and many places across Slovenia have experienced similar or thank God for a slightly less catastrophic flood. But the fact is, why is the flood taking place in Slovenia? We know that we could significantly reduce Slovenia's flood risk if, of course, the country had significantly more resources to invest in the regulation of watercourses and storms. In recent decades, of course, this money has been too little. According to experts, about half of the total annual rate would be needed for some direct maintenance of watercourses. In fact, we were also pleased, on the one hand, that in this year's budget for the regulation of watercourses, the government has allocated more resources and, of course, to this problem in Slovenia, it has devoted more money to a major problem in Slovenia, but we have been particularly pleased with these laws, which, of course, also legally enabled or provided some legal basis to provide more money for the regulation of watercourses and storms. So, once again, of course, I will support this decree, but for all these reasons I consider that the referendum is harmful to Slovenian waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Reich, get ready for Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u34	A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! See, the government of Janez Janša has been in a bad year and a half since it was in government, so in power, it has repeatedly exceeded the limits of good taste and has deliberately provoked people by its actions. And this twelve-day public hearing procedure of the Law on Water is, of course, one in a series of countless such measures, and of course, it is right that civil society has responded to this and also in the opposition, in the party SAB we have responded and warned. And that our comments were justified is evidence of the fact that the Government essentially withdrew Article 69 of the Water Act, which allowed the construction of hazardous sites in water protection areas. That this was not the only disputed article, but is also the fact that we are talking about today, so we are talking about interventions in coastal lands, and also a colleague from coalition parties said that the law will support this precisely because it allows certain buildings to be built in coastal lands and Article 37 of the Water Act says that the construction of buildings that are in accordance with the rules governing the construction of buildings is classified as simple buildings and the construction of public buildings in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings. Thus, it is, in essence, clearly stated that interventions to coastal land under this law are possible and also confirmed by a colleague from a coalition party and, of course, in the SAB we oppose this. And it is very important for us that the measures being implemented are carried out with due thought, with the intention of involving the widest professional public in order not to allow for a public debate merely a 12-day window, a time window. These are all one thing that, in the entire legislative process, raises a number of questions, many doubts and doubts about the actions of this Government is great, and by the way it has done so, of course it has triggered the expected reaction. The people of the widest civil society and more than 62,000 of our fellow citizens have at this time confirmed their signatures and supported the request for a legislative referendum on whether the law, as it was written, should be enforced. And of course, these 62,000 will of course vote against it being enforced in this way and probably others. And in the SAB, we just want legislative procedures to be clear, transparent, to go in the direction of environmental protection and nature, especially drinking and clean drinking water. We want to ensure that interventions to coastal land do not allow the construction of facilities that would endanger the safety of safe drinking water and drinking water. And here, in fact, in the bill, as it was written, we don't see it. We can see that simple objects can be built, such as shovels or something. And we know that we have an inefficient inspection service that won't go out on the ground to check the surface of buildings that won't go to check what's being built inside. We have been the entire construction profession, including the inspection profession degraded in a way that has been pricked for some time by whether the object is scribbled on the basis of or is welded because the definition is in the construction law, that the object with the ground, that is, that the object is immobile when it is fixedly connected to the ground. And now there is mass abuse of this provision of the law, and instead of the object being, for example, attached to the base, it is scribbled. The effect is the same. Regarding the legislator, however, he says that this is not an immovablely connected object to the soil because it can be removed. And such legislation with these articles, which further describes these matters in its legislation, raises a number of questions, many doubts and a number of areas for machination. What, I wonder, is such an important marriage being amended in 12 days? What's this about? We also have today, I'll say, from the past, for example, in the history of water, rivers built dangerous buildings, you had a chemical industry, you had paper mills, you also had a thermal power plant, you have a nuclear power plant. These factories, these plants use water for cooling. Well, some of them have cooling towers, but they're one about security systems. But what I'm saying is, to open up legislation in mass, mass, uncontrolled, which gives me doubts. And even as we are talking about flood safety, flood safety is most assured by appropriate spatial planning and prevention of harmful environmental interventions. So, digging into the water grounds. So the vast majority of the flood - threatened buildings that we are saving today are generally threatened by flood because they were built in the flood zone. And there you will see, not a hundred years old objects, but newer objects. And it is also, of course, the responsibility of the local community to prevent this by appropriate spatial planning, not only by local communities, but also by countries, and not by law to actually further encourage them into space. And, of course, when we look at it, I'll say, the rule of law, of course, it doesn't say that it's going to put drinking water at risk, it doesn't say that it's going to privatize or restrict access to drinking water or to public common good, but it does allow the construction of buildings that make it impossible. You know, if someone builds a private swimming pool, I'll say a public private swimming pool will fence it. And that's what we're talking about. Even now, the law has allowed water infrastructure to be built on water and coastal land, even in this law certain articles have been established since before, and I know this law very well. This second indent, which everyone is talking about, for which the actions referred to in the preceding paragraph need to be obtained by water, is one very general indent, which is included so far in any water consent or water consent procedures and does not constitute a fuse, does not constitute one specific security which would have destroyed or further insured these matters in Articles 3 and 4 of this Act. As I have already said, in the SAB we support this referendum and call on citizens and citizens to participate in as many as possible. This referendum will only be valid if enough citizens are elected, and I call on everyone to go to the polls on 4 July and vote to ensure that the law does not take effect in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has Tina Hefferle, prepare for Sonibo Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I will start with a date that is, in addition to the content of this decision, which we are going to decide on today, crucial for the implementation of this referendum. It is very important when on the websites of the National Assembly we can see a table of the vote of yesterday's Committee, where the Infrastructure Committee addressed today's proposal for a decree. By 17 votes in favour and none against, the Committee endorsed the date of the referendum 4. Seven. For such a date, Mr Boris Doblekar – SDS, Franci Kepa – SDS, Leon Merjasec – SDS, Bojan Podkrodšek – SDS, Michael Prevc – NSI, Franc Rosec – SDS, Mateja Udovč – SMC and Ljubo Žnidar – SDS voted for. So, the question of what happened in 24 hours - exactly 24 hours since the vote - has changed so much that the coalition parties of SDS, NSI and SMC, have tabled an amendment to today's proposal for a decision and changed the date of the 4th referendum. Seven to eleven. Seven. In fact, the key reason for everyone's eyes is that this coalition, a minority coalition, has afforded another skilled manoeuvre, so that if it can't already ban the referendum on the Waters Act, it will adjust the date to do everything in order to make the referendum as small as possible, because we know that there is a quorum to ensure that the law falls at the referendum. This is some clever maneuver that you want to actually do everything you can to get around people's will. We know that that's when the summer leave starts, and that's your last plant you'll ever hold onto. If your intention had been to postpone this referendum date, indeed in this way, as in the amendment, “you are” it is, to say that it is necessary to submit and adopt a new bill on the establishment of the electoral units for the elections at that time, because you have found that in this law there are several settlements, more precisely, some about 880 voters have fallen out of this law when you quickly drew those new borders of the districts, if this were really the reason for your postponement, it would have been said that this date of the referendum would have been completely logical, something most understandable, that you would have changed the date of the beginning of the election for all the electoral acts, but obviously in this intention, but I do not know what to speculate, forget about this article, which provides that the date for the election starts on 21 May, but you did not rejuminate the amendment. So, in your well-intentionedness, in that you somehow want to change the date just to adapt this electoral legislation, so these electoral districts where the settlements have fallen out, I don't believe you – I don't believe you – and more, that these settlements, these 880 voters, Slovenians, are not in this law, that they are deleted voters, you know, for almost a month. In the LMŠ Group, the Minister of Public Administration was at our meeting yesterday, where he also presented the situation, and said that if we could call it soap, he knows for a while and if your concern were so sincere, we could have made a change to this law about election thefts yesterday. We know that the government can make novels by emergency procedure. This procedure for amending the approval of this law could be carried out very quickly if I speculate within a few days of 10 days of the Colleges confirming the urgent procedure immediately the following day, a committee can already be carried out, which then continues at one of the extraordinary meetings and we have within a few days a confirmed amendment of this Law on Electoral Borders so you have adopted the CAP I do not know what the problem is, why would you need a month here and this additional week more than you have now postponed the date of the referendum? In short, there is no doubt in your well-intentionedness here, it is not. The only reason you expect as many Slovenians as possible to be on leave at the time and there will be a referendum due to the failure of the quorum to fall is one time. As far as anyone's concerned, who's deceiving someone doesn't. First of all, Mr Podkoršek, Mr President of the Committee, you say I will not, as President, allow any law to come to our committee that would be harmful. See, this Water Act, all naturalists have enacted in one voice a law that is contrary to the Water Directive, is contrary to the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the law is contrary to the Aarhus Convention and, last but not least, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and if this is not a harmful law, you have also dealt with it on your committee, the government coalition minority has supported it and the matter is where it is. People have resisted, gathered these few more than 60,000 signatures and are awaiting a referendum, thank God that people in this country, in our country, have the right to speak when they consider it necessary. When we talk about our waters, we must be aware that there is also manipulation or deception on your part, Mr Podkoršek, when you say that the law nowhere mentions pure drinking water, that this drinking water is not at risk because it does not mention it. Yes see all naturalists can explain to you that I will not be smart here, but water, eco system, access to coastal water lands such or other can indirectly affect clean drinking water in Slovenia does not need to be or is not a condition that clean drinking water in Slovenia is only threatened with some direct environmental impacts. It is enough if it is indirectly affected and when it is found that any indirect impact on coastal, coastal land, construction there will affect our clean drinking water will be too late then the belts and experts will warn you about this, they warned you in that short time of the debate you allowed about this law, and unfortunately you did not want to listen. Even more so, the Minister is very misleading when he speaks, and in this law we will finally reinvigorate the possibility of building on these coastal lands, because that the construction of some private buildings will now be banned, and only the construction of public buildings will be allowed, and this is a great victory for him, it is only a deception. If you look at the Law on Construction of Buildings, you can find hotel complexes, garage houses there, and something else, not to mention that we will not repeat ourselves, no, and not to tell me that someone who will be looking at the construction phase, some natural person who will be looking at the construction phase, in the process of obtaining a construction permit, does not tell me that this person is going to gain such a consensus less than an investor, some financial mogul who will come, put money on the table and say, I will, I don't know, build a great, huge, beautiful, modern hotel complex in the Moon Bay. You won't convince me that such a water-consent capitalist won't get this overnight. And that's a fact. And it is not that we in the LMŠ question some expertise of people who decide on these water consents at national level, no. But we question the well-intentionedness and honesty of this government. However, this has proved to be a number of times that you are searching only for circuits, ways to obtain something, in one way or another. And here is the problem of this marriage, and here our pure drinking water is also at risk. Not only that, but all our water resources are at risk. That's why this ministerial maneuver, not when it comes to him being a protector and that this marriage is for the benefit of our waters, a very, very large deception. And I am saddened by the appearance of the minister from the beginning of the session, when it is very cynical, very disrespectful and vehemently speaking here before all of us, that all the signatories who signed the referendum for the Water Act did not, at all, read the law and that they had no idea at all. Then, what, according to him, all naturalists who have been alerting this law to all these inadmissibilitys all the time. So a referendum such as the electorate, no, the signatories, is certainly not only welcome, necessary, not only because of us, but also because of future generations. That we don't have in everyone, I don't know, the end of our country, where it's a beautiful water environment, no, some of the big, powerful hotel complexes that he's going to choose, he's going to abuse, I don't know, the Minister of Economy or someone else in this country who obviously has an interest in adopting such an arrangement. In short, I certainly support the referendum, I support, of course, the original date which you colleagues from coalition parties confirmed yesterday. Once again, I see no reason why we should change our minds now, if you are, of course, honest, no, which I doubt, I have already said in the beginning. And certainly at the referendum, if we want to surround our artists or even ourselves with a healthy, clean environment with quality water, we will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u38	Thank you, President, once again for your word. Maybe just a little explanation, or a little recollection of yesterday's session. Now, as far as the vote of our members and members of the committee is concerned, as well as the opposition as the coalitions, I do not think there was a single doubt, at least I did not feel it before the meeting yesterday, or during the meeting, that any of the Members and Members would reject it. And no matter who brings the signatures to the National Assembly. This has been signed by our citizens and citizens, and we all respect that. I don't think there's anyone in this National Assembly who has any concerns here. And so it was yesterday on the Committee on Environment and Space. So 17 votes were fine with that. I don't think there was any doubt, I repeat. Now, as far as the date is concerned, your fellow Member, Rudy Medved, who is also our member of the committee, has discussed respectfully yesterday and touched some of the things you mentioned, colleague Tina. This is your fellow Member and this is sitting. I must say that this was in place, and since the Director of the State Election Commission, Mr Dušan Vukko, was among us, he was also invited by your fellow Member to define himself for these concerns. I think it was in place. I have to say, as president, I respect that. Of course, when the Director-General or Director-General of the State Election Commission, Mr Vukko, spoke to us, of course, he poured clean wine on us and on us Members and Members, not just coalitions, but all 90 of them called for us to try to resolve these things that were missing as soon as possible. If we had the intention, because holidays are kept for two months in the Republic of Slovenia, I think that now one week up or down, I think it will be difficult to cover who is on vacation and who is not on vacation. We're not gonna make it. So, we have within 45 days and, of course, at the invitation of the Director of the State Election Commission, we have reached this amendment. In short, well-intentioned that things that could, he even mentioned that if someone who would not be able to go to the referendum complained to the Constitutional Court after the referendum week, even the referendum could fall. So an amendment of the coalition went out to give us another week to make it easier to capture that flaw that happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u40	Yes, dear colleague Podkoršek, I've watched your committee, I've been watching it. Of course, my colleague Bear warned me about this mistake, if I'm very nice at painting the thefts, but as I said before, I'll do it again because you didn't understand me. Following an emergency procedure, the law can be adopted within a time limit of 7, 10 days, if you want, all the PKPs have been adopted by means of an emergency procedure that has significantly more complex and comprehensive content and will not convince me that the law establishing the electoral units cannot be submitted, dealt with and adopted within a period of 10 days. It's a reasonable time. It's not about some very complicated, complex changes, it's just that that Excellova table that you obviously dropped when you filed this law, when you were drawing new borders of theft, it kind of crashed. Just this numerical addition is going to be and you won't convince me if your purpose in changing the date really is the same, then you really don't need a change of date because it's a one-week thing. However, we know that today we are 25 May, but more than one month before the referendum is held, and you are also deceiving when you say that Mr. Vukko, yes, of course yesterday he warned that this change must be accepted as soon as possible, but this warning was given before you members of the coalition voted on the date. If I had so much convincing you in my, I don't know, doubts about the date, then yesterday would have been the only logical thing to expect us to vote against the date, or that we would have already amended it yesterday, but you've recalculated it a little bit, a little bit, and today we have a new date ahead of us. And I repeat once again what I have already said in the debate, for this anomaly or error in the law establishing the constituencies, this government has known for a month. Where have you been? Now, only if you had this in the lager so that you could now play a little bit over the date option for the referendum because a referendum for the Water Act has been announced for so long. So, I'm sorry about your well-intentionedness, Mr Podkrajek, you can't convince, but I believe it's not just me, but there's someone else in here who's not following us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Get ready to land Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I am in favour of the date and implementation of the referendum, as was essentially voted yesterday on the Home Infrastructure Committee. To remind you yesterday we unanimously set the date of the referendum on 4 July 2021. It is also true that, following the warning of a fellow bear, several settlements have fallen out of the Electoral Units Act. Later in the debate, the Director of the State-Election Commission, Mr Vukko, pointed out that matters would have to be settled and, if my memory does not deceive me, he gave two options. The first option is to adopt a new law, where the hands are short but feasible. Secondly, if this does not go through, he said that the state-election commission would ensure that none of these 800 citizens and citizens will fail or that they will be allowed to participate in the referendum. Why the change from yesterday to today I have heard now before me, and these arguments of the deaf do not convince me, it is likely that the supreme head of this coalition or their brain effort to conclude that it is better that the matter of limitation and with as little participation be postponed somehow for another week at the time of leave, in this opinion I am not alone, even before me a few colleagues and colleagues have explained this. But all of you have been left without thinking, at least all those in this coalition who have thought with their heads so far have left this coalition and have confirmed it. So that I will not support the amendment that you have given us today on the table, which essentially puts forward the date of the referendum for one week, regardless of whether one or another date of the referendum will apply, I will gladly attend it and also give my voice of support to the candidates of the referendum, who, today, have heard more than 60 thousand signatures, so I would ask from all those who are discussing it today to these citizens and citizens a respectful relationship, not to listen from the minister that they do not know how to read the laws, they have not actually read it, not to mention the other insults that they have been. Such a discourse, or not such dialogue, has also led us to talk about the referendum today. But I don't think this referendum is entirely unnecessary. If we had one inclusive and constructive dialogue in this country over the past year, but not one arrogant, self-sufficient and exclusive policy, which is essentially led by the SD's largest coalition party with its coalition partners, as well as by supercollective partners, who in fact also allow this government. I'm sure it would be nice if we listened to each other in this country more than once and that we could hear each other there. If this were to be done by respected colleagues and colleagues, this referendum would not have been, and we would have done much better in this country. I am pleased that among the initiators or main organizers of this referendum, our future, the voice of reason that we have excluded, we are attacking NGOs, the media, journalists, otherwise thinking that I am not saying that the social dialogue is essentially dead, is not. Is this a policy for better tomorrow, respected colleagues and colleagues? It's not. And 60,000 signatures required for a legislative referendum are the voice and support of this people against such a way of ruling. Last but not least, if public research doesn't tell you enough, I don't think it's good. I would be most pleased to conclude by myself, and I will also conclude that if, apart from the date, whether it is 4 or 11, we could run another election, these would be early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Get Iva Dimic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! It's a nice afternoon, all of it! At one point, I am pleased that today we are discussing this matter, finally one referendum, I can say, after a year and a half of this government and I think that after the 10, 12 bans of the referendum in this temple of democracy are now finally one action before us, which therefore cannot escape the referendum. We have heard a lot of facts and arguments. I won't repeat myself. However, I would like to point out just a few facts why the adoption of this specific law has been raised or the whole process has been taken under scrutiny by such a large number or so wide a public. For the first time, purely to say politically, the Water Act, which was passed in the National Assembly, is a school example of the lobbyist law. A law in which people, their health or the environment do not benefit, no overprotection or any other benefit. On the other hand, I do not know which or concrete, construction or tourist lobby has its own seam in this hole in the size of the seam in this whole area covered by the law. That's the first time. Second, then purely substantive. This has been pointed out by a number of environmental and environmental organisations. Once again, here I remind the Minister, who is not with us at this meeting now, that not just one layman from the public has come forward and started to be a little loud, but leading organisations in the field of environmental protection and nature protection in Slovenia. Such legislation and measures destroy habitats, damage water resources, and now I do not need to explain how the water cycle works here in order to understand that any interference in each water in the final stage also affects the drinking of water supplies and so on. And the third thing, politically or technically, procedurally, is how this law is adopted in the entire parliamentary procedure by the old evergreen method of the current government, in a reduced procedure. What's interesting and what we haven't put at the forefront of today is that the changes to this law have been added to the most harmful by cross-cutting coordination, after the Ministry of Economy, which is a natural agent and lawyer of the lobbies in such government constitutionals, has come into play to shorten the public debate of some gods for 12 days, thereby preventing the participation of NGOs and the professional public and so on. These are three reasons, it is said, for this political procedural and professional question of this law, which caused the public to jump into the air and, of course, after civil society had organised itself. The Ombudsman, the civil society, the professional public, all added some of their efforts in this pre-referendum campaign, resulting, of course, in 60 plus thousands of supporters of citizens and citizens who say, hey, this law is bad and this law must go to a referendum. To engage citizens and citizens when they see one such harmful thing as this law, harmful to the political, harmful to the environment, harmful to the process, harmful to democracy, to wake people up to a single fact that was very exciting to me. Incentives for accepting or collecting signatures have sent a call to the public: people come, join, we need volunteers. And in one day, there were 400. And not 400 people who said I'd sign it, but 400 people who were ready to stand in the rain for 8, 10, 12 hours on the stand and collect signatures. Do they have any of these? Nothing. Are they part of the concrete mafia? No, no, no. Are they part of any other lobby? No, no, no. And I am also happy in Levica that we helped to collect these regulations and supported this call for a referendum and then attended the referendum itself and were clear against the adoption of this law. Then, for the last thing before I finish, of course, this amendment is also today what is harmful about it. The end of the date from July 4th to July 11th is nothing more than a call that as few people as possible are at home, that participation is as low as possible, that people are on leave and therefore the referendum cannot be attended. This error with the constituencies, honourable Members and Members of the coalition, is easy to correct. I think that if someone, then you are members of the current government constellation, the best experts in shortening the procedures for rapid adoption and there is no reason that such a move would not have been made in the mind that business would have taken place in 10, 12 days and would have taken care of those 800 I don't know 812, 811 people who, in any case, were in your very fast and adopted law and intervened in the constituencies, of course, by your fault. As far as I personally am concerned, I absolutely support the referendum as one of the forms of direct democracy, and I sincerely hope that we can offer it as a legislative body to citizens and citizens on 4 July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is "Iva Dimic." Let's get the mag ready. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! Every person, when you ask if it is to maintain access to drinking water, I think that there is no citizen and the citizen says this must indeed remain the right, although it is enshrined in the Constitution and we added it to the Constitution in 2016. Article 70a of the Constitution stipulates that each right to drinking water, that water resources are public good in the administration of the State and that they serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to the household, and in this part they are not market goods continue to be written in the Constitution, but I just want to say that it was, or that it was, that the collecting of signatures was under an obligation, that it is a petition for drinking water, access to water, although we already have it all written in the Constitution itself, and every citizen and citizen has the right to do so. However, it has not been said since 2018 that all sub-laws and laws that follow this record of the Constitution have been carried out, and here past governments have not done their domestic tasks since 2016, and this is probably also due to the fact that if someone accidentally intervened in tightening construction in the coastal zone, in order to be able to restore it, I will say some misunderstanding precisely why it went to law itself. The fact is that the Water Act interferes with coastal land and I believe that there has been a lot of pain here, because we know which are more difficult on the foundation not only of the Slovenian coast but also of the others by the coastal or lakes or by what rivers in Slovenia, but the difficulty and we know who has the desire to build in the coastal zone I will say Slovenian coasts. From now on, however, decisions will be professional and not political. We know how building permits have been granted so far on the Slovenian coast and it certainly hurts a lot. Last but not least, I've just printed some of the questions I've sent myself, which are of course speaking and asking whether the ministry will give its consent, who will give their consent, and so on for what design. Let me say that the law, which you, of course, oppose in the opposition, takes and places on the decision of the profession, including the law, including the Department of Nature Protection and takes the power out of the hands of politicians. This works and, of course, I will say, since 2016, when you said, the right to drinking water must be enshrined in the Constitution and it is right that it is in the Constitution, but nothing has happened further, because the power has its force and, on the coastal land, it will be possible to build only objects intended for all of us. It won't be possible to build villas or anything else, and of course it doesn't suit anyone, so there's a referendum coming up. It doesn't suit anyone. What saddens me is that this law or referendum will block the 17 million that the law provides for the necessary maintenance of watercourses and the provision of flood safety, which will continue to threaten a large proportion of citizens in the flood, even here, to all past governments since 2014, an indication that you are not in any law, in no budget, providing funds for flood safety. Last Monday, heavy rain caused floods again in Cerknishica, that's in my village. Simply, we have been cut off again because someone since 2014 has not provided sufficient funds for the flood security of the inhabitants and now, by blocking this, you are blocking another 17 million euros to settle this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare to be Love Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, once again welcome! I've decided to stick to what's planned today. Today we must not really discuss the content of the law going to the referendum, although you who are leading the National Assembly today are allowing this, but, according to the Rules of Procedure, we should not allow it, but, it is not my business, it is your business, but I will not, it will be quite a time to talk forward, us who think the law is harmful, with you who think it is useful and we will talk to people and so on. I would like to say that, in fact, there was no need for us to go so far as to go to a referendum, because there were enough suggestions and comments, both professionally and those naturalists who fought for years and years in their local environments and the vast majority in the end even prove that the opinions about which at first there were many contradictions also ridicule that they had content and that they needed to be taken into account. I am sorry that this was not the case here, and this is an important reason for the law, which essentially threatens the protection of natural resources, that it will go to the referendum and that we will “explanate” there. I would like, of course, that the atmosphere in the Slovenian Parliament is different, that we are aware that we are living in a time of environmental climate crisis, although it is true that awareness of the environmental climate crisis, at a time when we have these acute problems with the epidemic that threatens us, endangers our people, also endangers some wider social life, the environmental climate crisis has somewhat pushed us aside, but the crisis is still here, if we recognize it in this National Assembly or not. Denial is essentially the worst way, and if we deny it, we eventually come to the conclusion that not every next law we adopt, a law that would make us more resilient and at the same time allow us to adapt and at the same time protect the natural resources we still have, but other ways are possible. That's probably why we came so far as to call a referendum. Since I will no longer speak later, I would also like to define myself under the amendment tabled. This amendment is purely blinding. You knew in your government cabinets you'd known for weeks that you'd missed the election district law. And there's a risk that you wiped out 811 people this time. You erased them. And you knew that. And in the silence of the government cabinets, but it has also occurred to you, who are part of the coalition in this National Assembly, I have no such information, and I will not guess about it. But the government knew that, in your government. And be quiet. Quietly, in a way, 811 people have been wiped out. And when we talked about this yesterday, of course, it's perfectly clear. Any of these 811 people, if they do not receive an invitation to comment at the referendum, can, through their application to the Constitutional Court, because it has been shortened, be denied the right to participate in the referendum, challenge the referendum and probably succeed, they should repeat the referendum, which has real costs back then. However, with respect and respect, two possible solutions were announced yesterday. One solution was said by the Director of the National Election Commission, in accordance with their competences and directly with the reference to the Constitution, in order to be able to take a decision to include these people. That was made clear yesterday. But there's another way. A path that is formally a little closer. That the error identified should be corrected immediately. Fix immediately in practice means that the minister who now visits individual coalition groups and also the opposition says: “This correction, these 811 people, will be here in two days in the National Assembly, which he is able to accept very quickly in the month of June in the first two weeks.” We can have an extraordinary session next week and this correction is done. So this really can't be the substantive reason that you want to move the referendum day a week later, when there is a high probability that there will be more voters and voters who have the right to decide at the referendum on deserved holidays. Of course I understand what you're doing. With all maneuvers, such and different, you fight to get as few people as possible to the referendum. Because of the prescribed quorum, and even if 90% of the people who come to the referendum against the implementation of this particular law, you won because of the physical absence of some people. And so it would probably be best to ask for a break, call a minister or anyone else, consult, a respected coalition, find that it is possible that the law is already in the National Assembly on Friday and that we accept it through an extraordinary session. And we accept, next week. And then you don't do what you want to do now, vote against yourself. Yesterday, unanimously, 17 votes in favour and something against, by the way, that the structure of the composition of a specific committee is not proportional to the structure of the composition of Members and Members in this plenary, we just have to say this, otherwise some votes would be slightly different, it is not the only committee, but also on this committee is not the structure of a symmetric structure at this plenary session and in general the question of how much it is already through the constitutional edge. But yesterday, with 17 votes in favour and none against awareness, with all the warnings, we voted in favour of a concrete date, because we probably also realized that this date was more appropriate than any other, that people would be better able to exercise their right under the Constitution. That is why today it would be one such sign of handing, not just the opposition side, but in particular the 60,000 we have signed, which I have also signed, of course, that we have signed a request for a referendum, that the amendments simply withdraw and that what we voted 17 to zero yesterday, we vote today, at this point, shows that 80 cards are invested in apparatus, that is 80 to zero, decree and we go to the referendum on 4 July. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Žnidar, to be prepared by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At times, a little back then it was considered that the National Assembly was the temple of democracy, that the National Assembly was a temple of honesty, a temple of respect, that it was a window of some reputation, and now, in the last term, there was also a major change. In the last term, however, the National Assembly turned into a temple of lies, a temple of mud, a temple of disrespect, a temple of threats, a temple of deception. This is now the National Assembly in its final term. The president of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, helped greatly. He allowed things to be put into a bad light now. And now, if I continue, today is still a step forward. Now, I'd say it's kind of normal that he's already lying about legislative matters. That's perfectly normal now. To lie and deceive and give false rumors and information about laws. This is now an upgrade to this amendment in the last term. Now for a little constructive. Today we listen to lies that the Water Act allows me not to know what kind of intervention, in short, that it is much more open than the previous law, which is not true. Whoever says that is lying and misleading the public. I say again, he's lying. And now I'd like to ask a few questions about the body you're saying. Do you know how many industrial buildings are built in the Ljubljana Water Protection Area? I'd like to see this hero answer my question. Well, tell me how much. How many industrial facilities are built in Ljubljana's water protection area? Let one of you answer that because you're such a conscious plumber. Let me answer that. And more importantly, the Left Government has issued a construction permit for the C0 sewerage channel to bring fecal water to the water protection area. But there was no referendum here, but that was nothing, and that was all right. It goes together, no, it goes together. That is to say, you've lost your constructiveness, you don't have constructive arguments, you're just lying and deceiving. I must say, I have great respect for all the signatories you've been aware of. And all 40 official ones, 62 or 70, will be there in a few days, which won't be a problem. I respect them, but on my finger I estimate that even 3% actually doesn't know the content of the law, because by recruiting, if you're for healthy drinking water, give here one signature on the administrative unit, everyone will be for sure. It is not a citizen in the Republic of Slovenia that the law, the recruitment, would not be supported. I would if I didn't know the law. Unfortunately, I cannot give you this signature, this signature, my own, because I know this law and you lie to the citizens and you deceive them. And those strong naturalists you mention, didn't they tell you that every agricultural field is an intervention in healthy drinking water? Didn't they tell you that? Can you constructively tell me whether a greater intervention in healthy drinking water is the spraying of a single field or one of the nuns who is a boatboat along one river? Can you tell me what's a major intervention in healthy drinking water? Well, let me answer that. In short, look, I would say that I respect now one year before the elections, I always respect a democratic, some correct and fair one, I would say, a political struggle for the votes that will take place next year when the national elections will take place. However, I strongly condemn the political struggle that harms the state and citizens. I strongly condemn that. And that's in this case where it's obvious deception and lies. Look, after all, I'd say 17 million isn't a lot of money that you've just made it impossible to redecorate or arrange some other watercourses, but look in some areas with 17 million there's a lot to do. Not after the floods, when the citizens in distress are crying and groaning, yeah, because the government has done nothing and so on. Look, you're the one who stopped this matter here, so this funding won't be implemented. You're responsible for this. So, then don't go crying and moaning again. Today, I think there have been some five initiatives on well-intentionedness, how we should quickly address that Gurs error about the loss of certain settlements. But where was your good intentions after the good work of the National Assembly a week ago when you refused to meet with the National Assembly? Even the President of the National Assembly, who convenes the meeting, votes against this meeting so that it does not take place. But where is that good girl of yours now, suddenly today, you are so well-intentioned that at midnight we can confirm this arrangement of Gurs. [[…]] Now you have an extraordinary readiness. Now that you've been home for a week, that's fine. What you've caused with your rejection of the agenda. That worked for you, didn't it? That's what we'd come here to confirm at midnight. What kind of duplicity? Isn't that a little national? Aren't you? You are voting against your work to be done. Don't do your job on a regular basis. What a duplicity! Tomorrow you should also vote against being home for another week, so you won't have another week of fun, so you won't accept the agenda. This is your job and your relationship. But there are important laws on the agenda and so on. The referendum is, I would say, I support it, but in what way have you taken the initiative to persuade citizens, I would say that this is a referendum of false clues in addressing citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u52	Dear Vice President! I ask you to maintain the level of respect for each other in this National Assembly. Let each speak in his own way. Who lies, who steals, let the SDS talk to each other. Who had a vacation last week? Me neither on vacation nor vacation. But if the SDS Members have taken a week off, that's their business. In short, it is your job to ensure respect in this National Assembly. And this implementation has now been far from that. I have signed under this initiative for the referendum, I have read the law, read several times, and the fact is that this law, which I hope will never be enforced, has harmful consequences. So, once again, I ask you, Vice-President, to ensure that a normal and respectful debate is held in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I fully agree with him, as well as all Members and Members, I would like to ask that we only discuss the referendum, not the content, which has so far become a heated debate. And I'm really asking for respect because we're in the temple of democracy. Robert Pavšič has the word to prepare Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Well, after such moralization, the full squadron of Members of the SDS is a little difficult to keep calm blood and to focus on what we are talking about today, this is a referendum decree that has two essential characteristics or two essential elements. That's a date and a question. However, there is much to be said that has now been made clear, not only to me personally as a Member, but in fact to all Members. But the fact that I'm being dictated by the coalition MP, how am I going to vote? Is that normal? And now he's said his thing, and of course he's gone, all red in the face. And how we weep and how we groan. The only crying and groaning I hear today is roaring from the right side. And suddenly, the problem has become 17 million euros, which is a very big problem with how signatures were collected, which is also a huge problem. And if everyone said so, I also contributed two signatures for both initiatives. However, it is not the problem of €8 billion of additional poofs in the last year, it is not the problem of beating people who have a different opinion, it is not a problem, the problem is €17 million and now, we have heard, even C0 platoons. Yes, my colleague Gniedar was not here when we had an extraordinary session on this subject. It was also not present at the meeting of the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana. And, holy forgiveness, the government has granted a building permit, the government has granted a building permit. They probably also go up to the president of the Committee on Hair Infrastructure when he hears his Member say that the government grants building permits. I mean, let's stick to some, at least a little bit on the outside, to see how the state system works. No, it's not a problem of €17 million, it's not a problem of how to collect signatures for this referendum, although everyone who has the opportunity says that these people had no idea what they signed. Well, I mean, you're not ashamed to insult the average of everyone who signed. Totally everything except 3%. Then count those 3% of the people, and we'll thank them for reading the bill. The problem, the essential problem of this referendum, is completely lost trust. And we don't have to go that far back. The second intervention law, PKP-2, we remember what happened at the time. At that time, the Minister, who is also proposing amendments to the Water Act, proposes to the National Assembly that non-governmental organisations be deprived of their legal interest in the procedures for allowing the construction of buildings with significant environmental impacts. Of course, NGOs are against who they would not be, since the last brakes are non-institutional against harmful environmental interventions. The coalition takes it lightly. The Constitutional Court suspends the implementation of this article and after a while this law will come out, and the Waters Act with the amendment will again be able to exclude both NGOs and professionals, together with the coalition. 14 days of public hearing, after the public hearing was concluded the Ministry of the Urinary Economy in the amendment of its requirements were extremely harmful, they only eventually fell out, but some of these harmful ones went out again at the time of the second and third readings of the law and you cannot say that you do not even have our trust far away, but not the rulers, and now the story repeats itself with the amendment, so that for another week the referendum will of course be more receptive to the summer. I don't know. Let's give August 15th. I don't know when I'm talking now. Let's say August 15th. Of course, everyone sitting here is perfectly clear why you want to do this thing the way you did it, yesterday you were all quiet, because there was a proposaler here and you could say a lot more, today there is no proposaler or investor, the proposaler is the Committee on Infrastructure and so the investor who came on behalf of 60,000 people in this National Assembly today has no word. It's not that it's not fair, it's embarrassing, what's happening today, because if this GURS mistake was going on right now, it's GURS' fault for once, but GURS is in the intervention of the minister who brought this law to our table, so whether they're gonna be totally grave now or they're total scarves or they did it on purpose. Any decision of these two who are either incompetent or corrupt is not good, but only these two possible answers exist. I'm just waiting for us to start again left, right, middle, I don't know what else. People are already throwing up with this constant division. Today we're talking about the environment. The environment is not white, nor black or red desire is to be green as long as possible, but with such a terminology you will not be able to build or rebuild your confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Rudi Medved, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At the outset, the Minister of the Environment marked this referendum as a bad event for citizens and, of course, I cannot agree with it that the referendum is, in fact, the most democratic tool for citizens and citizens to say about the conduct of power, that it is a bad event for citizens. I'm just from that generation, and I said that the referendum along with the elections is a holiday of democracy, whatever it sounds like a phrase I believe in. This is said by the Minister from a party that generated 30 referendums in 30 years of independent Slovenia, on average one per year, but when we subtract that period when this party was in power, of course this average raises even so many observable topics that if it were crocheted, it would say that if they did not like the weather forecast, we had a referendum. And now this same party tells us about a bad event for the citizens, even more so, that it is anarchy, that it is a harmful referendum, they say. All of this is now attributed to those who simply disagree with the content of this law because we simply disagree, and it showed at this time of signature gathering and in the debate itself, in the National Assembly, on this law, that, in fact, they believe in the well-intention of this Law on Water, only in the Government, if indeed all and in this constricted coalition. In public, there was no endorsement. Of course, the public, both professional and civil society, were hardly even questioned during the process, but then this negative position was seen during the gathering of signatures. But we can figure out here today, from the bottom line, that if you don't agree with SDS, you're hurting the country. This is the common denominator of all these discussions. They're countering us with false clues, and I'm not going to return with this, but, you know, one of the biggest lies that was said today, in this debate, on several sides of the ruling coalition, is that during the signing process, it was heard that, by this law, the country was selling drinking water to foreigners as well. It just didn't sound like it. It was simply never heard because no one, in his right mind, had ever claimed it. I've never heard that. Today's the first time here in this hall. What is, in fact, even more misleading than anything else, is the reference to blocking 17 million dollars for flood safety to block this referendum. That's not true. That's not true. The Minister himself blocked these funds because, if he had been well-intentioned, he would not have pushed this 37th article into this law, because he had already, of course, very well known that he would have caused a real storm, in the professional and civil society public, between environmentalists and not least among citizens. So many, many tens of thousands of signatures, they're not just experts and environmentalists. Many people in this country disagree with this practice. And, of course, if it were intended, for a real purpose, to release these funds, which certainly needs to be welcomed, absolutely welcomed, it would simply change this in the law if it really was necessary, if it really was necessary and, without any effort, this amendment of the law would have been adopted and these 17 million euros would have been operational long ago. And he didn't do it, but he actually used these funds as a hostage in this marriage. And, so now we hear this crying, the pouring of crocodile tears, turn to the minister, because, in fact, the minister is the main culprit, that these 17 million euros are not yet operational. Now, what is actually now a problem in this referendum is this imperfect novelty of the electoral law. Indeed, yesterday after we did this, I warned the Infrastructure Committee that something was going wrong here. Very well-intentioned for a simple reason, because it was all quiet because no one was talking about it, but he knew. It's been known. If not before, but I know that before that, the Minister of Public Administration already knew about this when he sent a proposal to the LMŠ Group to meet on this subject on 18 May. Otherwise, he didn't say which topic, he didn't say, but he said he was proposing a meeting on May 24th, so six days in between. Why, if the matter was so urgent, would it take six days for this meeting to take place? So every 18 already knew, but I know he knew before. And yesterday at this meeting, in fact, he had an opinion drawn up after he told us what it was about, that in the amendment of the law on the constituencies, which you so keenly changed and changed so that now the referendum could be the problem itself, of course, we made it clear to the Minister that yesterday or the previous day, he was already taking this step and that the Government, for God's sake, should come to the National Assembly with the amendment of the law, because this clearly could be a problem. And he agreed to that. He somehow felt that this must be done immediately. Now I don't know if he was in the SDS group yesterday. Apparently, he had his opinion until he visited the SDS Group of Members, and then this opinion obviously changed, because we did not discuss any options at this meeting at last night to change this date and tighten that period to the midsummer. No, not in a word, but we all agreed that the matter must be resolved immediately. And now our coalition colleagues are explaining that it is necessary to take some time for this amendment to the law. I don't know what time it is. You know what you just have to change into this novel law, you have to enter seven words, you have to enter into the marriage, that's the seven settlements that are now deleted and simply not there, because of the supposed Excel table. We've been having a problem with Excel tables in this country for quite some time. We can remember them from a variety of public invitations. I think that this Excell should be thoroughly updated in Slovenia or abolished. Otherwise, there is another way that not the same stunt as it is in this case, but this is just like we were changing the constituencies, just like we were changing them, otherwise they never came to this National Assembly, but in the end they were hand-painted hooks in all the settlements, so we walked on our way home, because in such important matters as electoral legislation, I think you don't rely on some Excell table. And what must be included in the marriage? Words of Boitin, Bezov, Battles, Babni Garden, Abbitants, Arya you, Andreans. This has to be introduced into the marriage. But of course you will take a week to think about it, and I know that the novel of the law is already ready, it is written, and it could have been written yesterday or, of course, much earlier in this National Assembly, because it is written and you know, it is not difficult. Believe me, it's not difficult. It is not difficult because these seven words that I mentioned earlier were introduced into this law. And yesterday, even at this meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, of course, there was absolutely no speech that the adoption of the amendment of the law could be so difficult that that date should be postponed. No, of course not, but you see, this is a demeaning act of a ruling party. On the one hand, it is also art in politics. Your own mistake, your own stunt, then you turn to yourself, because of these discussions, of course, today it was obvious, you're very afraid of the outcome of the referendum, otherwise you wouldn't keep talking about how harmful it is and who knows what else. So, somehow you're suggesting that this marriage will fall at this referendum. And then this creamy, which we believe is of a technical nature and, of course, it's very quick to fix, but no. You see, at this point, this, this Excel mistake or Gurs is now being politicized. But Gurs is also a grateful object for the culprit. How many times has Gurs been guilty of a lot of things? This time. And turn it all against the electorate. Because as clear as this change has now taken place, the proposed changes to the date, it is so clear that it can no longer be and that, of course, this complication or frivolity or whatever we call it, you eventually misused the date of the referendum to be moved further into the summer. For us, of course, this is totally unacceptable and it is right that people, citizens and citizens know how much, for the first time, you respect people's views expressed at the referendums, in fact nothing. Because during the discussions last year, when we have repeatedly warned that a lot of things would be mature for the referendum, you have usually moved away with your hand so that it is not up to citizens to decide, because you already know what is good for them. This time, citizens think it's good for them to do something else than you say. And it's not anarchy like someone on your side said. I don't know when the referendum requirement is now supported by more than 10,000 signatures can even anarchy. I don't know, in those 30 cases of your referendums, it was, of course, a 30-year anarchy, because we had a referendum every year. In short, with the fig in his pocket, the Minister of Public Administration, who went after his opinion to the SDS Group, sent this request for a meeting, which was obviously a well-designed plan to do so in the right way, so that it might still have a further impact on the mood of the people, after the gathering of signatures at that time, and, I would say, this post of public debate on the amendment of the Water Act is quite clear that the law is doomed to failure, since the Minister has failed to convince us here in the National Assembly, neither the professional public nor environmentalists, and, of course, of course, will not be able to convince citizens and citizens. I don't know if then these people, who think so much differently from the minister, really all the false clues, as you say, are all on the average of those who are against this law, or are still on a mission with your own head, because you also greatly underestimate these more than 60,000 people who have signed them, and you also very much underestimate that they are all under the influence of a couple of people from the National Choir and that they don't know how to think with their own head. Now they've shown that they have a way of thinking. Once again, you would be invited by a minority coalition, or by those who supported changes in the borders of the constituencies, to take this written law, a group of Members could submit it, and of course the fastest possible thing would be if you had come to Parliament with it long ago and resolved in such a manner of dignity this complication, because, in fact, such errors could indeed happen, although in such important matters as electoral legislation here too should not be any threshold of tolerance and this should not happen, but it is. And it is very easy to save and believe that, at least for the List of Marjan Šarc, we will not be working out of this great political problem, and as a result, now that you have gone so humbly with this amendment to the end of the date, this seems a political problem to us. From here on out to the moment that & table did what it did, it was more of a technical problem, of course. [[Incomprehensible]] I can say for myself, I think that for the list of Marjan Šarc, we will also not support this amendment in any way, but we support the referendum, and we have made it very clear from the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u57	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President of the National Council for a given word. Let me refresh some memories of yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. My colleague Rudy Medved was on this committee, he also discussed, I had said before, I even welcomed his concerns, the call to Director Vukko, the Director of the State-Voluntary Commission. I assure you that what happened at the GURS is certainly not the fault of the members and members of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, today's proponent. A mistake has occurred, I think there is no one in the National Assembly who does not realize that this needs to be corrected by the referendum week, which will be either 5th or 4th or 11th, which is proposed by the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups. However, it is important to mention today another segment that I think the Director of the State Election Commission mentioned under number 1. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia we have been in the most difficult situation for more than one year, this is the situation facing the whole world, including Slovenia, with the COVID epidemic. And let me remind you that Mr Vukko also mentioned this segment, that we need to be aware of it, we need to hold a referendum for electoral commissions of about 18,000 citizens and citizens. We must be aware that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia with regard to COVID is still not simple. He warned us, us members and members of the committee, but above all, that we will be in a very difficult situation here. Believe me, people aren't going to get in a fight about who's going to be on this election committee. And this segment is also one of those that led the coalition parliamentary group to take a week more time. I think we are aware that the director was not if it was political, but he was as an expert and these two segments clearly warned us. We are aware of this and believe it, and my fellow Bear, all of you who are arguing that there is no mascotism here. If they wanted me, they'd have tabled an amendment yesterday, but nobody thought about it yesterday. After, of course, these two key points of the Director of the State Election Commission led us to take a week more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Yes, the replica, Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Yeah, now, maybe I was misunderstood. Yesterday, I did not draw attention to this problem in order to propose this date not even from the mouth of the Director of the State Election Commission, what has not been said. On the contrary, after that meeting, after the board meeting, when we spoke outside the hallway, of course, he appealed, do so as soon as possible. So this problem with the electoral committees has always been, it's always been, even when there was no co-vid situation. So I think a little, uh, respected chairman of the board is attracted to hair. But it's handy, but it's convenient, because for a cobbler, but for a cobbler, of course, you can always say it. And I didn't say it, but I certainly don't, I don't know, I hope that you didn't understand it, that that's why you made a mistake in the law in any way as a member of the infrastructure committee, and that's true, and I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Baković, to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u62	President, thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues. What is interesting today is this debate, and in fact, we have all come to know or accepted the fact that the referendum will be, and the support of this referendum has given almost 50,000 people. I am surprised by the debate of some, in particular the coalition Members, who say that in some ways some or most of them have been misled. And I don't really understand here how some people in the National Assembly can so underestimate people as being illiterate as if they can't read the law and then create their own opinions by blindly listening to some left-wing people or some non-governmental organizations and then blindly believing them. The fact is, in a way, you have felt that this time human will is somehow against the enforcement of this law and that is why some manoeuvre is needed. And, I'll say, somehow, in a way, you found this identified error in electoral legislation and, of course, followed also this famous amendment, which translates for a week, the postponement of the date of the referendum from 4 to 11. Now, my modest opinion is that this is really a manoeuvre that tries to move the referendum somewhat deeper into the tourist season and not that it wants to buy time to regulate the electoral legislation from which seven settlements have fallen. You all know that it is enough time to make a mistake in this electoral legislation and I think that one week is gone, the extension is nothing more than nothing, but this can mean a lot about electoral participation in the referendum. And I would suggest that you dear colleagues ask the Minister of Public Administration when GURS informed the MJU of this error. As far as I know, it's supposed to be 14 days ago, and in these 14 days, I'm curious about what was done. Or did they file a marriage? No, nothing was done. 14 days practically, dear colleagues, did the government lose not to do anything about it and now we're going to extend it for one week because what, because in 14 days nothing was done? Let me ask you, maybe it would be interesting to know when they will be informed in the MJU. Nevertheless, I will say by 4 July almost 40 days, and in this time we can move the mountains if we want, but no, we need another week more, because 40 days is too short. If you don't change the legislation at that time, you won't, actually, in that extra week. I appreciate that, my dear fellows, there's a rabbit in this bush. In some ways, both the 50,000 people who supported the referendum and all the others who disagreed with this law are trying, and this is actually unacceptable. [[Incomprehensible]] The fact is that the referendum will and the fact is that it needs to be convened as soon as possible, and the fact is that this week is not, due to the change in electoral legislation, it will not help in particular, because we have already lost 14 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word to prepare Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! Today, consideration of the request for a referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which we adopted at third reading at the end of March. The instigators have collected the required number of signatures, so the referendum will certainly be held. Whether this will be on 4 or 11 July in my humble opinion will not play any important role not later than after the resignation of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek in 2014 we had parliamentary elections even later and this is on 13 July 2014. Now, if you are all so sure of this outcome of the referendum on the very number of signatures which finally confirm this, I do not think there is any fear that participation would not be sufficient on 11 July as well. I am particularly disturbed by the statements or discussions of some colleagues and colleagues who somehow suggested that it was already that some of the settlements had not been included in that proposal of the Law on Amendments and Provisions of Election Units and Electoral Steals, that there had been mistakes, that this was somehow planned and I think that is not the case. Finally, a colleague of Tina Heferle accused some rapid changes in the election thefts here to say that Nova Slovenija was not among the signatories who introduced this law, but we finally supported it and those settlements that fell out were not among those districts that changed the borders or areas of these electoral districts. The same referendum, in my view, will not be about the water law itself, but it will be mainly about allegations, about water pollution, about the threat of clean drinking water, although the changes in the law in this regard do not change. Today, and during the referendum campaign, we will listen to nice words about the preservation of water, air and our environment on the one hand and on the other hand how this government and coalition is ugly, how it advocates the dirty industry and thus threatens clean drinking water. I believe and know that there is no one among us who does not seek to keep our environment clean or to protect our water resources and clean air. In all this advocacy or operation for our environment, we must have a middle way between the efficient use of space and the quality of being our citizens and citizens on the one hand and on the other hand to protect the environment by ourselves and water. All of this has to be kind of life. Many times before the dilemma, I do not know when some advocate renewable energy sources and, on the other hand, they are against the very construction of wind power plants. I don't know, it's hard for us in Slovenia to imagine that in the Gulf of Piran, we would be building five windmills to produce clean energy. The current Water Act has been in force for some 19 years, and at the same time there are some reasons that dictate the need for amendments to this law and the law itself eliminates some inconsistencies, including some overly bureaucratic procedures, while exacerbating possible interventions on coastal land, contrary to some interpretations that this is exactly the opposite and today we have been able to hear the minister confirm this once again. And in the parliamentary hearing itself, we have adopted an amendment that we have deleted in the opinion of many environmentalists, the most controversial article that has allowed the construction of production facilities that use hazardous substances, including in the water protection area. Here again, I stress that this article of the law itself has been deleted and is now no longer in this adopted law. In today's debate, however, it bothers me that some of them have been the main advocates of the construction of TEŠ6, which uses the most dirty way to produce electricity, creating the most CO2 discharges, which will allow us to close it prematurely. Finally, I believe that the referendum on the proposal of the Water Act is unnecessary, but since we do have it, it will certainly be possible to confront our different views in the referendum campaign, and in the end the citizens will decide whether the law is appropriate to be valid or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u65	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kepa, to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all your colleagues, my friends! The request for a legislative referendum shall be legitimate and shall allow for the collection of signatures to any party or group of parties which opposes the law or the amendment of the law. At the initiative of Slovenian municipalities, the Ministry of Space and Environment, led by Mr Viszak, prepared a novel on the Water Act. The main purpose is to provide and increase funds for the maintenance of watercourses from the Water Facility. This is €17 million for these purposes. These additional means would allow additional watercourses to be regulated. The municipalities would come up with cleaner and orderly watercourses and beaches. This would greatly reduce the possibility of flooding. That precipitation is occasionally very high, we see just now that almost all of May is raining, when the quantities are enormous, and even in April. Instigators of the referendum knowingly or not deprived the congregation of these works and interventions. The new law limits all interventions on coastal or coastal land. Since 2002, when the previous law was in force, written by the former LDS, they have been built on land next to water, many factories, residential private houses, and 80% have been private interventions. The Minister pointed out that it also intervened in the “coastal” belt with objects using dangerous substances, including factories built just along watercourses. The proposed amendment no longer makes it possible for provisions allowing this to be deleted from the law. Only public use facilities can be built on coastal belts, with water consent, appropriate spatial acts and fulfilment of the conditions. This is mainly meant by simple, light objects, wooden objects, which should be contrary to tourism activities. The National Assembly adopted this amendment on 30 March, and a week later the State Council rejected the suspension veto on the amendment of the law. The drinking water deception of those who collected the signatures of this law was enormous. To sell wells, watercourses to foreigners to pollute drinking water will even improve quality due to prohibited construction. This law will not reduce quality, but vice versa, this novel has been written by experts who understand the matter. It is likely that the initiators of the referendum have an interest in not making a change and remaining the situation as it is now, and that it is still being built near the coastal parcels or is being narrowed down by the watercourse itself. I support this referendum on 11 July, and in the meantime seven settlements and 811 people who have fallen out of the ballots must be set up to allow for a fair vote for all. I will not support this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič to prepare for Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u68	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I must say that with the topic we are dealing with, we have come to an area which is, in fact, very important for Slovenians and Slovenia. We know that as a land of exceptional water, we also have a lot of drinking water, even though all of us, especially the inhabitants and residents of Slovenian Istria, do not have our source of drinking water to meet our needs, especially in the summer months when these waters are less. We have a lot of rivers, we have a lot of streams, and the water always attracts. I can also say this as Istria, which detects great pressures also on the building in areas where the sea is overlooking. So this pressure on the wall is just a fact that we just have to borrow. It is also a fact that these interventions need to be regulated. Slovenia has regulation in this area, which is complex, complex, and incomprehensible to many. There are a lot of words here, not just the state, but especially the local community. The State may regulate some space with individual acts, with State spatial plans, these are an exception rather than a rule. Otherwise, the word here is mainly in local communities, i.e. in municipalities, on municipal councils and on mayors. They are the ones who define, to the greatest extent, how space will be used, and especially in the vicinity of diverse watercourses, after all, the seas. If I expose the sea a little bit more because we did not expose it today, but if the law does touch it in any way, I must point out that at least those who have this experience at the local level in one of the four coastal municipalities, we come to the conclusion that, on the basis of the legislation currently in force, the congregation does not really know what it can put at sea and what it cannot or is not clearly regulated, because the jurisdiction is not clearly regulated, because the sea still falls under the country. I therefore absolutely welcome all the efforts being made at the Ministry of Environment and Space towards the adoption of the maritime spatial plan for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. This is actually an act that will also regulate what does not have to be done, what should not be done, will define areas where individual uses of the sea are defined, whether it is a port or a waterway, or whether it is a shell farm or areas of bathing water or something third. This seems extremely important to me from the point of view of planning the use of this type of space, sea or water, and ultimately this also affects the identification of the coastal zone on land. Because, as has already been said, when you want to put into the space of a pier, there are a number of problems and uncertainties in the communication between the local level and the level of ministries, that is, the country, because there are no specific issues defined. And I believe that all these efforts that are going towards defining more clearly and more clearly what to build and how this can only be good and useful. In particular, because in this law we clearly move away the possibility or competence of decision-making from the level of government, i.e. policy, one level lower, i.e. to the level of profession as such. Because, after the current legislation, if a government decides to build something in an area or be allowed to build in the immediate vicinity of a water body, then it will be possible. If we adopt this law, then it will be necessary, above all, to assess professional institutions that know more about water, about the impact of individual construction on water, on water safety, and ultimately on the issue of clean drinking water, probably much more than the government ministers themselves, who always make a political move. If we are to take a step forward in this direction, then it is certainly good for us to adopt this law. Sam, I have to admit, I didn't go to any of the stands that appeared when the signatures were collected. However, I was paying attention to the activities that were taking place, especially on social networks. And I must say that, given what I was able to see, I was quite disappointed with the level of discussion or the quality of manipulation that was taking place. And again as a Primorec, as someone who comes from Istria, I will show you one photograph of how he tried to gain support and in the final stage also to deceive or manipulate people in order to make it easier for them to sign the referendum. In this photograph you see two options, so in the upper part it's a walled moon cove, that's in Strunjan, and below is a moon cove like nature carved through the centuries with the erosion of this highest cliff in, I think in the Adriatic. Well, in the upper part, we see this invasive building, which goes up the cliff, as well as partly into the sea. It's one of those manipulations that circled around, say, that's what I found, I think on Instagram it showed up. Here it is necessary to say that such things are very distasteful, especially because they are placed in the Strunjan Krajina Park, which we know is protected. In fact, not even burning is allowed, but not building or building with any hotel complexes, but people who do not know this complicated legislation in our field obviously believe such things too, otherwise it would certainly not spread in such a resourceful way and certainly not find many comments below such publications, disgusting people. So here we need to know that, despite the fact that we have virtually all possible information on our hands, we can find the law with two clicks on Google, it's obviously too difficult for a lot of people, and then only on the basis of some of these graphs is there a public opinion. This also inspires me with some conviction that the intention to carry out this referendum is not even so focused on the content of the law itself and on the issues it addresses, but rather on the idea of speculating in this direction, to dictate to the ministry, and at the end of the stage also to persuade the government as such, and to act as such and to be guided by the Water Act of Abuse for some kind of referendum on the Government. You can also convince me with some counter argument, but then when we see things like this, it's probably the purpose, the manipulation as clear, it's hard to contradict. I have to say that I have also been a volunteer many years ago, one of those who went to the Railways to help out after those severe floods, and then I have seen from near what looks like a force of water when something happens, so much less I understand that blocking this law also blocks the possibility of using water funds, it is 17 million that many local communities would still want to be able to repair a number of critical areas, because we know that our climate is also changing, that those centuries-old or five-year floods have actually become 50 or 20 years-old, and it takes a number of measures and interventions into space, especially money and investment. Every late day, month, season, when construction is possible, then it costs a lot of costs, bad will, sometimes even death victims, and I believe that some responsible policy doesn't want it all. In a short time, we will also have on the agenda a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government, which is also written in there as one of the arguments that the President of the Government is endangering pure drinking water, so that I think that water as an important asset is being misused for this political struggle and that what is true and what is not true, what is truly written in the law and what is not true, what is merely manipulative graphics, is no longer considered in the final stage, because in this political struggle is in fact allowed all things. But I believe that citizens and citizens, whether they go to the referendum or not, will also give a clear message, because I am convinced that, at the time before us, there will also be enough public space open to all these aspects, which we have today and yesterday on the Infrastructure Committee also make very clear and decisive arguments and on the basis of facts, but not manipulation and lies, that citizens and citizens will also decide whether this referendum is really necessary or not or improves the area that regulates water as such or not. I think that this is an absolute step forward, I believe that it is not the last and that it is not the only possible, but we must not only as decision makers in the National Assembly, but, after all, as citizens and citizens, always weigh on such issues in particular, because we can be absolutely green, but if we are absolutely green, it means that construction and interventions will no longer be space. It can also be a purely legitimate political and other, even ideological, if we want, decision, or many consequences. And I would suggest, in this sense, that we follow the countries that have already done this and that the solution in this respect is development, which is particularly sustainable, which weighs environmental impacts, and ultimately, economic progress issues and also the servicing of all those needs that we have as citizens and citizens, both in the field of social, health and much more. So there's only one solution here and just going into one, one option, so let's just say green, and blocking anything is probably not something we can afford if we don't want it to go to the expense of a lot of other social subsystems. And as with all things, we will have to weigh here, and there will be no difference in this law. My assessment is that we are taking a step forward, in the right direction, that they are still and that further improvements will be possible and necessary in the future, but I must also once again commend the Ministry of Environment and Space, which still has the feeling that it is necessary to take individual steps forward that have unfortunately not been made in the past, and then, because of this also today, even here and in many debates, we are paying this price of interventions into spaces that have not been regulated, because in this very grey field, there is a lot of magic to be done in the past, so it seems positive to me that you, too, these options of political decisions, will withdraw to the level of expertise and then, above all, give them this responsibility, to put this responsibility to say what is appropriate and what is not appropriate. So that the referendum will certainly, in my opinion, be a week before or a week later, will not affect this, the participation in the referendum and its outcome, I would like to be influenced primarily by arguments, not manipulation, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Rosec, preparing for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, the referendum on the amendment of the water law, we have to ask ourselves, what did we adopt this amendment to the law, what was the cause? In fact, I am assessing that this novel did not go to the Ministry because they would be bored, but because they have accumulated, given the existing law, I think, the previous law, the need for change. [[Incomprehensible]] We know that we are, living at a faster pace, that our changes are, I would say, the everyday trend that we are experiencing and the changes that have indicated that we needed to introduce a new law on water are, above all, that it is necessary to move from a decision to a policy. Rather, we can speak very widely to politicians about certain things, but we cannot discuss them in detail because we do not have these skills and we are not taught about them. And I think the novelty of the marriage has gone in the right direction. As we put some of them through, I would say, policy decisions are faster. Rather than explain to one politician what is wrong or what needs to be changed, it is a long - term process. Experts who have studied this in our colleges and other institutions have this knowledge. Then the next detail that came along. We have a lot of problems with all of these, I'd say, changes or, in recent times, looking at these precipitations are a little bit more intense. I come from the valley, which we have, I would say, in the last ten years experienced quite a flood, I would say, in this town of Šostjanj, there are also in the back of two lakes, and the torrential tributaries, I mean streams to the river Paka. About two years ago, money was found that this, I'd say, concessionary level started cleaning up the Pako River. And they were all amazed because they found that the Paka River was regulated to be scraped with stone. Because it had not been seen before, because it was, it was, I would say, these sediments and floods, and this is actually the trough of the Paka itself, the river Paka was smaller. Now, with this amendment of the law, this is exactly what we are allowing this money from the Water Fund to actually be used for these purposes, to take these watercourses or these streams of rivers to be cleaned up, and now, if this novelty of the law suggested it, I think that those people who live by the rivers, when some longer-term rain comes and live in fear, I think it was not their interest to contribute to the referendum unless someone has informed them and said we are collecting signatures because of the threatened drinking water peak. Now, if you want a referendum and you want to get as many signatures as you can, then someone says something they like that everybody understands and that's drinking water and that's it. That's what I think people fooling around with some thing but not completely explaining these things to them, I don't think it's right. Now, many times it has also been mentioned that everything is wrong with this new law. Now that you've read this new bill, you can make sure that it's not a matter of saying some interference in the room that this law does not support in the waters, but all of these things would say intervention are prescribed by spatial acts. I don't see now I'd say there's a reason if even a simple escape requires a watery consensus I think it's the right decision. If this strengthens the conditions for construction, I think we are contributing to a better environment. Earlier, we know that the facilities could have been private and public use is said to have been a private villa somewhere along the coast or somewhere near a lake or a gas station, hotels and these things will now only be for the public good because we want all our citizens and citizens to know that I would say this again a step in the right direction. More than once, it has also been said that this amendment will result in restrictions on access to water or the privatisation of water, or I do not know how much it would have been to say, however, that some of these concerns were unjustifiable. I think that in this pre-referendum period it is necessary for our citizens and citizens to tell exactly what was the reason for changing these laws and what the benefits of this law or this novel are, not just some drinking water, that when people go to the referendum or those who decide to know exactly what they are voting for, they will then vote for a referendum one way or another, but we have been misled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u71	The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you very much. It is now more than obvious that, after this much heated debate, the Minister and the Government, as well as the coalition party or coalition MPs, have always been fully assured that only organised citizens and citizens will not be able to collect more than 40 or more than 60 thousand signatures for the referendum, are referred to as the call for a referendum. This has also been more than clearly presented or detected from these discussions. The other thing that I think has disturbed the Minister, the Government and once again the coalition MPs is that in fact these signatures and this is really a lot of signatures have come or was I going to say committed, signed in rural areas or people living in rural areas, because constantly, when we talk about a healthy farm of minds in rural areas, there is still a healthy farm of minds working very well and that people in rural areas have also been very well aware of and in fact aware that this law is also a matter of destroying their decentralised rural environment. Of course, everywhere there were signatures also in the big cities there was very good response at all because it was true, but especially I would like to establish this village, which I will say many times on the right hand side also with some right to own as your elective body, and there you choose or also get the most [[?]] You get your electoral body or you get the most votes. And it also obviously stabbed you, or even the minister, to wake up this village, which you so often like to usurp and own for yourself, to think and especially with the common sense of agriculture. And, see, we also had this committee yesterday, as Mr Podkoršek had explained everything to you, I would not repeat to you again, and in fact there were also two representatives of the two movements, namely, the movement for drinking water, Mrs Alenka Kreč Bricelj and Mr Stergel [[?]] , also from this initiative today and what was interesting, as you also said at the time you received it, that you could say something on the subject of the referendum and the dates, was that in all circumstances it is actually an acceptable date, but it is not a good one and this is a problem. You want to give them an even worse date or, I will say, a less quality or a good date for the referendum invitation, and I have also warned you, or you have been very well and reasoned, that you need to listen to them and, look, I think that if we can rely on anyone, it is our citizens and citizens and of course civil initiatives, who know exactly and mostly, I will say, in 99%, they always know exactly that something is wrong or that something is wrong and that in this case citizens and citizens have felt it and are aware that this law is, in fact, directly and indirectly, it will affect the quality of drinking water and, in particular, pure drinking water. And when I talk about drinking water, and also about this Water Act, and also about this referendum, which is being declared or will be signed, I would like to say one thing. [[Incomprehensible]] I come from the environment, as well as a number of MEPs from this environment will know what I'm talking about, about the Lower Podravje, where we have constant drinking water problems, let alone pure drinking water to have it. It's not that many times either. And when we talk about water and this Water Act, we need to understand that people are thinking about the future, thinking about the future, thinking about the next generation, about their children, about their families, and when you come up with such laws in this National Assembly, you will certainly have more civil initiatives and initiatives that they want or want and rightly so, to call such a referendum or a different referendum, and when we talk about water, we are talking about the universal good that is basically ours, I will say, the primary good that we have to take care of and, unfortunately, when we talk about water in the future it will be even more obvious, to fight for. And, of course, I also now call on all citizens and citizens to go to this referendum and vote against this law, because this law is wrong, it has been written with a certain purpose, which Mr Minister for the Environment and Space, Mr Vizjak, also on one of the March Committees, has made known to us that it was in fact the desire of the Minister for the Economy or the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So once again, I urge people to participate in the referendum, because when we talk about the future, and when we talk about our future, there is essentially water, I think it's the main good that we're going to have to fight for, and also, to protect and protect it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Reberšek, to prepare Jerca Korče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Yeah, I'm sure that collecting signatures for the referendum is based on deception and misinformation. I'm sure the signatures, many signatures, are based on a lie. And you're so successful at this, that my own mother calls me, and they call me my friends, and they ask me, "Come on, Alex, tell me what's real here now and what's not true." That's why I'm telling you that you're really very good and great masters of deception, masters of word conversion. You're doing very well. This government wants to sell water resources to foreigners. That's what I heard from my colleagues. That's how you guys got together and got signatures. This law, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Water Act, does not mention drinking water in any word. It is one of the greatest deceptions and a political measurement of the power of the opposition without any argument. All those who claim that what the opposition says is true, you will be able to see for yourself. For I will take this law on changes and additions to the Water Act and publish it on my Facebook page, go, read for yourself and see all three articles and see for yourself what is true and what is not true and how this law can actually endanger pure drinking water. The new Water Law does not in any way endanger clean drinking water, but it also protects and protects it. Industrial buildings will not be able to be built on coastal land from now on. So far, of course, this law has allowed this to happen. For each intervention in the coastal zone it will be necessary to obtain water consent from the Water Directorate, it is said, a stock that will not be issued in any case negative impacts, of course, on water or on the environment. So far, this consensus has, of course, been issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space, and from now on this agreement will be issued by the Water Directorate, which says, from the Ministry of the Environment and the Water Directorate, it is said, from the policy to the profession. What exactly is the problem here? The current Water Act, as I have said, allows construction on the coastal belt, both for public and private buildings, the new law conditionally allows only public-use facilities, provided that prior water consent is obtained by the Water Directorate. The latter shall be issued only if the intervention does not worsen the water condition or otherwise affect the environment. It is said that with the amendment of the Water Act, we are sharpening the existing legislation. Similarly, the water law so far has not adequately protected our waters, and this is also demonstrated by many exceptions, which allowed construction on coastal land. Why, then, did you not jump into the air and make such noises as you do today or now? And that's what the numbers are about. 54 such regulations, 54 such exceptions, are said to have allowed us to build production facilities in the coastal zone, even those that deal with the production of tyres dealing with chemicals. Not to mention that these regulations have also been adopted for luxurious residential houses, villas on the banks of Slovenian rivers, lakes and seas. And that's what it's been doing so far, and I believe it would be done in the future. The Novel of the Water Act does not endanger drinking water. The new Water Act also provides, in the second indent of Article 37 of the Waters Act, that this water consent may be issued if it does not conflict with the conditions and restrictions for carrying out activities and interventions in areas threatened by floods and associated erosions of inland waters and seas, without increasing flood or erosion risks and interventions in areas threatened by floods and related erosions of inland waters and seas, thus not increasing flood or erosion risk or threat, making it possible to carry out public services, not restricting the existing specific use of water and does not conflict with the objectives of water management. You will be able to read all of this, I will now publish it on my Facebook page and you will be able to see for yourself what this Government or this Ministry of the Environment is doing. I also believe that the referendum is harmful to Slovenian waters because of the maintenance of the existing arrangements, and this is that industrial facilities can continue to be built on the coastal zone, that the arrangements so far allowing the construction of private-use facilities, and thus the privatisation of water, are being maintained, and that the arrangements so far make it difficult for municipalities to regulate coastal land and to set up the necessary public infrastructure, such as boating, I am inventing, and this referendum is blocking 17 million euro of the necessary resources for the rehabilitation and maintenance of watercourses and storms to ensure the flood safety of our citizens. So, because of this referendum, a large part of our citizens will be in floods. And just for the end. Where you were representatives of the current opposition, when consent was given and when a 4.5km long sewerage was built, built by the Municipality of Ljubljana over the water protection area in Cléch, on the one hand clean drinking water, which you know to sell in some way very nicely and which we have written in the Constitution in some way, and on the other hand a sewer where feces flow and smells spread and all that on the same piece of cabbage. Why didn't you jump in the air at the time and make the noise you're doing today? What if there were an earthquake and a sewer leak and immediately 300,000 Ljubljanans and those who live here and work and without clean drinking water were threatened? I wonder where your concern for pure drinking water was then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Boštjan Koražija, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I repeat to Mr Rebersk, because he mentioned the opposition about these Kleks, or even if I understood correctly. [[Incomprehensible]] In fact, we were the deaf ones at the time, as he said at home, who were jumping into the luft or opposed to building this thing or going through that sewerage through the water protection area. By not generalizing the entire opposition. At the time, we were very and very strongly opposed in Levika, and you know that in the parties over to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The proposaler Bojan Podkoršek asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President for your word. That it will not always sound that I am speaking when spoken by the opposition, and perhaps even a few sentences when a member of the coalition spoke, let me touch the Slovenian municipalities. I visit many congregations both in my constituency and wider, and we have always listened in the past to the Minister of Mags. Andrej Visiak in particular, when it comes to budgetary resources, that he urgently uses to regulate watercourses across municipalities. When we visited the municipalities in the previous term or in the previous government we always explained to the mayors that on these items. [[Incomprehensible]] Now that the money is guaranteed at 17 million, I think that it is something that is a bit, of course also some protocol, if I call it in construction, to implement it and, of course, now the mayors – one writes to me today because it probably hasn't deepened much about what we're talking about – that it's very difficult for us to understand what we want to say. One year we explain or in the previous government we have explained that money is not for the regulation of these watercourses now tracked money into a 17 million-dollar budget and now we block it with a referendum. Let me remind you of a few municipalities, including citizens and citizens who tremble at these watercourses, to remind them of the Railways a few years ago, and we are even aware of what can happen in one hour at a time at one watercourse to take the whole village or even more. In short, it seems to me that you may be in a segment where we are talking about this point today, we are closing our eyes and, of course, we will have to take some responsibility. We are a few days away in June, and we know what can happen at the end of the year in the summer when the storm is before the calls for these funds to be distributed by the municipalities, that construction workers will start working and that the years will end so that, honourable Members and Members, when we talk about drinking water that is not the subject, we must be aware of what consequences we may have by doing when we hold back the necessary means to repair watercourses and, above all, I have here in mind citizens and citizens living in these watercourses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. It's Jerca Korče, and she'll be given the word Leon Merjasec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everyone. First of all, however, the response to the fact that there is no drinking water mentioned in this law or the already adopted law is that today we have heard many times that the applicants or the opposition and all those who have also collected the signatures are misleading and that there is no mention of drinking water, but that if we are able to understand the professional grounds as well as read anything else, we can see that the state of Eco systems in the coastal belts is inherently linked to the state of our waters and that this condition has an indirect effect on drinking water and that coastal areas act as a kind of filter. Now what has happened in the past should never have been some kind of blockade or some argument that we are doing things in the same way today, at all, if we assume that we have more knowledge, more behavior, more understanding that some harmful things that a person can do in the future can cause problems by making these arguments more than anything that has happened in the past are very bad to say that politics is using it. Now, however, we are talking today about the resolution on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, and I will indeed say how dreadfully we adopted this amendment today by the coalition on the table, that the date of the referendum from yesterday 4 July will move to July 11th, in the light of this in the light of the explanation of this amendment that you tabled in the coalition today, namely that this date of this delay will happen, so I will say your mistakes, your negligence, your unemployment, your unemployment, whatever you call it. The fact is that on 16 February the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Election Units for the Election of Members to the National Assembly. February 16th. From 16 February until today, it has been quite a good time, although I do not personally understand this scam, which has happened to investors of the law, but you cannot avoid the responsibility of the Member and Members here that the annex, which has been part of the law, has fallen out of those 7 settlements, estimated how few electoral beneficiaries have been deleted, but if this has already happened to you, because you have gone along the way of having Members trained enough to make such a law, you should correct this error as soon as it has been detected. And yes, I don't know when the government or the ministry recognized this mistake, certainly 18. 5. When the opposition's parties also received a request to meet with us by the Minister of Public Administration, you all knew this together and that day the law should be tabled. There is no serious need for you to go around now and move the date that has been set, but the law is simply tabled, you have already proved that if you want, you can also accept at night meetings things that are somehow otherwise important to you, and I wonder where we are if the correction of your own mistakes and the deletion of 811 electorate beneficiaries is not such a very important thing that it is urgent to move through the National Assembly and, of course, this explanation of the amendment is nothing but sand in your eyes, that you are talking about that you need time and that the referendum will move. Then simply say that you want the date of the referendum to be extended as long as possible in summer time, so that the referendum can be attended by as few people as possible, because people will already be on leave or anywhere, or that you will gain one week for your own election campaign to defend your marriage. So I don't see any argument at all, I haven't even heard it from your side, why this scarab thing you made by Members when you introduced the law and you've done it with the introduction of the law, can now the government or the politics translates it into GURS or even to any professional employee or probably to Microsoft or so-called Excel tables, which are always a good excuse when there's a slap, but the policy or the one who's putting the law, but you're still responsible for the matter of drinking water or being prepared as it should be, and if you've done such a mistake, then you should in silence as soon as you've detected it, correct it and not today with the amendment people are trying to translate the matter, and somehow you're trying to make it up for it, and you're trying to make it sound like you're trying to change it, or you're trying to make it, or you're not going to make it, or you're not going to make it into something like, or you're not going to make it're not going to make it're going to make it into something like, or you're going to make it're not going to make it're not going to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has Leon Merjasec, followed by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The Minister correctly presented the draft water law. He explained a lot in the presentation itself. In this law is also the regulation of facilities in public use, which I welcome, since these facilities will be built on condition that the intervention does not deteriorate the water condition. I come from an environment that has plenty of water. The name Medvoda already says that I live in a congregation among the waters. Two rivers of Sava and Sora run through the congregation. We also have Lake Zbiljska, where the municipality and citizens of Medvod have been trying for years to set up a walking path around Lake Zbilj. We have an idea about the cycling footpath along the river Sora, the cabin for the crossing of the river Sora, from the direction of Škofje Loka towards Ljubljana. The tourist society is also trying to place the dock by the boat. In the municipality of Medvode we also have Polhograjska hill with many tributaries in the mentioned river. At the time of the present law, the congregation had no authority to manage, clean, regulate them. This resulted in flooding and damage to citizens and the roads themselves. This new law will enable the municipalities to regulate this, as the local environment knows the problems and the solutions themselves. In addition, I spoke with the President of the Lake Tourist Board, who confirmed their support for the bill because tourism brings added value to the place itself. This also helps the tourism that is most affected in these difficult times. It also saddens me that among the first to sign for the referendum there is also our citizen, the European Member of Parliament, the president of the SD Party. By doing so, I think it proves that he does not know this problem in the Medvoda Congregation itself. This also shows that the issues with the signatures for the referendum have been politicised. In recent days, the referendum has signed thousands of public servants with electronic signatures, which is also an emergency call, for my understanding. Finally, I welcome this law because it is intended to solve problems and further protect water resources. There are also more resources to maintain the rehabilitation of many watercourses in order to prevent flooding. The referendum issue is blocking 17 million euros to maintain the watercourses themselves and to ensure flood security, which threatens as much as 10% of our country's population. As far as the signatures for the referendum are concerned, I believe that the signatories were also misled by the SD and Left political parties and under the pretext of protecting drinking water. I wonder who in this world doesn't want drinking water. As far as the amendment of the coalition is concerned, I support it to move the date, so that all voters can express their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word and the next will be Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. So, first of all, a few words about the mistake that happened in Gurs, and that's what they said. Today, we are hearing that we have been depraved, sloppy and do not know what else, even though today we know that a data transfer error has occurred and GURS has also said this and has informed the ministry that the matter has been rectified and this will now be rectified. Our purpose is to fix it and fix it and here are the insinuations you're inducing us to do this deliberately is not so further, they're greatly exaggerated and they're not in your favor, but you have to ask yourself whether things really happened by accident or whether it's sabotage. We know that there are a lot of employees in the ministries and in the public administration from, this moment, the parties in the SD opposition, and from someone else and a lot of people not working for the good of this country, but against this government. The new Water Law does not endanger drinking water, but it also protects and protects it. In fact, until now it has been possible to build houses, villas and everything else, and I am surprised that environmental organisations and so on, the signatories have not gone on to all these things that we have witnessed in recent years, so the construction of the Lek factory in Prevalje and similar and a whole bunch of private villas, which, of course, then fence their private plot and access to water is no longer possible. Where were these collectors and environmental organizations when all this happened? Where were they when the C0 channel was built over the plumbing? Obviously, they are not concerned, but they are now concerned about this law when we improve matters, so that personal objects cannot be built. So do these environmental organizations want things to stay the way they are and continue to be able to build facilities for personal use? In the present case, the definition of Article 4 allows the possibility of narrowing the coastal belt on the proposal of the space regulators, irrespective of the type of facility. So it is possible to build a private house, a private villa, a private port, anything, if that is agreed by the owner of the premises, the competent congregation and the government. And after the new one, it's deleted, and that's no longer possible. Look, right now, after the existing law, there are 30 applications for offshore interventions, and what do you think they want to build for you? Legalize, it is said, we already have something black built there, or build residential and economic buildings. Only two of these projects are sports parks. Well, so 2 of these 30 applications are designed for some public use for everyone, everything else is private and will go very far into this area. This is true today, and that is now possible, and it is decided upon. However, the Ministry has decided to limit the issue and the conditions for construction in such areas to tighten up. For simple facilities it will also be necessary to have water consent in a narrower way, so it will no longer be possible to build private buildings and public facilities to narrow the coastal zone. By all logic and by my understanding, this is a reduction in the possibility of building in such areas. However, those who have collected signatures or helped collect signatures have deceived you into privatizing water, restricting access to water, and so on, violating the right to healthy drinking water, even though we know that nothing will happen. All that is possible today is that you get a concession, for example, to use water for, for example, a brewery, we know that, swimming pools, health resorts or something like that. Nothing else is possible, and tell us where you're getting us into drinking water and Mrs. Tanja Fajon is afraid she won't be able to make any more drinking water out of the pipe. I mean, like we don't understand one basic thing, well. So the novel limits or narrows the possibility of intervention to coastal lands and other things, bringing more money to maintain watercourses, and that is why we have supported and supported this law. If we have to, of course, at the referendum and in the campaign, say it a few more times, we will also say it, but it is not right that people have been misled. In these days we have also been able to read examples from Austria, where it is said that private water parcels are owned by private people and that, according to the rules, access to water in Austria is very difficult. Even with us this is happening, people have bought parcels over there near Sava, nicely fenced, written private land, and access to water is no longer possible. That's why we want to set these things straight, and the Water Act novels are doing it. I will also, of course, support the amendment's proposal, because I said that there was a mistake in Gurs, that we need to fix these things and we will fix them. And once again, don't hang up on us because there was a job error, so Gurs and Gurs said it publicly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word and will be given the word Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I'll be very short, because I only have four minutes. The referendum will, of course, be because enough signatures have been collected. In what way these signatures are collected, I can agree with those of you who have already said today that the selected signatures have often been based on deception, not to say lies. When I also commented as a single publication by the opposition Member and asked why it was essentially misleading people, because it was not true that production facilities could be built in water protection areas because we had already withdrawn this with the amendment and it was not accepted, rather than we would have answered and explained to people why he had actually erased my comment. So, I can confirm that it was about collecting signatures by misleading. It has already been said today, so the law in Article 14 states that the Government may, in order for the Government to determine a different external boundary for coastal land, therefore it is no longer permitted for the Government to resuscitate the 15-metre coastal band established by the waters of the first order, which means that the Government of this coastal zone will no longer have to revive and therefore will no longer be able to decide for different purposes to build, so the decisions will no longer be political but professional. And on these land, coastal, it will only be possible to build some simple facilities and facilities for public use, and in fact these facilities must be made possible in accordance with the spatial act and, of course, all the conditions laid down in this law and also in all other construction regulations are met. And as the Minister has pointed out today, I fully agree that the referendum is bad for both water and people. Why? Since the law brings more money to maintain watercourses, we have had problems in recent years with all the municipalities and all the people because it was underinvested in the maintenance of watercourses and because the law already reinforces the conditions for tightening the construction conditions in the coastal zone. And I can say again, although they have already warned of coalition types, the law has nothing to do with the privatisation of water and I agree that the vote to enforce this law is also a vote to improve flood safety. Now, whether it's referendum 4. 7. or 11. 7. In fact, it is both during vacations and there will be no big impact here, but it is true that this one week will be able to do much to help us find enough people to work on the electorate and also enough time to correct the Electoral Law, as has already been said today, so this mistake which Gurs also acknowledged when some settlements fell out has actually been established at the time when they started preparing lists and materials for this referendum, so that it will have to be corrected and as far as we know, we have already introduced this law today. So the sole cause of this is this one-week delay. The request for a referendum, as I said, of course I will support, because we have to follow the people's signatures, and I will also support the amendment. In the course of the campaign, I hope that we will be able to tell people what the real changes to this law are, and then people will be, this law, as I will support it, in order to enforce this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is given by Andrej Chernigoj, followed by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As a Christian Democrat, I support the will of citizens and citizens, and I will also respect this will, so I will vote in favour of the referendum. The new Water Act does not endanger drinking water, the new Water Act requires water consent for each intervention on coastal land, which is no longer granted by politics, but by the Water Directorate. I was appalled when a colleague said that this body was directing for water to be abused, maybe it was a self-appeal. A number of Members voted in 2016 to register the right to drinking water in the Constitution in 70.a. when the cameras were shut down, these efforts were also put out. From then on, few or nothing pines have been made for drinking water to this day. Therefore, citizens and citizens will be trusted by those who still support T6 or those who have voted in the past to put European funds instead of investing in a sewer for better water and groundwater into soft content. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Comrade Tašner Vatovec is not here, so he gets the word Edward Pavlič, and after him he gets the word Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I must say that I am listening carefully to this debate today, and it is clear to me that we are divided into two genders, and I also understand that we are convincing the convinced. In the beginning, I would have touched the way this law was adopted. The law was held at the public hearing for a total of 12 days, after this public hearing, the disputed articles were subsequently added, and I am talking about the possibility of building buildings that use hazardous substances in water protection areas and during discussions by coalition Members, I have heard praise that this disputed article has been withdrawn. Of course, they withdrew it, they removed it from the pressure of the professional public, to the pressure of the opposition, and at the same time we tabled an amendment on the withdrawal of this article, both in the opposition and in the coalition, so that I would be very careful, at least by myself. As for the mere postponement of the legislative referendum, we have today heard quite a few excuses as to why this move is necessary. And at least I'm not personally reading you this mistake that happened, I believe it wasn't malicious, but it's certainly fair that you correct this mistake. And I somehow understand that this mistake has been known for quite some time, has not been known since yesterday, has not been known since today, at least 14 days would be expected to take some responsibility as soon as this mistake is known, the law, the novelty of the law will be passed and this mistake will be removed. I have heard quite a bit of speculation about the fact that this error was not known, yesterday we had an Infrastructure Committee where Mr Vukko of the State-Election Commission said very clearly and loudly that this error exists and, moreover, we had a meeting with the Minister of Public Administration, I believe that in all the parliamentary groups, including the SDS Group, it is very difficult for me to believe that the mistake was made yesterday. As far as the 18,000 members of the electoral commissions we need are concerned, of course we need them, but my question is what this week will help me get them more easily, and these members are somehow the process itself and the registration of these members is already on the run, I believe that we will not begin to gather members for these electoral commissions in a week. What do I mean? Members are known, but they need to be activated. It has been mentioned that this law or referendum is blocking 17 million euro of water supply. Now my opinion is that if the government, the ruling coalition, were to change the amendment of the Water Act only in this article, and I believe that no one would object to this novel in the coalition, but some constant practice of this ruling coalition is that one or more good members and some instigators will be included in the National Assembly and then you will invoke or deny us the rejection of this law and some of these good solutions will not be accepted, but at least it does not seem fair to me personally, because we could expect a broader debate on such important issues as the Water Act. On the part of the ruling coalition, I have heard references to the profession several times in the course of these discussions, and I will quote only the two sentences you have stated. This novel was written by experts who understand and mentioned were experts who are educated in colleges and have this knowledge. Now I will read to you one opinion or position of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy. It is a university that educates experts in construction, construction, spatial planning, leadership, environmental engineering. The law indicates that the proposed amendments to the Water Act are professionally unfounded, in particular because the proposed substantial changes to the law, which were not possible for a wider public debate, were consequently not possible to be identified by the interested professional public, due to the expected effects of climate change, should follow the precautionary principle and consequently the existing coastal land should be preserved and even expanded. According to our expert assessment, the proposed changes to the law will affect the deterioration of flood safety, the quality of water resources and the level of eco-system services. We believe that the proposal for a law undermines the professional foundations that we teach and communicate to the families of incoming water experts. This is just one piece of this opinion from the Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy. In view of everything I have said, I think it is most fair that this is decided by the people, after all, we are talking about a good that is the property of all of us, and it seems fair to me that this referendum is being carried out in the first possible time, so this is 4 July. In view of everything already said, the right people will slowly go on vacations, which they also, of course, deserve for a longer term pandemic in such a way that I absolutely support the basic proposal for a referendum that is 4. Seven. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word gets Daniel Krivec after him and the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! What we have before us is a decree allowing us to call for a referendum, and here we do not have any great regret, but it is a law for which many lies have been told in the campaign about what this law actually regulates. Let me first say that I will also support the amendment that we tabled with regard to the delay for one week, given that it has no effect on the procedure itself. However, as regards the error in drafting the electoral law or the constituencies, it is a GURS error, as GURS has also admitted, and I hope that everything in this revised list will in fact be okay. However, as far as this law is concerned, it must be admitted that it is in a significantly better way to protect coastal land, whether you want to admit it or not. Those you may have been in in the past, in what kind of service you've been working on putting into space or working on a local level, you'll clearly admit it, those you're always in some bubble and you're only listening to some theory but you won't agree to it or you won't admit it. The fact is that the present law also allowed conditionality, namely, construction, but most of the works were intended for those who had either influence or money, the same applies to all the legislation we had in the past. This law clearly and explicitly states that this authorisation is provided that it is issued by the Water Agency and is applicable to all, I would say, stakeholders in these proceedings. Thus far, it has proved to be possible for those who had influence and money to build on water and coastal land. Maybe the ones who won't be able to do it now are the key supporters and candidates for the referendum. Now, those who have ever dealt with the protection of coastal and coastal land, you know in practice that even local communities have had major difficulties when certain measures were needed on coastal land, including in terms of flood protection or other measures that would protect people's property, and this law certainly makes it possible under the conditions of the profession, and this is the Water Agency, also a normal operation in this direction. So far, it's been much, much harder. And yet another matter is being corrected by this law, giving essentially competence to the Regional Water Agency and thus accountability, not hiding behind decisions signed at the end by the Minister, which is significantly easier to influence in procedures. And all so-called experts later hide behind these decisions when a matter needs to be resolved. This was well seen in certain projects in the past, and not least in Magna, where all NGOs spoke about the illegal construction on the land under which the aquifer is located, and in the final phase all this cream protector finally withdrew and the ministry gave a nice permit. In this case, and in the case of the law that we are now presenting, it is indeed a matter of transferring responsibility to a lower level, which is difficult to hide behind some officials and procedures, but is directly responsible for a permit and must also stand for it. This makes it easier to implement some projects, which, of course, must be in line, I would say, professional. Even when it is pointed out from your side that there was no professional debate in this case, I don't know, when you have a ministry, there are experts at the Ministry themselves and they are doing their job well when we have a government, but they are at the Ministry themselves, I would say, officials and analysts who have nothing to do with leadership. It's just that it doesn't drink water. And even some major public debate in such cases will not bring any great added value. Once again, it is obvious in this case that some lobbyists still want to build on water and coastal land know that in this case, when procedures are substantially more transparent, this will be very difficult to carry out. So, of course, I will vote in the referendum against this law withdrawing and gladly, I would say, I support the law protecting coastal land and, on the other hand, allowing for some normal development and, I would say, interventions to this area, when you need them and do not deal with red tape at a higher level, read at the Ministry of Environment and Space or anywhere, but commits responsibility to people who are in the area responsible for water land interventions, as experts and their responsibility with the issue of consent, is, of course, intolerable, and this law does not allow this procedure to be applied again, as it has been so far, that the local level of preparation of the opinion, which, in turn, and final decision will be signed by the Minister, who knows nothing in fact and is, in fact, through lobbyal processes, can often be played. Of course, the clerk at the lower level is not responsible because he is simply preparing an opinion. I hope that those of you who lobby to bring this law down are aware of it and you may consider it further. Once again, the referendum is a fact. I just hope that we will support the amendment to move the date to solve this complication with the Electoral District Act. However, the fact is that this law is much more focused on protecting watercourses and coastal land than the current law, and this will be allowed to reopen the hunt, especially for those who have influence and those who have, I would say, financial opportunities to bring individual projects through the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is given to the Victory of the Jelinčič noble and followed by Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Well, in this request for a legislative referendum, something is quite clear, a few things. The first thing is, everything that the current government is preparing needs to be broken, which is stupid, pointless and harmful to the country. The second thing is for sure that behind this referendum are those who, by this new law, are unable to build in the coastal zone and want to break this new law so that they can continue to do what they like, with money, with bribes, with political and other connections. The new law does not allow this, and it is certain that some who have money and relationships have severe pain to make it impossible for them to do so. Also, if this referendum is voted to cost a country between €4 million and €5 million, which is not small, it would make much more sense to spend that money for something other than to dictate to the government, not to throw pollen under the feet. I don't think most of those who have even read the law for this referendum. Of those signatures they've brought, I'm betting that maybe 10% of the law has been introduced briefly. Of these 10% were understood by perhaps 30%. And of these, 30% have convinced them that they should be in favour of the referendum. I think it's a serious mistake, and basically the damage is done to the whole country. It's about wanting to work things out so that we don't allow just after a long time and across a variety of buildings like this. I just don't know what those who want to do this referendum are thinking. Are they not aware that there are many flood areas around Slovenia and along rivers, which, if not regulated by watercourses, will continue to be flood zones. It is also stipulated in the law that these matters are being rectified in a way that is right. But maybe there's someone else to tell, see how he swims and who knows who's to blame again. Not global warming, as we see it this month, is long gone, but some other policy from the opposite policy option. I think that this referendum is a disgrace to those who have proposed it or who have proposed it or who regret it for the whole of Slovenia, that if it succeeds, it will have to suffer if it succeeds, continue its mistakes and continue its construction, and that some with a great smile, with a wide smile on their lips can build where it would be illegal by law if this referendum could succeed. But I think it makes sense for this referendum to move to the 11th, for one simple reason, about 800, some more than 800 people, because of Gurs' mistake, I don't know how it's going to vote, because I don't know where they're going to put them. Therefore, it makes sense that this law on constituencies changes rapidly, is corrected and only then can it actually work on the referendum invitation, because otherwise the question is whether this referendum will be constitutionally allowed, because given such a lack of people on electoral lists I do not think this will go through.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is given by Matei Udovč and will be discussed by Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u96	Respectable citizens and citizens! Regardless of when the referendum will be, I ask you to read your changes to the law before making a decision, create your own opinion and decide on your conscience based on your interpretation. Don't trust blindly, make sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is given by Violeta Tomić and followed by Boris Doblekar as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We heard a slogan like there was a commercial on TV, and I got a little confused. Thank you, colleague. On the part of the coalition Members, we listen to this internal callimeterism, which keeps talking and we poor gods, we save the environment, we save Slovenia and Slovenia, you're just guessing. I mean, and then, of course, you're pointing your finger at us like you're trying to build me. And who has the most parcels on the coast where lobbyists go most? Please don't tell me to environmentalists and civil society. So, J. Now who has the influence and the money will build just like before, and the SDS will solve it with this law. That's great. I mean, it's such a ruse and here we're targeting some kind of discredit, we who just expect at least some normal dialogue, and we don't get it. And not only did you come up with this proposal for a referendum? [[…]] Only because of the arrogance of Janša's authority and authoritarianism, because she never wants to talk to anyone. Never. And you can talk so much about dialogue, but this exclusion leads to no professional public hearing, not when it comes to an epidemic, not when it comes to trade unions, not when it comes to legislation, not when it comes to the Water Act. And they did not hear environmental NGOs that opposed and asked for dialogue with the disputed provisions of the law, they asked for a discussion. And now you're scheming about how you're saving how much water you're saving and how many non-governmental people are doing, but ugly people are just guessing. Everyone's just teasing you. And you're talking about how much money we're gonna spend on the referendum right now. And for God's sake, we had two referendums on the second track, we had a referendum on archives, and it was about the kids, but when SDS was doing the referendum, everything was fine. He could have guessed. We can't even warn him. You are totally ignoring not only civil society, not only professionally, but also the Ombudsman, who gave a good warning and found a violation of Article 44 of the Constitution of Slovenia, but also the conduct of the Ministry of the Environment and Space could not be defined as in accordance with Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention and Article 34 of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Ombudsman addressed to the Ministry of the Environment, you have not heard it, and now you are aware of how terrible, we all blame you. All those who want to have a dialogue, we set you up. All those who want to respect the laws we set you up. We warn you of a violation of the Constitution. Let me quote the Aarhus Convention, which you are violating in full and the Republic of Slovenia has signed and ratified 20. 5. 2004 and I believe that laws and conventions are in force until they are repealed. We need even a little more than a two-thirds majority in the Constitution. You can't just break the Constitution, but when the authoritarian government of Janez Janša likes it and then wonders when people protest or disagree with it, excuse me. Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention provides that "the Parties shall endeavour to promote, at an appropriate stage and when options are still open, effective participation of the public in the drafting of implementing rules and other generally binding rules of public authorities which may have a significant impact on the environment. To this end, it is necessary to set a long enough period of time for effective participation, to publish the draft rules or to make them available to the public in any other way and to give the public the opportunity to make their comments directly or through representative advisory bodies, and the outcome of public participation should be taken into account as much as possible.” What is not clear here, Your Honor, the Government and the coalition MPs? What's not to understand? You stick to the laws, because if the law doesn't apply, if the Constitution doesn't apply, then I don't know what else we have in our country, and how can we even keep the basic relationship between ourselves? Will it be like your great president says, the civil war he's threatening us with? Stick to the laws and rules, please. That's all we're asking for and dialogue, not threats. And, you know, if you Google a little bit, you'll see that water has already come to Wall Street in California as a market commodity. It came where the gold, where the oil is, is also water, and it is not fooling itself that Slovenia is watery enough that we can always have enough water, so we put it, this right to drinking water, into the Constitution. Were you in favour of that time, SDS Members? Did you vote in favour of water entry into the Constitution? Well? Because it's marketable goods and it's starting to sell water and that there's going to be a man on his land, where there's a lot of water, this moment, thirsty or going to pay, expensive, rich, but here, you know, we're on very thin ice. The air, the water, the earth, the good land we're already in, you've already sold to a large extent, and then I really don't let anyone talk to me about the pressure of the lobby, and the bribe, because, well, we know how the current power works. So, I will slowly conclude my debate, because, I think it is imperative to go to the referendum and, of course, settle the fact that there are seven places in no constituency, that more than 800 people, at this point, have no opportunity to participate in the elections. Now, let me also draw your attention to the European trend that will protect environmental projects and what the Ministry is doing against the environment is certainly not in the direction of the global trend, although some think that the Earth is flat and that the planet is cooling down because it is currently raining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Although I have somewhat, also, my opinion, my position, somewhat earlier, in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, I would still like to say or add a few more things in my debate. This proposal of yours, which began, namely, on two sides, by a healthy society and by a circle around the Eco Circle and other non-governmental organizations, which was supported or started by this political struggle of the party Levica, of course, by the zealous participation of SD President Tanja Fajon, who, of course, deceived the public at various rates, to drink pure drinking water out of the pipe, even though this Water Act is much more responsible for pure drinking water than the water legislation that has been in force until now. And at the very beginning, as soon as the adoption of the Water Act was offered an opportunity by the cool opposition or precisely the Left, there would be only one possibility to collect additional political points. Of course, on a topic such as clean drinking water, you can perfectly manipulate, deceive the public, and many people will take care of it. I hardly know a man or if I was ignorant or not to read the law that someone on the road met me or in front of an administrative unit would say or you for pure drinking water go there to sign an initiative for a referendum yeah of course I'll go to her you know that I'm for pure drinking water but who isn't, because we're all but who wouldn't be clean drinking water. It's as clear as day. And then, of course, this deceiving began, and immediately, at the start, a political struggle, a burning fight that I must say, was quite silenced by the media, or just summarised. Indeed, an orang struggle has taken place for who will have primate on the ground in choosing signatures with as misleading titles as we could watch them and this was the health society movement, which has guided or is still directed by a political party for a healthy society. These things are actually so intertwined that a person orng needs to get deeper if he wants to get inside into the heart of these diverse organizations and I've also noticed that he stands by this collection of signatures by a political party although very small, very unrecognizable, but zealous in defending against vaccination for Covid against various things, then they try to force this G5 to the full and, of course, here they have also done that this Water Act is harmful to water, harmful to the environment, harmful to nature and of course they have quickly started collecting signatures. On the other hand, with the support of the Left Eco Circle, the Omaniter, and so on, I personally have no objection to this, it is the right of every individual or group of civil initiatives to be able, after all, to the political parties of such cases in the past, but something I have absolutely opposed, of course, by deceiving in the way that was carried out in this proposal for a referendum in such a way that, of course, I cannot possibly agree. I have spoken to many people, many have also referred to me as a number of young people or older people who do not regularly read the laws, do not follow the fresh legislation and, of course, only some have heard that we have adopted a Law on Waters that threatens clean, healthy, drinking water. That's what they heard. To sell water resources by law, to sell water, to build in coastal zones, all of this has been happening, until now, we all know that. We also know that political parties do not know the SD in the previous composition, when there have been many decades in the government or in the past 20 years much more, they have worked very stepmotherly with water, water management, allowing private villas to be built on coastal strips. [[Incomprehensible]] Then, of course, these constructions prevented access to the coastal area, namely, the river, the lake, the sea. And this new law, which, of course, does some tectonic movement, now makes all this impossible and of course we go to the luft. And we went into the air and, of course, we're trying to throw this law down with a referendum. This is now your goal, your way of working. Of course, it is all about day-to-day actions, campaigns to overthrow the government, how to weaken certain political parties in order to bring this government down. And of course this great desire to continue to build private buildings, villas of wealthy people, especially those that are more than even related to you, so that these villas can continue to be built. This law, of course, prevents this, and that is essential. And I believe that when most people, most people, now that they have listened to today's debate, when they can go into the same marriage themselves, actually read it, get acquainted with these changes in the articles, and when, probably, they won't listen to you as they did now that you've got them fast on the cans, I'm sure people will change their minds. But we know that these 40,000 signatures, which was just a quorum for the referendum to be signed at all, are just a small number. Then it will be necessary to gather many more votes for the referendum. And I don't see any fear here anymore. In collecting the signatures itself, we also know that you have skillfully used digital signatures, which, of course, after the water has already flowed into the throat, has allowed you to only finally gather these signatures together. Of course, these are many organizations, nature protection, environmental protection. You even used young people, campers and so on. In short, you've made every effort to collect these necessary signatures. We know that you are also blocking this, and you are probably also aware that you are blocking the aid of the country in regulating watercourses across local communities, by municipalities. We know that over €17 million of money is intended to regulate these watercourses, which have been neglected for years and years. I am not saying that concessionaires do not work after Slovenia, but they do their job as necessary, but of course it all ends with money. I am many of these crevices, or watercourses, the river of the second order, or even the first, if I look only at my congregation Lithium, and Šmartno at Lithium, too. And also met people who had caused great material damage, damage to private property, which, of course, hurt you. Humans, their lives, and, of course, the lives of animals were also at risk. And we have three such, four such valleys just at our end in Zasavje, where we know that it is a pleasure to swim, and now you have prevented or wanted to prevent this block from accelerating, and that this regular maintenance would no longer cause so much damage. We've got the Jablanic Strait. Once you go yourself, those who are against it, go to the people there and ask them, and tell them that you are against the country's spending money on maintenance of these watercourses. Go straight to them and explain it to them, and we'll see if the speed is higher when you go there, or if it's higher when you want to come back. Kostrevniški stream, whole Kostrevniška valley, Winterjevska valley, Loki stream, Vace, Tolsti vrh, go see what the destruction was like. Again, Sava, the River Sava, Hotic, go take a look for yourself, and you'll see what it's like when the storm trooper, when the high waters do great damage. And, of course, you want to stop it now. And not only you, Members, have we heard before, but European Ambassador Tanja Fajon, but also Member of the European Party of LMŠ Klemen Grošelj, our native from Lithuania, is against this. It does not support this law, so it does not support that more money is finally invested in the maintenance of these watercourses. These watercourses that fill your mouth to endanger pure drinking water, yes, of course, if they are neglected. If it is, if it's flooding. And so on. Now, of course, this law also prevents construction on the coastal belt, where the rights come to life, let people say more out loud that the rights are revived, that the law will not now decide on construction, and that some private, private investments that you so strongly support will not be decided by the government with regulations, but will be decided by the expert body, the Water Directorate. A purely professional body which, of course, does not depend on every single government. Why don't you tell people? Go explain this to people, now that you have a campaign, and tell them these things, and you'll see what the response will be, yes, we don't want to give you watercourses, we'll arrange a riverfront for you, so they won't swim again, so they don't build private houses, no, go explain these things to people. I see only in Lithium along the Sava River would now be the party of the Levica in any way with some activist wanting to set some traps and therefore edit the coastline along the Sava River in the water protection zone. At the same time, at the same time, you do not support a new law that would allow this. I wonder how that's gonna work out, no. So, something is reality, something is real in nature, something is your populism and this political struggle you're constantly showing. And I will point out another problem that I have said many times, but for the KUL opposition, for the client of Levi, who, of course, was one of the zealous supporters of this law, go look at the Rakovnik stream in the municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania, and for tens of thousands of cubics or thousands of tons of toxic, stinking chemical wastes of Usnjar Vrhnika, fallen, in nature, in the forest and directly over the Rakovnik stream. All these years this stream receives chemicals from itself, they go into the river River and into the river Sava and beyond. Where have you been? Where have you been so far? I've never seen anyone anywhere. Isn't that interesting? But really none. Never. I don't even know what I know, because I don't even know if I know 10%. No, and there is a regular contamination of water like drinking water, like water, which then flows to the meadows, where the cows on the pastures of the grass then eat heavy metals. We have now achieved so much with this government that these heavy metals, draining water, are regularly transported to the cleaning plant. At least that's what we've achieved. You're not for that either, no, you don't like that either. Even though your predecessors allowed themselves to be treated with such negligence with nature and pollution and pure drinking water, none was concerned. Now you're running this populism here in every way that this law, the Water Act, which was passed on 30 March by this government and this National Assembly is threatening pure drinking water. Nonsense without a case. And I really believe that people will read this law themselves, that these changes are so small, but they are so essential that it is right for people to read them and be able to make sure that what you are saying is not so. And I truly believe that you will no longer be able to deceive people with these flossules about the fact that this law, and this government, President Janez Janša, which we will listen to tomorrow, is threatening pure drinking water. It's really very pathetic. I have to say, people are having a hard time listening to this, and they're having a hard time hearing it, and they're having a hard time looking at it, and they're getting more and more at it just a handful of people, and it's true that then they're very involved in the field, and they're trying to get as many people as they can. Of course, I will also support the amendment proposed for this referendum to take place on 11 July, not on 4 July, as envisaged, we have heard why, the explanation was clear on the Infrastructure Committee yesterday, the representative of the State-will headquarters, or Mr Vukko, who explained why this has occurred in the transfer of these data to one of the annexes, and Mr Medved has also identified the previously-received villages as being those who have gone out and therefore we are not guilty Members who have listened to this here and you are Members of the blame, but the coalition is guilty. We know exactly why a technical problem has occurred, why it has occurred and so on, whether it could have been prevented or whether it was even something God knows how screwed up, which we do not like to know, it will probably be later explored or found out, and of course this error needs some time to be corrected. And it is by no means true what I have listened to all afternoon, or all day long, that now people will not be able to go to the referendum on 11 July, because everyone will be on vacation, which will be at one time all your supporters, who are to support your proposal that the Water Act fall, will be at one time on vacation, and on 4 July not yet. I don't know if you have information about them when someone's going to go somewhere, but if anyone really does, if they believe you in these crowds that people listen to, of course, with a lot of media support, but we can keep listening to the media about these deceptions, then these people will wait and come back that day and decide at the referendum to give it a different way. And I am sure that people will be more supportive every day at all, because we will also be explaining to them especially if everyone needs to know that you have informed them and that you still want to deceive them with this pure drinking water and with these sales of water resources and so on and people will decide for themselves as they need to be. I certainly hope that the law will remain in force in the form it is and that, above all, the local communities will have some of it, as well as all people, i.e. citizens and citizens. However, I advise you to try to be a little more constructive than before, and just tell people that you have made them public, that you have deceived them, and that you are still trying to deceive them, and that the law is fine, that there is no problem with this law, and that it is more in favour of all Slovenia and all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u101	Thank you very much. It's a replica. A replica of Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u102	Since Member Doblekar of the SDS has spent half of his debate on the question of what Lefta thinks and what Lefta really is doing, allow me a very short replica. Yes, of course, Mr. Doblekar, but you come from completely wrong assumptions. The Left Manifesto you read yourself is a false manifesto. Yeah, you even gave the logo wrong, I'm sorry, and you can't conclude anything from this manifesto. If you really read our documents, you might think otherwise, and of course Left will never oppose beneficial laws, regardless of whether they come from your kind. We are opposed to authoritarianism, lack of dialogue. Now you're saying you want to arrange watercourses, floods and poor people because the Left won't let them. And now it is also understandable why, among other things, you want to submit all the media, because you will tell people your truth again, and those who report objectively will be headed and without all means.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u103	Please focus on the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u104	Thank you very much. That was my replica. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u105	So are we. Thank you. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate in which the Minister of Environment and Space and the representative of the proposer are given the floor. There is no minister, so Bojan Podkoršek gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u106	Thank you. The honourable Vice-President of this National Assembly will explain something more at the conclusion of today's debate. Of course, as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of this National Assembly, let me say that we are in this National Assembly on 30 March 2021, this year the Law we are talking about this year. On the committee, this law was adopted by 11 votes to 8 with 8 votes. As I said in the introduction, about all the laws we adopt are numerically passed somewhere between 11-8 and 10-7. Yesterday's committee meeting, let me say that the 17 votes for the initiative, or the referendum that awaits us in July, were neither a handful of concerns by the opposition nor by the coalition. Today, all day or all afternoon, we have listened to the eyewitnesses or ministers or to those who have accepted this law to the detriment of the marriage, especially to the harm of healthy drinking water. As chairman of the committee, I certainly cannot agree with this. All afternoon we listened, of course, that over 60,000 signatures were collected. I have also said in the introduction that no one is in this National Assembly or in the Republic of Slovenia, that he is not worried about healthy drinking water, and that he is not worried about the air we breathe every day. And of course, when someone calls someone to go for healthy drinking water, there's no one at risk who has doubts and doesn't sign these petitions for a referendum. Now in the Republic of Slovenia, for these strategic things as well as healthy drinking water, which is water care we will be able to have some common goals, especially those that we have paid both Members and Members of this National Assembly, and especially those who are paid outside this State Council with tax money. Maybe one of the cases that stabbed me as chairman of this committee is the Slovenian Fisheries Authority. I have no doubt that this institution does not carry out its mission, of course, to which this institution is responsible. When I went to IJPES I found that this institution, of course, I have no doubts that it does not work well, that it has over 2 million revenue from this poor million in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia means tax money and I still have no concerns here. However, I have doubts when an expert at this Institute of Fisheries writes an e-mail during business hours and calls on various institutions to sign for a referendum, but is concerned about this letter, where incorrect data are written. Now I want to say that when we talk about some common goals that touch us all, even those who still do not have healthy drinking water on their taps today, I say, in particular, that we drive on one common road, and I repeat those that are paid from the taxpayer's money. This is our joint task to reach one common goal, which this law, which Master Andrej Vizjak brought to the National Assembly at the beginning of this year, has been at many coordinations, which follows that not even in a handful of doubts, that healthful drinking water is being touched, but that the municipalities or watercourses that have been fed in previous years, to which all of us, together with both the left and right, are being warned by Slovenian mayors, that they must also be cleaned up many times by human negligence, in short with this law, by the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides 17 million more necessary money, of course with this referendum, and with this initiative these funds are halted. We just need to be aware of what can happen in the summer or autumn times ahead of us an hour of intense storms in some of the congregations for how many millions of damage we can do. Throughout the afternoon, we have heard the concerns that the coalition is proposing an amendment that will postpone the referendum Sunday for one week, which means from July 4th to July 11th. Let me remind you of yesterday's committee meeting, at which the Director of the National Election Commission, Mr Vukko, who warned us on two segments, in particular the proposers, that with this, this initiative of the referendum to be held in July, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, in the thirties, it is happening because we are in the most difficult situation, here I have in mind Covid, who has been following us for over a year and a half, that because we need more than 18,000 citizens and citizens to have enough time to meet this condition, this is one of the segments he has warned us about. The second segment, however, is that of course it is not for [[?]] guilty, neither the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee, nor any Member or Member of this National Assembly, but there has been a mistake, this was also acknowledged by GURS that some areas have fallen out and that they need to be rectified. Therefore, the coalition of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC parties has drafted an amendment to the referendum Sunday, which was also confirmed yesterday by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, for 1 week, that is, 7 days, on 11 July. However, I must point out that those who accompany us, and also remind you, colleagues and colleagues who have doubts at this point that we are still within 65 days. “So”, we follow all hands and, of course, we have one week more time to be these two important segments, which were pointed out by the Director of the National Election Commission, Mr Vukko, of course, to meet them. It's our job, and it's our duty. In short, to conclude slowly, there is no one in this National Assembly who has doubts about the signatures that have been gathered for this initiative for the referendum before us. However, I call on all of you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to speak about the law, in fact, such as the Ministry of Environment and Space brought to this Assembly at the beginning of this year, which we have also voted on the Committee on Environment and Space and which was also confirmed on 30 March 2021, this National Assembly. As Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, I will never agree or allow on our committee to deal with corrupt laws that go to the detriment of citizens and citizens, but I will not allow the laws we adopt on our committee, as a result also in this National Assembly, to be politically abused and we want them in these difficult times in which Slovenia is, we want things to go wrong, some to go against the Government. In short, we must be aware that the congregations need these 17 million and that this law, which is awaiting the referendum Sunday, is not harmful, but goes to the welfare of citizens and citizens, and especially follows what Slovenians and Slovenians are proud of, is not what many nations in the world have, it is healthy drinking water — I repeat, many countries or nations do not have the opportunity to put a glass under it when they open a pipe and drink it. All good for healthy drinking water in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u107	Thank you very much. A replica of Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u108	Thank you very much, chairman. I have listened very carefully to Mr Podkórodsk on behalf of the proposer. And there's one thing I want to know if I got it right. Here you've shown AJPES, which has 2 million traffic a year. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u109	colleague [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u110	I must have misunderstood. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u111	Okay, that's just not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u112	I'm asking if I got it wrong. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u113	If he doesn't get you wrong, he's a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u114	One million tax dollars. I have a question: will the IAPES also join the fates of the Court of Auditors, STA and others? And does it mean that if you're a state [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u115	Colleague, that's not a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u116	You can't be critical of an employee. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u117	That's not a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u118	to the nebulosis of that government. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u119	Please go to the replica or either [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u120	I'm just curious. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u121	That's not a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u122	if I understood what Mr. Podkoršek was saying. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u123	You have a replica, colleague. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u124	Because it's scary. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u125	If he didn't understand you correctly [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u126	I didn't understand him. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u127	That's not a replica. Read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u128	Thank you. I asked because I was curious. I guess I won't get an answer. Thank you. I'm very concerned about the way SDS representatives think.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u129	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u130	Scary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u131	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled. I am putting forward the fourth section and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. Because nobody wants to discuss, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendment will take place in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I interrupt this agenda item and the 74th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 8 p.m. and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.37 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 20.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Proceed with break 1. Point of the agenda, this is by way of a proposal to draw up a legislative referendum on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act concerning the Proposal for a Decision on the Schedule of the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 25. 5. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Section 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members present, for 43, for 42. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act as a whole. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 171 and in conjunction with the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I am informing you that the Rule of Law or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the motion for a decree would not be harmonised. We're voting. An explanation? On behalf of the parliamentary group, Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u133	Yeah, thank you, Chairman, no. Well, we just saw with this amendment that we're playing people again, like we've been playing all along, and when this law was passed. You have 62 thousand reasons to ask yourself what is wrong with your water law, namely, article 37 of the law. And you won't ask yourself, even though it's all wrong. At first, you have acquired a carousel past the interested public, a reduced procedure, in short, no public debate, then you planted the 37th article, which is extremely harmful and which actually resulted in the collection of signatures for the referendum, because this article is what is controversial, because it greatly reduces restrictions on the construction of buildings along surface waters and opens doors for the construction and restriction of access to shores and coastlines. Well, for the sake of redesigning electoral thefts, you've been able to afford a great deal of electoral work, which 811 voters and voters have deleted from the electoral register, and now you're using it as an alibi to postpone the referendum decision at the time of your vacation, July 11, which is a disgrace, a disgrace, a disgrace, July 11th, in the middle of your vacations. Don't be shy. So you fear the will of the people, the people who have learned how to lie and manipulate, even though you have been trying to say all day today how we will not be able to clean up the watercourses, but in fact you have silenced the essence. The essence of Article 37 is that it is a key limitation element that has been in force so far, and this was that interventions were only possible on building sites. After the new they will be possible everywhere, which means that we will be able to build recreational areas, playgrounds, hotels, museums, garages, shopping centers, anything. And you'll be saying that you're guarding our water and you'll be saying that we're deceiving and that we're lying. In short, people know and have come to know your manipulations, you'll do everything you can to limit their pronunciation, so you moved to July 11th to put high barriers to it, [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will, of course, vote in favour of the referendum in Levica and call on people to come in as large a number as possible and to reject this cited Article 37. Let the debate be reopened as it must be opened. There can be changes, but in a democratic way. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament Dusan Šisko? No, no, no. We're voting. On your own? I'm sorry. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u135	Thank you. I will support the referendum, but my colleague has disturbed me to take a look at the vote and to apologize to all the other Members because their Member did not vote because he was not present. If I had voted, it would have been a different vote on the amendment. However, I think that the 11th, 7th issue is also disputed unless electoral legislation is regulated, because 811 citizens will not be able to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members present, 85 votes against 2. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is an on-the-spot proposal for the election of a judge's office at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 7 May 2021, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed the candidate Dr Mark Ilešić as a single judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Please, be quiet! In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Kovac, Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u137	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of a public call from the Ministry in August of last year, the Minister of Justice forwarded the nominations of seven candidates and candidates for one seat of Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The term of office of the current judge expires in October this year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave a positive opinion on the nominations of Prof. Dr. Anžet Arbežnik and Prof. Dr. Verica Trstenjak. On the basis of the criteria of the European Committee 255 and the need for a faster and more successful conclusion of the proceedings, the Council decided to draw up only a position on which the candidate is considered to be the best and which has not been identified by other candidates. He accepted the unanimous view that Dr. Marko Ilešič was the best candidate. Mr Miro Prek, Dr Maja Brkan and Prof. Verica Trstenjak withdrew from the candidacy during the period until the consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. On the basis of the opinions and views gathered and the opinion of the candidates, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly a proposal by Dr Mark Ilešić, a doctor of law science, an experienced and distinguished judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Dr Marko Ilešič is a long-standing judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union and one of the most respected legal experts with rich academic and managerial experience. He enjoys outstanding and undeniable reputation and respect in this place. He is the multiple President of the Chambers of this Court. Fellow judges elected him twice as the first of the judges from the new countries of the European Union to preside over the Senate of Five Judges. Dr Ilešič is one of the four judges of the EU court who would have been appointed the most as judge, rapporteur in some of the most resilient and important cases before the Grand Chamber in the last 16 years. Thus, among other things, the rapporteur was an extremely important judge in the Google judgment, by which the court ruled on the so-called right to forget. It was an assessment of the possibility of unlimited use of personal data on web search engines. This judgment, as well as many others adopted under the leadership of Dr Ilešič, has had long-term consequences and, among other things, has been the basis for the adoption of relevant European personal data protection legislation, which now explicitly defines this right. Dr Ilešič is also active in the educational and publicist field and a guest of professional meetings and lectures at various universities and lectures in the Supreme Courts and Constitutional Courts of the EU Member States. Prior to the performance of his current post, he was an outstanding professor in civil economic and international private law and a prodecan and dean of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. For more than 30 years, you have been engaged in these legal areas, which also stems from most of the disputes of the European Court of Justice. The rich theoretical contribution in these professional areas is also reflected in its bibliography of 448 units. Despite his long stay abroad, Dr. Ilešič maintained an important contact with the domestic legal environment. As he said at a public presentation in the Presidential Palace, he feels the duty to repay his debt to his country, so he devotes a great deal of concern and time to transferring his experience and knowledge to Slovenia, with a published contribution to the Slovenian legal press and public appearances, lectures and offering opportunities to complement many young lawyers from Slovenia. Dr. Ilešič actively masters English, French, Croatian, Italian, German, Polish and Care languages and passively Latin, Portuguese, Spanish and all Slovenian languages. It will be possible for it to continue its judicial work in a smooth manner, as the oral test before the 255 Committee is not necessary. This is limited only to a formal written review of the judgments and its work as a rapporteur judge. Due to the exceptional expertise and experience of the excellent knowledge of the work of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the high reputation and respect it enjoys in the domestic and international professional environment, the President of the Republic proposes that Dr Mark Ilešič elect a candidate for the post of Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of a candidate for a judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the voting committee, namely Franc Breznik SDS, Andreja Zabret LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija Levica and Blaž Pavlin Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Members or Members is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that, during the secret ballots, persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 20.35 hours and will last until 20.50 hours. I interrupt this agenda item and the 74th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 21:00 and 5 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 20.25.) (The sitting resumed at 21.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-25-SDZ8-Izredna-74.ana.u139	We continue with the adjourned session and the second item on the proposal for the election of a candidate for a judge to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Let me read the minutes: The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 25 May 2021. 86 ballots were distributed, 86 ballots were delivered. There were six invalid ballots. There were 80 valid ballots. 37 members voted against. 43 members voted against. The candidate, Dr Marko Ilešič, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, and for this he was not elected a candidate for a judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Since Dr Marko Ilešič has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, new elections shall be held on the basis of new nominations. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 74th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
