ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Igor Zorčič, Luka Mesec from 17:00 on, Nataša Sukič from 9.30 a.m. to 13 p.m., Matej Tašner Vatovec, Alenka Bratusek, Željko Cigler, Nik Prebil, Nada Brinovšek, Carmen Furman, Franc Rosec, Franci Kepa, Leon Merjasec, Branko Grims, Bojana Muršič, Violeta Tomić at 3 p.m. and Branko Simonovic at 12 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. On the basis of the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the mandate of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Equalisation for the year 2020, on the basis of the 6th Regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the mandate of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment or Equalisation for the year 2020, on the draft Recommendation. The reports were submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the word to the Ombudsman, Peter Sveti, for further explanation of the reports. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, welcome! Today I present to you the 26th Regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. Almost all of the year 2020 to which the report relates, we have encountered measures to protect life and health as a result of the coronary disease pandemic. The government had to react quickly, but also in exceptional situations it is essential that the rules are written clearly and taken into account in the standard of human rights. I'm sorry I missed that in the last year and a half. The problems that people are facing us, I want to resolve between those who are concerned, and only then to discuss the issue in public. I'm not in a heated epidemic situation and I don't want to be a generator or even a multiplier of messages that divide people more, but I want to solve problems in a democratic dialogue. When it is not or is not possible to reach it, I will raise my voice and draw attention to what needs to be highlighted at a certain point. A number of other colleagues of the Ombudsman and the National Institute for Human Rights at European and global level have also acted similarly. I've been in very intense contact with them all along. At the Ombudsman's time of the pandemic, we have often encountered criticism that we are not referring to the Constitutional Court regarding government decisions. I would like to point out that we have acted proactively and that some of our proposals have been taken into account within a week, which has had an almost immediate effect on the lives of individuals. If we decided to evaluate constitutionality, this could take months or a year. In view of the significantly higher number of calls and initiatives of individuals and individuals than in recent years, we find that the measures have changed very often and that individuals have found it difficult to understand what is currently valid and why. People had a legitimate feeling that these regulations were being adopted by means of and without question, inopportunely. In people, it is untrustworthy that three different issues of the Official Journal were published in one day. Looking at the annual level, the number of Official Journal numbers has more than doubled in 2020 and this trend of rapid adoption and publication of regulations does not appear to be over this year. I therefore call on all those responsible to ensure that the rapid adoption of the rules without adequate public debate and inter-departmental consultation does not become a new norm. Last year was the whole period of learning to deal with the health crisis. However, this did not justify the fact that many of the regulations adopted were written too often in a vague, hand-to-hand manner, without clear professional justification and judgment in terms of the necessity of human rights. We highlighted the importance of ensuring general confidence in the conduct of authority and that the measures introduced should be adequately clarified and widely accessible. As of March last year, we warn and realise that all measures must be adopted in a legitimate way, so that they must be proportionate, necessary, non-discriminatory, legitimate, professionally justified and time-limited. For the first time in Slovenia alone, as a society, we dealt with the question of where are the limits of the permissible limitation of our rights and freedoms, that is to say where my rights go and where the rights of others begin. For the first time, there was also a broader discussion and awareness that most human rights are not absolute, which I think is extremely important. It is also important to understand the constitutional provision that rights and freedoms can only be restricted by law. We have often drawn attention to the problem of decision-making, as it is an appropriate and concrete legal basis when it comes to limiting human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Constitutional Court has also attached this to it. The executive branch of the Authority must, after verification of human rights abuses to the legislator. I expect the work of the competent authorities in this area to improve. Last year we addressed only the Government or its President with 43 different inquiries. I have to admit, most of them have also been taken into account. Nearly 900 opinions, proposals, inquiries and calls were also addressed to various ministries. We have dealt with about a third of more cases than in the past years, that is 6 000 825 cases, of which 3 000 770 initiatives. In 346 cases, we found 473 violations of rights and other irregularities. Most of the time we have found violations of equality before the law, the principles of good governance, the protection of privacy rights and personal rights, the rule of law and the social state, the right to personal dignity and security. The most violations, as many as 66, were identified by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is followed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of the Interior, social work centres and others. The principle of good governance also requires that ministries, government services, municipalities and other public institutions respond in a timely and reasoned manner to the proposals adopted. It is necessary to strengthen their awareness of the explanatory duty they have. Each civil servant should be aware that his or her attitude toward work and people can have a significant impact on the lives of an individual. We know that in the last year and a half, the heads of the authorities have had a lot of work to do to limit the epidemic, but this cannot be an excuse for not functioning as a state apparatus. We should also be aware of this by employees, for example, at social work centres, where individuals are in severe distress. We also often encounter unacceptable delays, production and information acquisition in the Ombudsman. If the authorities do not answer to us who have a statutory mandate and we are a national human rights institution, not to the Government and indirectly to the National Assembly, then what is the relationship between these authorities and ordinary citizens? How difficult, then, do individuals who are often estranged, insensitive, often completely alone and powerless in front of a state bureaucrat apparatus come to answer? In the recommendation we propose 128 new recommendations to improve the work of the various bodies legislatively and to implement legislation in practice. All are important and essential in order to maintain a high standard of respect for human rights in the future as a society. Warning and remedying human rights violations is not about measuring the muscles between the Ombudsman and the authorities we warn, but about the rights of each individual in Slovenia. One such case was recommended number 83 by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The Ministry and the Government reject the implementation of this recommendation due to disagreement and report that in 2021 only electronic service of the joints through the eVŠ portal was introduced, thus establishing that our recommendation has been actually taken into account and that there will be no more cases requiring our intervention. In the annual report, we also highlight 156 current past recommendations that remain either unfulfilled or partially unfulfilled. I call on the competent authorities to take seriously the implementation of our recommendations and the resolution of concrete violations for the benefit of the people. While the recommendations of the Ombudsman's Institute are not legally binding, their implementation is an indicator of how much the Government, individual state authorities or their officials are actually committed to strengthening respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is worrying that the number of unexecuted judgments of the Constitutional Court increased last year. By the end of 2020, 18 so-called finding judgments had not been implemented and 13 had already been implemented and 13 had not been implemented at the end of 2019. I expect the Government to establish or establish a special mechanism to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is unacceptable that the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the constitutionality found in the Infectious Diseases Act has not yet been implemented, even though the deadline has expired. I also call on the competent authorities to adopt, within the time limit of December 2021, decisions that will give due effect to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 10 December 2020 on the provision of the financial autonomy of the State Council, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors concerning certain provisions of the Public Finance Act. Constitutional rights must be taken seriously. Let me also recall once again the right to drinking water, which we have written down in the Constitution years ago, and the competent ministry has not yet prepared or adopted appropriate acts for its implementation. I fear that the constitutional right to sign language will follow a similar course. In 2020, marked by the pandemic, we addressed a total of 295 social protection issues. The biggest increase was in the field of institutional protection, where 80 % more initiatives were taken than the year before, which goes on to prescribe the covida-19 pandemic. We have warned that the issue of social protection in particular of the elderly remains burning and deepening. In this regard, particular concern was expressed that the situation in institutions, especially in nursing homes, is deteriorating due to lack of staff. In addition, for at least three years now, we have been warning that existing human resources standards in nursing homes are insufficient in view of the growing need for care and assistance and the more demanding medical care needed by the user. We note that there is a lack of adequate services to support people who want to live in the home environment, but without additional care and assistance they cannot live alone. The competent ministry is once again called upon to finally start deinstitutionalisation and not just decentralisation of existing institutions. Failure to implement deinstitutionalisation also constitutes a violation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have already recommended in last year's annual report that they provide and adopt appropriate legal bases to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia establishes an independent body for the implementation of this Convention, but this has not happened for more than 10 years. This year we therefore propose to appoint the Ombudsman responsible for this task, who is internationally accredited as a national human rights institution with status A in Paris and is actively monitoring the implementation of the Convention. With regard to institutional protection, in relation to covid-19, the largest initiatives on the issue of disablement of contact with property have been, and we have assessed that there is a very low level of awareness of all the negative consequences of such isolation of people who, according to our assessment, have not been adequately considered in relation to the question of proportionality of measures. We have noted that beneficiaries of disability benefits under the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities Act and family assistants should also be included among the most vulnerable groups of the population under the crisis tax. Following our warning, the Act on additional measures to mitigate the consequences of COVID-19, which has added to the beneficiaries of the solidarity allowance compensation from disability insurance, which are working shorter hours and are on temporary hold for work or are absent from work due to increased force. Our proposal has also been taken into account with regard to the provision of basic monthly income under the intervention law, which has bound the right to specific months, which has placed some self-employed persons, who, due to covid-19, have significantly reduced the scope of their activities, in an unequal situation with respect to other persons in the same situation. We have found that the competent ministry did not wish to conclude contracts for the implementation of personal assistance, which we believe is unacceptable. In doing so, we did a survey at the Ministry of Finance, which stated that the reasons for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities do not hold. On the basis of our findings and criticism, the competent ministry has recommenced contracts. The consequences of the epidemic have also been reflected in the field of health insurance. The new Health and Health Insurance Act is still missing and the rights of insured persons continue to be regulated only by a sub-law, which is an inadmissible violation of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia established by the Constitutional Court. Decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the Mental Health Act remain unexecuted. Despite our calls, 2020 has not made any progress on the regulation of psychotherapy. Experts daily warn that the mental health of individuals has deteriorated during the pandemic, and mental distress will increase long after it ends. Access to professional assistance has already been hampered by long waiting periods. For many years now, all the alarms have been triggered, and it is absurd that the Ministry of Health in the response report says that this is not their priority at this time. Individuals and individuals in distress must therefore find their own way and seek help in an untransparent set of psychotherapists whose activities are not regulated. The appropriate legal regime for psychotherapy is also necessary due to the covida-19 pandemic. We have also dealt with the area of children's rights, and we have found that the Family Code and the Law on Unfair Procedure have further increased the need for experts in clinical psychology for children, psychiatry and pedophiliatry, which unfortunately has been reflected in the delays in court proceedings, which we have been alerting for years. Family courts often act too slowly, causing great distress for both children and parents. Various bodies and institutions must cooperate and connect in child care. The institutions are only bureaucratically e-mailing and thereby elevating the responsibility for the full protection of children's rights. We expect more cooperation and courage for decisions. The announcement of the epidemic last March also called for adjustments to work in the field of child protection. Children who do not have a safe environment have at this time drawn the shortest end, and experience in advocacy has confirmed this. We have recommended to the government that the possibility of contact between parents and children living in different municipalities is not contrary to the purpose of restricting the movement to the municipality of residence. This recommendation has been adopted. We also started the project last year. If you see the injustices, use the rights! to raise children's awareness of their rights. With regard to the situation of children with special needs, we have highlighted the need to respect the principle of positive discrimination, which is also guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. At a time when distance education was carried out in Slovenia due to the coronavirus, we warned that all students do not yet have the same learning opportunities. In general, we have also observed that the measures envisaged to limit the spread of coronary disease have been affected to a greater extent by socially excluded vulnerable groups. With regard to national and ethnic communities, we have devoted concern to informing, caring and assisting Slovenians around the world and replacing and informing the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities about covido-19. We also drew attention to informing the elderly of the Roma in particular and to the problem of education of Roma children during distance education. In the area of equality before the law and the prohibition of discrimination, we have received many initiatives in relation to covid-19, and in this area we have also found the biggest infringement. We have addressed criticism to the Government regarding a measure that prohibited the purchase of food outside the time for the purchase of vulnerable groups over 65 years of age, and the measure has been repealed. Much dust has raised our position in the public that the government decree establishing the obligation to wear protective masks does not provide the appropriate legal basis for sanctioning the offence, but I would like to point out again and clearly that we have never called for the failure to wear masks and non-compliance with protective epidemiological measures. We have often warned the Government and the Ministry that the legal basis of the Illuminated Diseases Act is insufficient, which was later confirmed by the Constitutional Court when it found that the provisions of Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, on which most co-vids of measures are based, are inconsistent with the Constitution. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have drawn attention to the importance of the culture of dialogue and the ethics of the public word. I note with concern that the epidemic of intolerance and hostility has also spread during the time of the restrictive measures. I strongly condemned the events when some prominent representatives of the medical profession were branded as killers of the Slovenian people in the fight against the epidemic. I've called the authorities of detection and prosecution to instill hate speech. The Centre for Human Rights, which is one of the Ombudsman's organizational units, has prepared a comprehensive analysis of the prosecution's practice of persecuting so-called hate speech, which is also available on our website. It is worrying that no novelty or new personal data protection law has been adopted in 2020 with regard to the General Data Protection Regulation. We cannot agree with the solutions relating to the Keeper. I would point out that, following the proposed regime of procedures before the Ombudsman, they could no longer be classified, but that the documentation could also be peer-reviewed by the executive branch of the Authority. This is absolutely unacceptable to us. Last year, we were approached by several individuals, institutions dealing with the fight against human trafficking. We join the criticism of the legislation currently in force, whereby foreign citizens who are victims of trafficking in human beings are entitled only to emergency medical care. We do not yet have a designated national rapporteur for combating trafficking in human beings in Slovenia, and we are also reminded of the Council of Europe expert group on action against trafficking in human beings. The Ombudsman is prepared to take over the role of the national rapporteur for combating trafficking in human beings. We were negatively surprised by the incomprehensible reservations expressed by the Ministry of Justice in response, but we are pleased that the Ministry of the Interior supports our proposal. With regard to police procedures, we have warned that the police must remain independent, impartial and professional in the performance of their duties at this time as well. The question of the eligibility of the use of police authority to determine the identity of persons has also been raised in dealing with police officers with the supervision of measures to prevent the spread of covid-19 disease. We have assessed that the identification procedure under the Law on Police Tasks and Powers is justified only if there is at least a pre-existing suspicion that a person will execute, execute or commit a crime or offence. We have given special attention to restrictions on freedom of assembly and association in order to prevent or to prevent the spread of the epidemic. In this regard, we have received different writings both for those who have challenged such restrictions and for those who have expected more radical government interventions. We have stressed that freedom of peaceful assembly and association, together with freedom of expression, applies to the essential building blocks of democratic society, but freedom of assembly and association does not protect the protests in which organisers and participants have violent purposes. In the field of the environment, anti-Korona law has been given a lot of attention in 2020, which has limited the proper and effective participation of the public in all administrative and judicial proceedings which have and may have an impact on the environment. We have noted that such an arrangement is inconsistent with the Constitution and the Aarhus Convention. We will also follow this issue into the future. On the subject of climate change, one of the meetings of the Ombudsman Council was also held. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the annual report today, I am also presenting the report of the state preventive mechanism for 2020. The objective of the State preventive mechanism is to strengthen the protection of persons deprived of their liberty against torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. We visit those places in Slovenia where individuals who have been deprived of their liberty could or could have been installed. Last year we visited 51 places of deprivation of liberty and also carried out two monitoring of the return of foreigners. During the epidemic year, we added crisis centres for young people to new places of deprivation. In special social security institutions, we checked the oversustainment of protected departments in the thematic visits. We have reiterated our concerns about the unsustainable situation and called for appropriate solutions. This situation, which has lasted for more than 10 years, can undoubtedly be described as mistreatment of residents, for which the country is responsible. In particular, we have also warned that it is unacceptable to place juvenile residents in an adult institution and that it is imperative to seek appropriate solutions. After the last meeting with several ministers in February this year, I hope that this issue will move forward. In particular, I would like to highlight visits to nursing homes. In these visits, we have seen for years that there are major difficulties in obtaining a legal basis for detention in homes where the protection of residents is not carried out by locking down the department. We have still often observed and warned of the human resources crisis in nursing homes. This one is further exacerbated by the epidemic. We have repeatedly pointed out the modest number of employees in the nighttime when, for example, no one in the protected section is uninterrupted. The lack of staff is undoubtedly also the reason for early beding during the evening, which makes residents often wake up at night, increasing the use of sleepers. We have warned about this since last year, and we are concerned that we have not seen any significant progress in this area as well. In detention facilities, only concerned about the slow implementation of our recommendations. All institutions, except the Koper Institute, are located in old and inadequate facilities which are not suitable for modern ways of ending the prison sentence. On visits to police stations, we have found that our recommendation has still not been implemented to explore the possibility of ensuring access to liquid water in shorter detention facilities, which is up to 12 hours. We made 329 recommendations in the DPM last year. Responses from competent institutions are generally good. I expect the institutions to take into account all our recommendations, as well as the faster response to the recommendations made, since only half of them were implemented before the annual report is prepared. Dearly noted, 2020 has been a special or even historic year for our institution, because this year, for the first time in history as an institution, we have acquired status A according to the Paris principles on the status of national human rights institutions. This means an important international recognition for us. The annual report we are considering is available on our website as it was last year. We also published a publication this year containing a summary of the work and covering a short report, a set of all the recommendations. I hope and believe that this manual will help you in your work as a reminder of the adoption of legislation and the consistent implementation of our recommendations. This year, too, the government has prepared a response report that addresses all our recommendations. We are pleased that several of our previous recommendations have been implemented compared to last year, but at the same time we note that a large number of partially implemented and unrealised recommendations remain. That is why I look forward to the speedy implementation of all our recommendations. It is worrying, however, that 11 of our new recommendations and 14 more from previous years have been rejected due to disagreement. For us, that's unacceptable. We are particularly concerned that eight of the 11 recommendations rejected relate to the rights of persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. We've got a lot of work to do here, ladies and gentlemen. We expect the Government and the bodies to which the recommendations relate to to to implement all our recommendations and end the cycle of repetition. Respect for human rights must not be negotiated. Only with collective strength will we be able to move forward so that the quality of human rights can be felt by each of us. Changes are necessary, even if this requires more effort, major systemic changes or financial resources. Mr President-in-Office, honourable Members, I would like to end by thanking you for your cooperation – this is the last annual report you are considering in your mandate – to thank you for your appointment to this difficult function, especially each of you and all the parliamentary groups for their very creative work, cooperation and understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The reports were addressed by the Commission as a parent labour force for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and drafted a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. The position or proposal will be presented by Commission President Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities shall be held at its 11th meeting, on 28. 9. 2021 dealt with the 26th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 by a report of the Ombudsman on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism submitted by him for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman. In the opening recital, the Ombudsman highlighted the importance of independent state institutions for the functioning of democratic society within the meaning of the system of brakes and balances. This proved to be particularly important in 2020, marked by the epidemic. The unimplemented recommendations of the Ombudsman from 2012 to 2019 are about 300 and have been verified. The current and outstanding or partially unfulfilled recommendations remain 156 and 128 new recommendations are added in 2020. In 2020, they addressed a third of more cases than in previous years. The most frequently identified violations are related to equality before the law, the principle of good governance, the rights of a safe and social state, the right to personal dignity and security and so on. Most violations, as many as 66, have been identified in the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Following are the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of the Interior, social work centres and others. The problem of social protection for older persons remains acute and deepens. Staff standards in nursing homes are inadequate; restrictions on contact with relatives at the time of the epidemic have not been sufficiently weighed. The consequences of the epidemic have also been reflected in the field of health insurance. A negative impact on children was declared an epidemic in March 2020. In distance education, not all had equal opportunities for education, but often the most vulnerable groups were affected by the measures. The Government and the ministries have been warned that the legal basis of the Law on Infectious Diseases is inadequate to take individual measures, as the Constitutional Court later found. A large number of partially implemented and unrealised recommendations remain. With regard to the implementation of the recommendations, some progress has been observed, but it is too slow. It is worrying that 11 new Ombudsman’s recommendations and 14 more from previous years have been rejected as a result of disagreement. It is worrying that most of the recommendations rejected relate to the rights of persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. As far as the work of the State preventive mechanism is concerned, the Ombudsman's institution has been implementing it for 13 years. Because of the epidemic, fewer visits were made last year. They faced completely practical problems, such as lack of protective equipment. It is unacceptable that the 15 recommendations of the competent institutions have not been taken into account and it is encouraging that the State preventive mechanism does not identify cases of torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour in its visits. Following the Commission's consideration as the working body of the State Council, a representative of the Council gave an opinion, and a representative of the Government presented a joint response report to the Government, coordinated by the Ministry of Justice, which is the result of the joint work of all departments. This was followed by presentations of the positions of all the invited ministries, with the exception of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities, which justified their absence. Representatives of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor, the Advocate of the principle of equality and the Slovenian Karitas also submitted their views. There was also a debate between Members and Members. An integral part of the report is also a proposal for a recommendation drawn up and unanimously adopted by the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and addressed today by the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 272 and 111. The recommendation is: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that all institutions and officials at all levels take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the Sixteenth Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zlatko Ratej will present the Government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members, the Ombudsman, remain here! The Ombudsman's annual report shows a comprehensive picture of the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms in our country, presents the progress we have made in this regard, and of course highlights areas where we have been less successful in which we will have to do more in the future. The left share of the issues dealt with by the Ombudsman in the reports is one way or another touching on the powers of the Government, so it is right that the Government responds to them. In the joint response report of the Government to the reports of the Ombudsman for 2020, we are responding to two reports of the Ombudsman. On the 26th annual report of the Ombudsman and on the special thematic report on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism relating to torture and inhumane treatment of persons deprived of their liberty. This year, too, the Ministry of Justice coordinated the preparation of a joint response report, and all departments contributed the content. The main response report of the Government is the identification of the Government up to the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the regular annual report. These recommendations are carefully examined and evaluated by individual departments, explain the activities related to the recommendations, implement or explain the reasons why they have not been implemented. This year, the Ombudsman made 116 new recommendations concerning the Government. Of this, 34 recommendations have already been made, 48 partially implemented, 17 not implemented, and 25 recommendations are a permanent task. The Ombudsman also reiterated 138 recommendations made to the Government in recent years. These recommendations have been evaluated by the authorities last year. However, the comparison with this year's evaluations shows that there has been an improvement in 26 cases and in one case a deterioration in the assessment. With regard to the repeated recommendations, the situation is therefore as follows. 34 recommendations were fully implemented, which is 16 more than last year. As a result, the number of partially implemented recommendations decreased by six, so now there are 48 such recommendations. However, the number of unrealised recommendations decreased from 29 to 17. We are aware that much work remains to be done to achieve the desired level of protection of rights and freedoms, but the statistics just presented show positive movements. Allow me to introduce some of them. A proposal for a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits has been prepared which introduces automation in the award of a child supplement in kind if the inspectorate informs the Centre for Social Work of the introduction of a criminal procedure against the parents of a learner who does not attend the lesson for unjustified reasons. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is under-law in kindergartens, primary schools and primary schools with a tailor-made programme of systematic placement of Roma assistants. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which deletes the condition of injury at work or occupational illness, has also been amended to recognise the right to disability. The Institute for Retirement and Disability Insurance has begun a period which is recognised to political prisoners under the Law on the Correction of Unlaws, to be regarded as a retirement period without totality. The information system of the Centre for Social Work has been updated, the Law on the Protection of Children in Criminal Procedure and Their Integrated Treatment in the Children's House has also been adopted and, last but not least, an online auction has been launched in practice in the enforcement process. As I have already said, it is also part of a joint response to the Government's report to the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment. In this regard, it is most important that the Ombudsman did not detect cases of torture in 2020, but pointed out some problems which the Government is aware of, but cannot be addressed overnight. I would just like to say that the Government will continue to seek to raise standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the future, so I am optimistic that we will also be witnessing next year many positive stories and many of the Ombudsman's recommendations that have been implemented. On this occasion, however, I also thank the Ombudsman for the efforts he and his colleagues are making in carrying out their tasks and, of course, in preparing recommendations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have carefully examined the 26th report of the Ombudsman, which we express our support for. The old story is unfulfilled recommendations, which are drawn like the yoke of a snake, and 128 have been resubmitted. As it is understood, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the first to be irresponsible, which we regret. Immediately after him the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space and Centres for Social Work. The report is marked by an epidemic and a significant increase in the number of cases. In 2020, the Ombudsman addressed 33% more cases. In Levica we see, as particularly acute, holiday jobs. Last year, the Ombudsman recommended to the Ministry of Labour that the law should define the penalties and prohibit the criminal relations, and this time he repeated the same thing. The problem is also underpayment. Thus, for example, 23% of cultural workers earn less than 500 euros a month and since the outbreak, 56% of cultural workers have been further reduced in income. A third of the self-employed in culture lived below the poverty line before the epidemic. The problem is poverty, social exclusion and generation inequality. The next pressing problem is the STA, which does not receive public service compensation last year and this year, although this is provided by law. The constitutional right of the public to information, and thus the protection of human rights, has been gravely violated. At the same time, the public service RTV also jumps for the lead when the ruling party jumps into the STA. Freedom of assembly and association was limited, where government measures restricted people's rights and freedom of expression. These are the key building blocks of democratic society. The Ombudsman points out that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia does not overcome effective protection in relation to the prohibition provided for in Article 63 of the Constitution, namely the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance and the promotion of violence and war. The report addresses the problems of distance learning. We warn them all the time in Levica, because it has devastating consequences especially for young students who, not only do not know how to learn themselves, do not have adequate equipment, are not sufficiently computer-written and do not understand the consequences of non-schooling, but are also food, fresh air movement and protection entirely dependent on adults. Pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution, the State creates opportunities for education. It seems important to us that the Ombudsman's recommendation to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is to introduce family assistance in families that care for children with special needs under the age of 18 with the aim of reducing institutionalisation. However, we do not support the Ombudsman's recommendation to consider whether the provision of a child's allowance as a subsistence allowance, parental education and education should be subject to the obligation of a child's actual primary education. We believe that the child’s allowance belongs to all children equally regardless of the status of their parents. Family violence is also on the rise. In the first wave of the epidemic, police recorded an 11% increase in the number of perpetrators of violence against women. From January to November 2020, the police dealt with over a thousand 300 crimes of domestic violence. In Levika we are further reminded of the problem of femicide, which is intimate partner killings, which are the most common cause of the violent death of women around the world, including in Slovenia. The Ombudsman notes the non-compliance of the existing definition of the crime of rape and sexual violence with the Istanbul Convention, since the offences of rape and sexual violence under articles 170 and 171 of the Penal Code are based on the model of coercion, notes the need to redefinition a crime of rape based on the absence of consent. The Left already warns that the legal model “Only I means I” must be enforced. We will support the report in the Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina, distinguished secretaries of state and representatives of the Ministry, the esteemed assembly! Last year, the Office of the Ombudsman celebrated its 25th anniversary. This year's 26th report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is the best indication that the Republic of Slovenia has been very obedient to citizens and citizens since 1995, their complaints and human sufferings. We are aware that progress in the elimination of injustices could be faster, but we welcome an improvement every year. Since we personally failed to congratulate you on your very well-prepared report last year on your silver anniversary, we recognize that transparency and expertise are not reduced this year. Therefore, at this year's presentation of the report on behalf of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we sincerely thank you. The mission of the Ombudsman is to protect the dignity of every human being in the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore the task of the Office to exercise control over the conduct of all branches of power in our country and of any interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals. In 2020, the Office of the Ombudsman had a performance indicator of 6 000 852 cases, representing a 33% increase in last year. You have recorded 3 000 52 interviews with callers who have not yet tabled an initiative and 28 discussions in the course of their operations outside the office’s headquarters, and no further consideration was required of the Ombudsman in these 28 cases. The Office opened 3 000 217 new initiatives and 553 initiatives were carried over from the previous year, in 2019. Of the total 3 000 770 initiatives taken by the Ombudsman in 2020, 3 000 302 initiatives have been resolved by 31 December 2020 and 87.7% of all initiatives are very pleased with this percentage. 440 and 11.6% of initiatives have been reactivated and only 28 initiatives and 0.7% have been reactivated, which is a very positive indicator that the competent authorities to which the initiatives are addressed seriously approach the resolution and resolution of the findings found in the Office of the Ombudsman. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we welcome the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the same time, at the inconceivable dimension of the continued invisible enemy covida-19, we seek to implement the Ombudsman's proposed recommendations as soon as possible. We are proud of the work of Minister Janez Cigler King, who with his team solves the problem of the elderly in the Republic of Slovenia. The last home for the elderly was built in Slovenia in 2008 when the competent department was headed by a minister from Nova Slovenije. With hard work in this government, Christian Democrats will take care of the new homes of the elderly, which will begin to build very soon. Slovenia looks forward to the results of a call worth €93 million, which will solve many of the local communities' demands for setting up the most vulnerable groups of people in their homes for older citizens. We are not afraid of the challenges, so in New Slovenia we still support the transition from institutional to community services, where the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has provided sufficient resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to provide daily forms of protection for persons over 65 years of age. As a society, we must strive for the independent life of the elderly with the support of local and local communities. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased with the active work of Minister Janez Cigler King and the key actions that the Ministry has prepared and forwarded to the National Assembly for confirmation. All the measures sought to eliminate and mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and, above all, fought to alleviate the social distress of the population and help the economy. Christian Democrats advocate freedom of expression, which has a special place in the report. We agree with the claim that it is our right to express our opinion, but at the same time our duty to express it in a dignified manner. We are very concerned that the ethics of the public word is right here in the temple of democracy and, as a result, on a well-organised street and, consequently, in the media, has lost its meaning. We will closely follow the Ombudsman's further recommendations on the establishment of sanctions for the media allowing such a speech to be published. The report stressed that we are not only bound by existing rules in the area of freedom of speech, but also by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In New Slovenia we agree with the thesis that both freedom of speech and the prohibition of hostility must be protected. In New Slovenia, we are concerned that in the field of freedom of conscience and religious community, the Ombudsman notes that there is still controversy in blessing public schools. The ritual, which is of a symbolic nature rooted in the very existence of the European Union, should also become an expression of affection in Slovenia. We are pleased that the Ombudsman welcomes the entry into force of the Family Code and the enforcement of the Law on Unfair Procedure. We are aware that different bodies and institutions in child care need to cooperate and become more integrated. For this reason, Christian Democrats want more cross-cutting cooperation in this area, and thus a faster full protection of the rights of children for every child in distress. We also welcome this year's report, which is designed and designed in a slightly fresher way, and especially in this form, faster-looking material is available to the reader. We always support the decision for a shorter and longer electronic version, because you are also actively concerned with protecting and maintaining the environment. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are pleased that the fifth Ombudsman is a special teacher and a human competence and rich work experience. The office you run, and in particular you are always prepared to engage in dialogue with political parties in the National Assembly. Finally, the Group is pleased that the Ombudsman notes that the standard of human rights in Slovenia is high, but we are all aware that there is always room for improvement. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia should still not be negotiated, so we will unanimously support the report. I wish you a successful job and the speedy resolution of the injustices found in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, especially the Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, fellow Members! Each annual report of the Ombudsman provides us with insight into the social situation and cases that affect human rights and fundamental freedoms. As we have heard, the annual report of the Ombudsman for 2020 also addressed several interested working bodies. Information on unfulfilled and new recommendations is very eloquent. As the Ombudsman himself mentioned, there have been 156 current and unfulfilled or partially implemented recommendations over the past 10 years. In addition, 128 new ones were added in 2020. We join the concerns expressed by the Ombudsman regarding the acquisition of information from the competent institutions. In 2020, the Ombudsman addressed some less than a thousand different inquiries to the Government and the Ministry. In such a flood of questions and requests for certain information, we can only imagine how difficult it is for citizens to respond if the Ombudsman is already faced with delays in obtaining information. There have been many new or pending cases already due to the covida-19 epidemic and related measures. In the past year, more cases have been dealt with than in previous years. The most frequently identified violations were in relation to equality before the law, the principle of good governance, rights from the social state and rights to personal dignity and security. It must also be realized that covid-19 was not only a problem of Slovenia and these governments, but of all countries around the world. Each country has faced the epidemic in its own way, with a view to controlling it and incarcerating it. One of the more important measures in the field of education and education, followed by the Ombudsman's recommendation, was adopted last year by the Act on the Treatment of Children and Youth with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education. The Ombudsman’s recommendation on Roma issues has also been implemented in such a way as to place in specific regulations the content that introduces the Roma assistant from kindergarten onwards. In addition to these two measures, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport carried out an analysis of the accessibility of secondary and primary schools for disabled persons. The Recovery and Resistance Plan also envisages the implementation of investment projects with a view to ensuring adequate spatial conditions for persons with disabilities. This is the implementation of the 2019 Ombudsman's Recommendation. The positive movements that followed the Ombudsman’s recommendations are much more. Let me touch some others who belong to the Ministry of Justice. These are: the establishment of an online auction in the enforcement process, reflecting the Ombudsman's recommendation from 2013; the establishment of new premises of the Institute for the Ending of Prison Ages, for persons who, due to age, illness, disability or other handicaps, need adapted premises, with regard to the implementation of the 2019 Recommendation; and the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Children in Criminal Procedure and their integrated treatment in the Children's House, which implements the 2019 Recommendation of the Ombudsman. As regards the work of the report on the implementation of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Ratification Act, the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, it should be pointed out that the Ombudsman has been exercising it for more than 10 years. Here, too, the Ombudsman’s work in the past year was somewhat hampered by the epidemic, which proved to be in a small number of field visits. Nevertheless, the Ombudsman’s work in this area did not continue. As the Ombudsman himself mentioned, they focused in particular on the safety of participants in the proceedings. The Ombudsman made 329 recommendations in this area. As two years ago, the Ombudsman also pointed out in 2020 that he did not identify cases of torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour, and reiterated the recommendation to the competent ministry and the Government to seek appropriate solutions as soon as possible for the unrestrained situation of protected departments of social protection institutions. Under the State Preventive Mechanism, the Ombudsman also addressed the issue of crisis centres for young people and participated in the preparation of the new Mental Health Act at the Ministry of Health. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have highlighted only some of the key points contained in both the documents under consideration, namely the Ombudsman's annual report and the State Preventive Mechanism, and we support the recommendations contained in both of the Ombudsman's 2020 reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable Ombudsman with a team and respected representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues! Human rights and fundamental freedoms are enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2020, an additional year of trials, challenges and questions reached our rights and freedoms. The covida-19 epidemic has shaken well the constant perceptions of our space in society. Many restrictive measures have raised questions about how free we are at all. As the Ombudsman has pointed out, most human rights are not absolute and can be restricted, of course under certain conditions. However, it is not possible to ignore the fact that many individuals have suffered personal harm as a result of the measures. Let us not forget that in nursing homes many elderly people have died because of the effects of the Coronavirus alone and without contact with their loved ones. Uncertainty and personal distress no doubt caused negative consequences to the general public, and the Ombudsman also dealt with as many as a third of the cases as he did last year. We have given special attention to the social affairs and protection of the elderly in the Desus Group. We can still read about the lack of staff in nursing homes, which, in addition to the existing outdated and insufficient staff standards, encourages the deterioration of the situation in nursing homes. Of course, the weakening of the long-term care system means the additional critical mass of our society, which is plagued by demographically extremely poor imagery, and the decades-old ignorance of the issues of the older generation area, as regards safe, dignified and independent age, is not so easy to fix. We are pleased that the first reading of the law on long-term care will be done at this meeting, when the report of the Ombudsman is also being considered. Discrimination against older people, disabled people and other vulnerable groups is still very common in all areas, and the Ombudsman paid particular attention to them in 2020. The lack of access to basic services and the poverty facing the elderly are the tragic reality of our country, which we must address as soon as possible. In the Desus Group, we therefore stress that in the 21st century, no elderly citizen of our community should be hungry and frozen. Equal health treatment must also be given to all the elderly. It seems inappropriate to us that we are still negotiating minimum pension increases in view of rising prices of goods and energy. Retirement should provide the elderly with safe and dignified age. The Ombudsman also presented a report on the work of the State preventive mechanism, which, with a field presence, pays particular attention to those institutions where individuals who have been deprived of their liberty or are placed in different protective institutions are placed. Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading acts in our society must not have room. Last but not least, such events do not take place far from us, as evidenced by the actions of our southern neighbor with migrants on the external border. In the Desus Group, we strongly condemn such acts. As in previous years, the work and work of the guardian and his team are also seen this year. The report can read the importance of the Ombudsman's institution, the Advocate of the principle of equality and the Information Officer in a modern democratic society operating outside the traditional branches of government. It is true that the Ombudsman's recommendations are not legally binding, but their implementation is an indicator of how much society advocates for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Unfortunately, many recommendations are still unheard of and unfulfilled. However, we will also have to pay a lot of attention in the future to the fact that the judgments of the Constitutional Court have not been carried out. Their number has increased, and now there are 18 unexecuted judgments. We sincerely thank the Ombudsman and his team in the Desus Group for their work and welcome all the efforts that our society has made in the direction of good for all. His initiatives and warnings of wrongdoing are what reminds us that we can do even better, so in the Desus Group we hope that you and your team will continue to do your work with such zeal and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Each annual report of the Ombudsman is a cross-section of the social climate and a mirror of society in the realization of fundamental human rights and freedoms. A demanding year is behind us, daily covered with cod reality and facing its consequences. In this annual report, Mr Svetina makes 85 recommendations from all areas of social participation, and 16 recommendations regarding covid-19 disease are particularly relevant. I'm putting two in particular because they're showing the spirit of the time we've been living in over a year and a half. In the first recommendation, the Ombudsman recommends that all authorities take into account and specifically assess aspects of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms when preparing with covido-19 related measures. In the second, it recommends that the Government submit to the National Assembly amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which will clearly give rise to which human rights, to what extent and under what conditions the Government may restrict in the event of an outbreak of an epidemic on the basis of a legal mandate. Until their realization, even if this shift into an indeterminate future, we will probably still be witnessing the government's arrogance and relativisation and the negation of constitutional decisions, convinced that Slovenia is the only European country where the Constitutional Court does not understand well the exercise of the right to health care. We will continue to read the cynical tweets of the Prime Minister of the Government, in which he calls on the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court to declare covid-19 incompatible with the Constitution, because he did not form part of the National Assembly, rather than overcome so much courage and propose a law that would impose compulsory vaccination at least for certain professional groups or residents. The normal authorities would, of course, take such measures by law, not by ruling with decrees. Examples of other countries are found not far from our neighborhood. If the President of the Government would like to boast that he is meeting with European leaders, the President of the French Republic, Mr Macron, could ask for free advice without reservation. No, it's the opposite of that. We will continue to be convinced of our rightful way of beating the Constitution and the judiciary. In view of this, the Ombudsman's conclusion is that this year's annual report shows how important independent state institutions are to the functioning of a democratic state, operating outside and outside the traditional branches of government themselves. The last year and a half is their independence and independence to the test. At the very least, the Ombudsman's erosion of respect for the rule of law and denial of the principle of barriers and balances between the branches of government and independent institutions is of the least concern. Last year, the Ombudsman dealt with some less than 7,000 cases, a third more than a year earlier, and found nearly 500 violations of human rights and other irregularities. Offences of equality before the law and the principles of good governance have been detected far and wide. This requires ministries, government services and other public institutions to respond in a timely and reasoned manner to the proposals and recommendations received. The Ombudsman thus warns that it is necessary to strengthen awareness of the explanatory duty they have, but the premonition that human rights rulers have become far too long ago is no longer a premonition, but a daily reality. It is also a fact that we have all fallen together on a social solidarity and collective responsibility test in relation to governmental will. Directly as a result of this is insufficient grafting and the emergence of anti-vaccine populism. This is probably the most beneficial for those who make this situation possible, but also for legitimate frustrations, cannot be an excuse for rejecting rationality and solidarity, as this not only endangers our health, but also our freedom and the future. That's why it's not just covid-19. We must ask ourselves how, without confidence in science and without solidarity, we will solve all the other social and global challenges that lie ahead. It would be both right and right for the Ombudsman to be identified in today's debate. I would point out two more, which is not directly linked to the epidemic, but it is also important because it dictates where progress is urgently needed in strengthening human rights and equality before the law. A short time ago, the Council of Europe expert group on combating violence against women and the family assessed the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. It has been estimated that we do not have enough specialised services in Slovenia to provide integrated support to victims of sexual violence and that we need to establish crisis referral centres in cases of rape or sexual violence. We devote less political attention and funding to other forms of violence against women, such as mental violence and sexual harassment outside the workplace. The Ministry of Labour must respond appropriately to these findings. The achievement of sexual diversity and the increased representation of women in corporate management and supervisory bodies remains an unfulfilled objective for the time being. Only one fifth of companies in supervisory boards and administrations achieve the target share of sexual diversity. Not only have we not made significant progress, but in the last year in this area we have even gone a long way, and concern is raised by the fact that this is a matter for companies in state solidarity. Not surprisingly, we have a government with a record low representation of female ministers. The recommendations are not sufficient, there is no willingness to change, so the introduction of quotas is inevitable and urgently necessary. We will, of course, support the recommendations of the Ombudsman for 2020 in the Group of Non-Related Members. We commend the Council for its work and wish to see more progress in the coming year, more optimism and, above all, better assessments of the interception and debilitating importance of the social responsibility of all stakeholders involved in the public space.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	All in attendance, all in attendance! Each year we receive a comprehensive, beautifully written report from the Ombudsman. Unfortunately, a large part of this report is drawn with a real picture in Slovenia. Indeed, Covid has marked the last year, but we have had problems with both Roma and Albanians for years. Indeed, recently Roma assistants have been introduced in schools and schools, but what if there are no real results? We estimate that the Ombudsman must really go to the field in those Roma settlements where the problem is visible and heard every day in local media. And don't make an announcement without announcing that he'll see the real situation. My personal opinion is – because I know things at least with us in Krška, Kerin's bush – that there is no progress in learning and raising Roma children. Roma children still walk through shopping malls at the time of instruction. They're still shoplifting, fighting with shopkeepers and security guards, threatening to know what kind of cars they've brought in and the car's gonna be waiting for them at the end. Of course, if they don't bring anything from the store, they're expected by their parents in the parking lot. These children also receive an earring if they do not bring the ordered goods from the store. Respected Ombudsman, too, is the part that should be included in the report, and you only mention good things in the report, while the reality is hidden or covered by those who prepare such reports. Not to be forgotten, there has been an even greater disaster now because you have dedicated money to the municipalities for the development and improvement of Roma problems. As a result, the congregations are under pressure because of the amount to be received by the Roma community in the congregation. The mayors and the councils of the congregation cannot agree on what this money will be for. We came to the point I was talking about, respected colleagues and colleagues, at the confirmation of funds for the Roma – that mayors and municipal councils will have great problems especially in those municipalities where the mayors do not want to have a Roma councillor. All those congregations that have Roma communities should also have a Romani saint. This amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, has been rejected. Let's say a few more words about the Albanians. There are more and more in the larger cities. Because they do not want to adapt to our culture and customs, they create their ghettos, and within these they form mafias that attack and intimidate our children, our old people, and not least women. And because of their fear of the police, they don't report these events and neither do they report them to the Guardian. And what do we do? We're looking for teachers, educators, professors who speak Albanian, doctors who speak Albanian. Did you know that there's also one medical card that gets the whole family to see a doctor and threatens to see what happens to him? It is not surprising that if Secretary of State Franc Kangler tells us that we, too, in Austria, in Germany and where we do not need to know their language, because it is full of those who speak Serbian! That's what he told me on the board. And look, instead of setting clear boundaries, asking them to learn the Slovenian language and accept our culture, we give them citizenship and social transfers as current tape. Men from Albania come to Slovenia for work permits. When we give them a work permit, they go to work abroad. And where are they going? In Austria and Germany and in Slovenia, children, families, and these children and families naturally lean on social transfers. That how much you look through their fingers at school, I don't even lose words. In schools, they don't understand material and what teachers, educators and teachers say, so they have to deal with it more, and with this child they steal the right to normal education. However, the Ombudsman does not hope to do so, nor does he have to write it down in the report. The report is only a dead letter on paper, but if it is believed in the report, the ministries read the recommendations and try to improve their work precisely because of what they wrote. Nevertheless, we supported the Deputy Ombudsman on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We really hope that changes will be made for the benefit of the Slovenian people, and we also hope that in future reports they will be really concrete, with content, not only such beautiful things written inside so that children can read a bedtime story so that they can sleep more easily and more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us the 26th regular report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. This report is very important for all of us. Some individuals and organizations of our government have made it clear that they are all in violation of human rights. Over the past year, we've been receiving a lot of threats, verbal attacks, even physical attacks that were built on false information. Today, we have before us the report of the Ombudsman. The report covers comprehensively and comprehensively all aspects of human rights that we, as a country, must protect, guarantee and establish. Slovenia is a signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights and is also part of the Treaty of Lisbon, by which we acceded to the European Union, of the commitment to respect for human rights. I will present to you the key findings of the Ombudsman for last year. The minimum wage increased from 886.63 euros in 2020 to 940.58 euros and the minimum wage no longer includes allowances, including a work-time allowance, part of the salary for performance and payment for business performance. From January 2021, the minimum wage shall be calculated using a formula on the basis of which the minimum full-time remuneration will have to exceed the calculated minimum cost of living by 20 %. No government has made such changes so far. The Ombudsman has identified this improvement as crucial. The decent life of every citizen of Slovenia is extremely important for the government of Janez Janša. In 2020, Slovenia reached new milestones in respect of respect for and protection of human rights for each individual and individual. Among others, the first status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship has been granted in history, which is a historical example of the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. We have also successfully reported Slovenians and their relatives from countries where human rights have not been guaranteed and their lives there have been threatened. The covida epidemic of Slovenia has not spared us, so we have also encountered problems that have been brought about by the transition of work and distance learning. The Italian and Hungarian minorities have thus encountered a problem that has not yet been translated immediately into their languages, which are the official language in parts of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia detected this and responded quickly to allow access to information in the official languages to all the inhabitants of Slovenia. As you know, for us, for the SDS, the government of Janez Janša is very important. We treat minorities in Slovenia with respect and great responsibility, and we advocate that Slovenians, in place and in the world of other countries, treat them in the same way. Therefore, in the last year, we have strengthened ties, improved communication, and worked hard to ensure everyone’s equal human rights. Let us not forget that it was last year that we, with many anti-Korona packages, which have been highly socialised, ensured a decent continuation of life to all those who have been in the crisis because of the epidemic. The Ombudsman also notes that the measures cover all groups, from students, pensioners, employees, disabled persons, farmers, independent entrepreneurs to small and micro enterprises and large enterprises. We have fulfilled the promises we made to the Slovenes and the Slovenes. We took care of everything. We didn't let anyone down. Although we were affected in many areas, we were able to mitigate many consequences. Let me point out that this has succeeded despite the constant opposition and the media, despite the scoffing for non-school masks, to disregard measures and so on. The patient doesn't have a choice, but we have a choice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ensured that everyone can choose to protect their health so that everyone can protect their lives. Unfortunately, all the options offered were not enough, so today we are also facing the rise of the sick and the sad news, such as that of young people fighting in intensive care for life. In view of the fact that justice must be our first priority in these times, I would like to point out that the Government has always put it first by adopting measures and has not restricted people. Many, however, use this to mobilise their electorate. I'm not going to avoid the one that's the hottest right now, these are the protests. As the Ombudsman has also found, all protests, including those undeclared, have been allowed. At the protests, the police always carried out only urgent work and never interfered with the rights of the protestors. In some cases, I think the police have done too little. Let me expose the protestor and self-proclaimed artist Zlatko to the cameraman Nova24. Such acts of physical violence should be inadmissible and properly punished. Finally, let me mention something that the Ombudsman has not written down in his record, but it is extremely important. Independent international NGO Freedom House found that freedom in Slovenia under the government of Janez Janša was further strengthened. The government under the leadership of Janez Janša began its mandate on 13 March 2020 and the organisation noted that Slovenia was among the most free countries in the world this year. For 2020, Slovenia reached 95 points in its annual report on the level of freedom and 94 points in the year before Slovenia was led by the government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc. It is true that it is only one point more, but it is a point more under the government, which many are avowed by the repression and oppression of human rights. More than one point in the independent report, which covers all countries of the world, clearly shows that freedom in Slovenia under our government is being strengthened and human rights associated with it are being strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are considering the report of the Ombudsman, and I would like to ask those in the Chamber who have decided to accompany the meeting to show this also your position on this, so that you do not disturb those who are accidentally behind the speaker. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Dear Guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In 2020, the Ombudsman dealt with a third of more cases than the previous year and found a significant number of violations of rights and other irregularities. This was mostly due to violations of equality before the law, the principle of good governance, the protection of privacy rights and personal rights, the rule of law and the social state, the right to personal dignity and security. The most violations were identified by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, followed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Interior and social work centres and others. The fundamental principles of the rule of law are often violated in Slovenia. This is particularly evident by the government of John Janša, who constantly violates several articles of the Constitution and laws. Laws in this government are passed too quickly without public participation. It is alarming that as many as 156 previous recommendations have not been implemented or are only partially implemented. In 2020, the Ombudsman made 128 new recommendations, which he expects will be implemented. The recommendations are not legally binding, but their implementation is an indication of the extent to which society advocates for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In his report, the Ombudsman highlighted vulnerable groups and drew attention to the major differences in the field of child education. The Ombudsman pointed out that the weakest should be taken care of during distance training. In LMŠ, we have been actively calling on the government of Janez Janša throughout the epidemic to take measures that are primarily aimed at helping all those most affected by the current crisis. We have also called for the provision of a warm meal for students who, due to measures to combat the spread of the new coronavirus, have been trained remotely. We also drew attention to the growing pressures of students, employees and, above all, students with learning problems and with special needs during distance learning. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the Ombudsman's report, as the report is extremely important and reflects the spirit of society, and the role of the Ombudsman is particularly important. The Ombudsman is the one who, in addition to other authorities, detects and prevents human rights violations and other irregularities and removes their consequences, for which we sincerely thank him in the LMŠ. In view of the Ombudsman's findings, we believe that the current government is not paying enough attention and respect for this institution because it ignores the report and the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Guardian, colleagues and colleagues! The year 2020 was the epidemic. We found ourselves in times when, for the first time since World War II, for the protection of human life and health, such serious interferences took place in our fundamental human rights and freedoms. Justices that have not been granted from heaven, but have been acquired by us in the course of history. Fundamental human rights, such as the right to freedom of movement, the right to education, the right to assembly and association, were limited to overnight, quickly. Thus, in 2020, the Ombudsman received as much as a third of the initiatives over the past years, and in some 500 initiatives, he detected a violation of human rights or fundamental freedoms. At various ministries, the Ombudsman sent almost 900 different letters in connection with restrictive measures and was disappointed with the lack of response, even the ignorance of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Most often, however, there have been violations in the area of equality before the law, the principles of good governance, the protection of privacy rights and personal rights, the rule of law and the social state, the right to personal dignity, the right to security. The most violations, as many as 66, were found at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. However, the representatives of the Ministry did not take the time to come to the competent Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities where the Ombudsman actually presented his report. Of course, that's unacceptable. This government has not sought to provide at least a legal basis for limiting fundamental human rights and freedoms. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the regulation of human rights authorises solely the legislator, and this is the National Assembly, this is not the Government, which is the executive branch of the government. Throughout the epidemic, the government has ruled by decrees and in fact is still doing so, regardless of the fact that we have repeatedly warned opposition parties and many lawyers that it is unacceptable and unconstitutional to derogate the National Assembly and to interfere with human rights and freedoms with decisions, instead of having a proper debate in the National Assembly and adopting an appropriate legal basis. In the past year, it has been clear how fragile the rights acquired can be, how quickly a slip from a democratic country that respects the principle of rule of law can take place in an arbitrary country which, by means of sub-laws, is extremely restrictive and interferes with human rights and freedoms, irrespective of the constitutionally guaranteed legal standards. In taking measures to contain the epidemic, the Government has often violated the principles also cited by the Ombudsman, so that measures should be proportionate, non-discriminatory, necessary to achieve the objective, professionally justified, legal, transparent, by appropriate procedure, time-limited and thus legitimate. The last example of taking such measures is the rules relating to the fulfilment of PCT conditions, which is a substantively empty Law on Infectious Diseases, which does not provide an adequate legal basis for the introduction of such measures, and also the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which established that the 104th Article of the PKP Intervention Law, which authorises the Minister of Education to order the implementation of distance learning, is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, measures taken contrary to the principles applicable to the rule of law. With regard to the recent protests in Ljubljana and the functioning of the police, the findings of the Commission's authorised group for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which carried out surveillance at the General Police Administration, are also of concern. The findings have shown that the policy is to be present in two operational headquarters and the Commission has already proposed to the Ombudsman to initiate the procedure on its own initiative and to determine, in accordance with its competences, the coherence and appropriateness of the operation of the MNZ, the GPU and the police, in particular with regard to their work and procedures for the protection of public order and peace in relation to recent protests. This is what we expect from the Social Democrats to be done. If we go back to the Guardian's report. The outstanding recommendations from 2012 to 2019 were around 300 and 128 new recommendations were made by the Ombudsman in 2020. The Ombudsman notes that in certain groups of people, the epidemic has only deepened the problems of the protection and realization of human rights, which have in fact been dragging on for many years and in which the country has not done enough. These are particularly vulnerable groups of people, such as the elderly, persons with mental disabilities and homeless people. Throughout the epidemic, we have also alerted the Social Democrats to a particularly vulnerable group of people, these are children. Unfortunately, the epidemic has affected children from socially weak and disorderly families and children with special needs. School closures took an absolute long time. There was no plan and no alternative. The information was coming at the last minute, and many times it changed and caused confusion among people. Minister Simona Kustec was clearly not in favour of this task. How many children at home didn't even have the basic conditions for education? The Ombudsman stressed that in Slovenia more than 100 families do not have access to the internet and the computer, nor does the printer and paper. The Constitutional Court also made it clear in the last decision that for children with special needs, the area of education and education is very important in terms of providing comprehensive care for them and creating conditions for their optimal and full development, and we have closed the door and left them without assistance. Unacceptable. Minister Kustec should have left a long time ago. For many years, the Ombudsman has also pointed out some of the irregularities faced by children with special needs and their parents, such as the issue of the level of partial payment for lost income received by one parent or another person when leaving the labour market or starting to work shorter hours than full-time due to the care and protection of the child with severe mental impairment, severe mobility or illness from the list of serious diseases. Taking care of a child with special needs is a work that lasts 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and the amount of payment often does not cover the basic needs of life, much more. It would also be necessary and as soon as possible to find systemic solutions for children with autism. While the country is looking too slowly for systemic solutions, many children with different autistic spectrum disorders grow up. Unfortunately, the missed opportunities to improve the quality of their lives and their inclusion in society cannot be compensated. More and more children and adolescents are also facing mental health problems, but we have long waiting types, lack of psychiatrists, pedopsychiatrists, clinical psychologists. Slovenia has neglected the field of mental health for many years. In addition to the lack of specialists, we are plagued by the legal irregularity of systemic funding of clinical psychology specialisations, the legal irregularity of the field of psychotherapy, the unacceptable long waiting periods for first examinations, poor access to psychological and psychotherapeutic assistance and so on. Unfortunately, today access to health services has become a privilege for only certain groups. Our health services are collapsing. This calls for a comprehensive overhaul, a reform of the health system. Nurses should be properly paid. Health care must be public and accessible to everyone. We must no longer allow ourselves to be helped or given the right time when we need it. Less diagnostics do not mean that we are healthier. Diseases remain, for example, the problem is that there is more and more undetected or late detection of cancer. The problems that motivate the Ombudsman have been the same for years. We are talking about dissatisfaction with health care, waiting types, the relationship of health personnel, poor organization in institutions and so on. Health care is materially nourished, which has a strong impact on accessibility to health services. Unfortunately, today health care does not allow for timely health care for a significant number of citizens. More and more energy has been devoted in the last two years only to covid, but the other diseases have not disappeared. They're staying. 117 thousand people are waiting in line for diagnostics, surgery or surgery. A year and a half waiting for an rheumatological examination, more than half a year for a first examination with a cardiologist, one year for hip surgery and two years for spinal surgery. At least €150 million per year would be needed to eliminate unacceptable long waiting periods, as well as additional staff, to improve hospital management. Social Democrats are asking the Minister of Health where health reform is. In 2020, the Ombudsman warned that the elderly need measures to live a decent life now. In caring for the elderly, it is necessary to arrange long - term care, to ensure that the number of those living in poverty is reduced, even though they have given society the bulk of their youth efforts. There is an urgent need to invest in the public health system, as it is only by doing so that everyone can have access to health services regardless of their income. By 2025, almost 70 000 people were entitled to long-term care in Slovenia, which in 2025 alone would require 744 million euros. Although we have received a long-term care law after so many years at the table, unfortunately there are a lot of bad things in it that are being pointed out by many organizations that are being touched by the law. The law leaves a number of open questions regarding the staffing conditions, minimum spatial, technical, safety and other standards for the performance of long-term care. The price of standard accommodation is also unknown. Unfortunately, the proposal also does not provide a clear answer on the financing of long-term care. A step forward towards deinstitutionalisation will need to be taken. It is unacceptable that many are institutionalized in a variety of institutions, even though they could live with dignity in their home environment. The Ombudsman points out that older people need to be involved in deciding on their rights and lifestyles and not patronizing them under the cover of reduced psychophysical abilities or other obstacles. They should be able to decide for themselves to what extent they need protection and care that this still means quality of life for them. In view of the lack of capacity in homes for older, too expensive services, as a result of their unequal accessibility to all those in need, the Ombudsman often finds that the principle of the social state is being violated. The epidemic has clearly shown how important it is that we have universal basic goods and services, which are the first step towards a society of equal baselines. It is a matter of providing basic social security for all people with access to the free public services provided by public institutions. It is the right to housing, to health care, to education and education, to public transport, to legal protection which must be provided in basic form to all, not only the privileged, not only those who can afford it. We will, of course, continue to touch further on other areas and issues with colleagues, so I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his report in particular here. We will, of course, support the proposal for a recommendation, but we call on all institutions, particularly the Government and ministers, to follow the recommendations and to be up-to-date and responsive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way on the reports and on the proposal for a recommendation. Marko Koprivc has the word, followed by Iva Dimic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Respectable Ombudsman, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, respected colleague and fellow Members! As has already been said in the opening presentations, we are in very difficult times, in times of epidemics and at times, when in some way the Government, by incorrect measures, is further deepening this state of emergency in society. It is logical that, on this basis, the number of initiatives you have received has also increased. One third more initiatives than in previous years or one year earlier. In 2020, the Ombudsman made a total of 128 new recommendations. Most of the violations in the area of equality before the law, the principle of good governance, the protection of privacy rights and personal rights, the rule of law and the social state, the right to personal dignity and security have been identified. The report also shows how many times the Ombudsman had to intervene and alert the competent ministries to the importance of respect for human rights and freedoms, either on the basis of the proposals of the initiators or on his own discretion. In 2020, the Ombudsman sent 43 letters only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for which we thank you, the Ombudsman, of course. It is worrying, however, that 11 Ombudsman’s recommendations and 14 more from previous years have been rejected, of which eight out of 11 recommendations rejected relate to the rights of persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. That's a really worrying piece of data. The consequences of the health crisis are also reflected in the epidemic of pain due to covid-19 disease, loss of loved ones, lack of social contacts, isolation, loss of employment or service overload, and the pressures associated with distance schooling and family life. This government has caused the decommissioning of the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, because it rules unilaterally, by decrees and does not respect the decisions of the courts. Unfortunately, the Government is revitalising the law, the legislative procedure, the adoption of decrees and the substantively empty laws, which do not provide an adequate legal basis for the measures taken by the Government. Political interference with independent institutions and bodies, attacks on journalists, the prosecution, the police, the judiciary. Respected and respected, human rights restrictions must be established by law and the power of the executive branch of authority must be sufficiently precise and specific in law. The epidemic has further cut off such vulnerable individuals. Allow me to speak a few words about education, because it has been a particularly problematic long-term closure of schools throughout Slovenia. We sociodemocrats have been alerted throughout the epidemic that schools are the first to open and close the last ones and that they have been completely closed in Slovenia for too long. Unfortunately, the government took a different path and opened up everything else first. It seemed like schools for this government were unfortunately of a lateral importance. That Minister Kustec was burned on the line, we warned the Social Democrats, and therefore, together with the democratic opposition, we have already filed a second interpretation against this minister. That Slovenia does not have a Minister of Education, we have also spoken, and we are still in this position today. The minister would be expected to be the first child advocate, and the minister did not protect the interests of the children. Despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Minister did not protect the rights of children with special needs. Unfortunately, the minister did not even protect the interest of athletes. Increasing numbers of parents, teachers, and experts reported a severe decline in motivation in schoolchildren and the mental distress of children due to distance learning. Statistics show that the number of hospitalizations due to suicide attempts at a paediatric clinic increased by up to 30% last year. There is also a significant increase in eating disorders in the youngest, a lot of emotional distress, apathy, and anxiety. There is increasing online violence, and children from vulnerable groups are particularly affected, as we have also pointed out. Education should be given priority by this government over everyone else. The government didn't even give an alternative. She didn't propose a combined system, let's say that the learning would be done partly on a remote, partially live basis. She simply took the easiest path, closed all schools and left schools closed much longer than shops, service activities and so on. The distance school is different for every child, of course. The Slovenian education system is based on the principle of equality and justice, and distance education is based mainly on the different situations and environment in which children live, these fundamental principles are broken. Such a system is extremely unfair to those children living in poor social conditions. Counsellors note that for some children school was the only healthy environment. Such harmful effects are especially harmful for those in vulnerable groups. The information contained in the Ombudsman’s report is also of concern. In contact with children, conflicts between parents have only deepened because of this situation, children have stayed at home for longer periods or the entire time of the epidemic only with one of the parents, says they have not been able to have contact with both parents in the case of separate families. Sadly, all of this has caused great and irreparable harm to children. Maybe I'll touch the area of protest. As we know, this government has restricted the gathering, which is, of course, incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitution, in the first paragraph of Article 42, guarantees the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies. A general and advance ban on protests is necessary in a democratic society only if there is a real danger that protests will have consequences for protected legal goods that cannot be prevented by others, less stringent measures. Of course, there was no such situation in Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has also pointed out this, and here the Government has clearly violated the Constitution. Not to mention the violence of the police that has taken place against the protestors, the absolute excessive use of force, the pouring of tear gas across the board. These are obvious and evident violations of human rights, and I therefore call on you, Sir, to study this event in recent protests as an independent institution. This government has definitely brought Slovenia into the deepest social crisis after independence, and instead of solving people's problems, it has deliberately created new and new conflicts. At the end of the day, however, I would like to point out a warning by Mr Chernigo, who spoke of the senselessness of the Ombudsman's finding that the blessing of school premises is unconstitutional. Dear colleague Montenegro, let me tell you that Article 7 of the Constitution clearly distinguishes religious communities from the State. The Slovenian school is public and, of course, independent, and it is right that it is separate from the Roman Catholic Church and from all other religious communities in Slovenia, which are equal. It is more than obvious that the Government, in addition to all the bad things it is doing, is also carrying out a very intense recalculation and clearance of Slovenian society, which is absolutely harmful, inappropriate and unconstitutional. Dear Guardian, thank you very much for the report, which is very quality. I call on you to remind the Government of all the aspects it carries out in the future, in particular of all the unconstitutionalities in the functioning of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Comrade Koprivc, I would like to remind you that we have a report before us for 2020 and not for 2021. You missed the debate practically in two-thirds. Secondly, Mr Chernigoj presented the position of the Group rather than a personal opinion. By recommending that you are somewhat more consistent in the debates and that you stick to the topic, content and what is actually in the reports. Not some who are not yet in this report. Let's do it one step at a time, mag. Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President, most of the things I have pointed out concern both 2020 and 2021. I talked most of the time about distance learning, which took place both in 2020 and in 2021. Unfortunately, all other human rights violations and constitutions took place both in 2020 and in 2021, and the Ombudsman points to most things in the report. So please do not abuse the Vice-President's seat to comment on the debates of Members and Members. Most of the things were cited in the report, but of course the Member has the right to interpret matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Comrade Koprivc, please. Please. It wasn't like that, it's not true.As far as the use of tear gas is concerned, it doesn't apply in anything for 2020. What was happening with the attack on police officers and so on is not in 2020. Be consistent in this debate and use the things that are in the report, not the things that are in the report. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. November 2020 was the first use of police violence against protestors, and please do not deceive. And I can speak more broadly in the debate and also point out other things. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	You don't have a word. When the chairman speaks, be respectful. If my claim is not true, then open the 2020 report and read where it says it. Flapping is not the way the National Assembly works. We continue the debate. Iva Dimic has the floor and only Bevk will get the word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Guardian and his deputies! 26. We also considered the regular report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 as an interested body on the Education Committee. Once again, I can confirm the allegations and deceptions that Slovenian schools have been closed for the longest time, only to read once again what we said on the education committee itself as an interested working body. The duration of the closure of school institutions in the days is: Denmark 121, Slovenia 154, Ireland 163, Czech Republic 166, Poland 171, Hungary 180, Slovakia 181. And that goes on, we have Romania, Germany, over 200, and Canada 336 days closed school space. So Slovenia had less Denmark than these countries on its tail, the last, than it had only 121 days. I'm gonna touch the speech about how things work. I must say that it saddens me, too, that yesterday, due to protests, the High School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Vega's school had to cancel the afternoon for protests that were so loud. But I didn't mean to say that. I would like to say that today it has been pointed out that the most matters have been identified at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Indeed, it is one of the largest ministries, covering such violence against women, adolescents, their problems, working as older ones, for which 2020 has been a really difficult year due to the covida epidemic. In 2020, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities co-financed 35 programmes aimed at preventing violence. Among all the programmes for the prevention of violence were 21 accommodation programmes, which included eight mother homes with a capacity of about 180 beds and 13 safe houses with a capacity of around 270 beds. In addition, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities financed 12 other advisers, strengthened the SOS phones, strengthened all lines that enable conversation, including one programme for training social skills for perpetrators of violence, one programme aimed at preventing violence against older people and one programme for telephone counselling. In 2020, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities acquired a total of EUR 3 million 342 000 550. So, the ministry knew what the situation was, they were aware of what a coworker was, and they responded appropriately with regard to violence against women and the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk. Get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! First, let me tell you, my friend had a mag. Marko Koprivc's debate, which was entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and the findings of the President-in-Office of Tank do not hold. Now to the agenda. We have before us the 26th regular report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, almost fully marked by the Coronavirus epidemic. As we know, the institution of the Ombudsman was introduced in Article 159 by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which entered into force at the end of 1991, which states that in order to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to national authorities, local self-government authorities and holders of public powers, the Ombudsman or citizens shall be appointed by law. On 23 December this year we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the adoption and proclamation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the 30th anniversary of the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman. The Law on the Ombudsman was then passed in 1993 and the first report of the Ombudsman in the independent Republic of Slovenia was received for 1995, prepared by Ivan Bizjak, First Ombudsman. I have been monitoring the work and reports of the Ombudsman since the beginning, and I do not know if there is any other public institution in the Republic of Slovenia that prepares such thorough reports of its work annually as the Ombudsman does. And then, of course, these recommendations, which are made, finally recommends to the Government, the ministries and other institutions. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mr Peter Svetina, and your colleagues and colleagues for their work during this period. Let me say, if, of course, I am not deceived by the fact that the first report of the Ombudsman for 1995 was addressed only by the Commission for petitions of the National Assembly, and at the plenary session of the Assembly, only one representative of the Government sat with the modest participation of Members, I think it was the secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Today, in the National Assembly, the Ombudsman's report deals with virtually all working bodies in the National Assembly and also in plenary sessions focuses on this report more closely than in the past. From that point of view, I am pleased. Now I would like to go on one specific issue in connection with the Coronavirus epidemic and education. The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2020 in the Social Activity chapter states: "At a time when distance education was carried out in Slovenia due to the coronavirus, we have warned the Ombudsman that all students do not have the same learning opportunities. In general, we have also observed that the measures envisaged to limit the spread of coronary disease may have a major impact on socially excluded vulnerable groups." The Ombudsman also noted that distance learning was largely based on access to information technology and provided for the active role of parents who had thus taken on the role of teachers to a large extent. Furthermore, the Ombudsman reports that there were hundreds of families in Slovenia, I repeat, hundreds of families who did not have access to the Internet, the computer or the printer, and even the paper. Printing educational content was also a very big problem for such families. At the Committee on Education itself, and science and sport, State Secretary Damir Orhovec said that, according to a November 2020 survey, there were not about 5,000 students who had access to the Internet, much more so than the Ombudsman's report. I would ask you, Mr. Guardian, how do you estimate whether this is large or small? It seems relatively large to me, so I would ask for this comment, and I hope that it will not happen again, that it will be necessary for students to have a mass education at a distance. However, it is necessary to provide adequate technological support for learning, as very many students and families in Slovenia do not have access to the internet, the computer and also the printer. This is all the more current today, as we are witnessing the rise of coronary disease or epidemics and the intrusion of the virus into schools, as many school departments are now re-schooling in the distance. I think this is a challenge for the government and also for the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! As has been said, the report has already been dealt with on almost all committees. I myself participated in the Labour Committee and also stressed that in 2020, to which the report concerns, the ministries and the Government worked very intensively, we can say actual night and day, and just under special conditions due to the epidemic. Since the Ombudsman is in the report itself, and even today in his position, he once again warned that a number of decisions were handwritten, that people were confused because they were changing so quickly, I think we must still be aware of why there were so many of them, why the Government had to weigh each week which measures were appropriate, which ones were not being extended, and every week again and again in the Official Journal, also the number of publications in the Official Journal was exposed. With us, this was the Constitutional Court, and of course the Government was holding on to it, so I don't know, in this case I really don't see the problems or have taken into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they also had a lot more work to do. But even though it was an epidemic, you yourself said that many initiatives from previous years had been taken into account. Some of you have been problematic in your views, especially the opposition, how many of these recommendations are unrealised. I would like to remind you that when we considered the 2019 report, 158 new initiatives and 200 initiatives have been carried over and not implemented since the previous years. So, now, in 2020, 128 new and 156 have been transferred. There are a lot of them, but they've shrunk. By reducing the number of unfulfilled proposals that have been made, the government and the ministries have now made recommendations, with all the efforts they have made. But something can be done on our part, and I'm going to end up saying one case. I would like to point out, above all, our social area. Despite all the obstacles, restrictions, efforts we have made, we have overturned several of the recommendations made by the Guardian over the years and years. In the case of physical impairment, we have arranged for everyone to have the opportunity to receive compensation for physical impairment again, regardless of where it occurred, whether at work or outside. We have also arranged for the completion of the work period, so that people will no longer have large deductions, those who have acquired a working age before 1. 1. 2013 For many years, the Keeper kept this in mind, but nothing had happened before. The increase in income was raised, even as he pointed out, this was also a recommendation made by the Ombudsman years ago. He also warned the Ombudsman about the rights of employment rehabilitation. This was the law of the Member, and we also have this possibility of Members, and we all stepped together then, even the opposition tabled it, we complemented it together, made it better, and we accepted it. And the rights of employment rehabilitation have improved. People get more compensation and they get more lunch. That's what the Keeper warned us about in the last few years. Then raise the child’s age limits so that the parents can be hospitalized with them in the hospital. There's one thing I'd like to remind you of. The Income Act was introduced. Today, some have warned that 11 such decisions or 11 such recommendations have been rejected. I remember the recommendation that was rejected last year. For many years, the Ministry of Finance has written that it rejects it, that it does not accept it, but now this is Article 1 of the Income Act, because I have taken over this task myself, convinced the Ministry, and was also with the Ombudsman this year, for which I thank him for the fact that we have complemented this article together, and I sincerely hope that this Income Act will now be adopted. So what am I talking about? All those children who receive family pensions according to their parents, since others of the parents claim them as a dependent family member, all pay their income each year from the start of their computerized calculations. It hasn't happened before, and since then, it's been said for years. The Ombudsman also warned about this, and every year for about five, six years, last year we had the whole review done, it was negative, so it won't be accepted, and now it is. As it is said, Guardian, this first article of the Income Act is mine and yours, and thank you. I hope that the law as a whole will be adopted and that this will be resolved. And that's how you can do it. Therefore, I believe that even with these 11 recommendations, which may have been written by the ministries, it is impossible to sit together and consider all the reasons for and against and find the right solutions. As far as I can recall, I have not heard today, but on the committee, the Ombudsman said that it was encouraging to see more of the Ombudsman's initiatives implemented than in previous years, despite the epidemic. I think I said that myself with these cases that I listed. As far as human rights are concerned, I would say that I am absolutely very supportive of them and they must be realized, but it must be realized that every human right we have is also being struck by the human right of our interlocutor or the human right of a person who is in opposition to us. So we step into their field and with all that we do not follow, then we violate someone else's human rights. For the various measures that are now most up to date, there has been a need and a great deal of weighing will be needed. And where it may seem to someone that it is a violation of his right, however, public health is a very high human right and many others may be limited. You also said that 43 initiatives were sent to the Government. And that most were taken into account, you said. Others summed up, yes, there were so many, but no one heard the other part of your sentence when you said that most were fortunately respected. And thank you. I am aware that, of course, when the ministries were taking decisions overnight — because this was really happening at such a pace — when it was published, all the other day we realized that there was something missing, that someone had been released, that some mistake had occurred. But I am pleased that what you have suggested has been taken into account. The fact that one third of the cases were more than in previous years does not surprise me in the situation we had in 2020, and is likely to be so in the next year when the report is being considered, that is, for 2021. However, I was a little surprised or didn't know what to say, the position of the opposition party, especially the SD, which, for so many years, led the Ministry of Labour and now has been repeating and reiterating loudly the situation in the homes for pensioners or elsewhere relating to the field of the Ministry of Labour. I think that things are moving here now, that homes are building, that a long-term care law has also been prepared, and we will deal with it today at this point. Of course, again the loudest ones will be those who have failed in all these years to finish and accept it, and now they will look for hair in the egg. This has been the saddest thing since I've been in politics. As a matter of fact, the law on long-term care. I hope that it will be as it is accepted, as it goes in two steps. The receipt, as I said, has been accepted. But I, as you said, my guardian, am very concerned and most saddened that it is not only a classic epidemic, but an epidemic of intolerance, hate speech, division. As long as it stays that way in politics, it will be in society, so I hope that we all work together and start here to be an example to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Meira Hot, get ready, Mr. Sonibo Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I can't start without getting involved with my colleague's discussion. I can only say that we are obviously living in two different Slovenias, one is the SMC, where the greatest sadness is just and only that the Social Democrats are reminded of the problems with the care of the elderly, and we say that long-term care is needed, but of course it was justifiable to rule with the decision, because the Government could not otherwise. Dear colleague, it would be easy for the Government to include in the decision-making of the National Assembly, to follow the Constitution of this country, to respect the Constitution and not to adopt non-constitutional decisions every week, unconstitutional decisions, because human rights and freedoms are not limited by sub-legal acts. This is crucial, as has been the case in the past year, for exceptional interference with human rights and freedoms on the basis of sub-legislative acts. And now you say that the government basically followed the Constitutional Court and that's why every week it ruled. I could fully follow all the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, for example, amend, propose legal grounds for restricting human rights or allow respect for the Constitution, allow peaceful assembly, enable the education of children who have not been allowed in the past year as they should have taken care of the special situation of children with special needs. It is not, however, that — now we can say — an unacceptable decision by a minister who has self - imposed distance education has caused great harm to children with special needs, who will not be able to get back at the time when they were denied treatment or full care and education, as they are under law. Believe me, it is not the saddest thing that grieves you — that we have mentioned in our view that long - term care is needed. We are so self-critical that despite the fact that we ran a ministry that you also led in your client, we can look back on ourselves and say that certain recommendations have not been implemented, despite the fact that we should, and that we also knew how to admit our mistakes and, of course, call for what needs to be changed. A law on long-term care had to be adopted. Today, we have it on the table — and it is bad! And if it's bad, it needs to be warned in time. Because this law, which is proposed today, is really just sand in the eyes, in fact, again just one candy. If we follow the recommendations, you are disturbed that we have all warned that the Ombudsman's recommendations have not been implemented, that certain ministries have even rejected them and said why they will not be implemented. The recommendation number one in the Ombudsman’s report is: “The Ombudsman proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examine and explain in its response report the reasons why the Ombudsman’s previous recommendations, which are set out in this annual report, have not been implemented.” It's not true he recommended less! That's not true. Here it is written in red letters: 300 unfulfilled recommendations remained from the past. The point is, the Keeper combed them, examined them, and wrote in the notes that they were only 156, but the most acute. That doesn't mean they're gone. This means that he has cleansed because so many new ones are added, that is 128 new ones, and because I don't think there's any desire to keep those recommendations just a letter on paper, but it's coming true. And you know who's responsible for this? Just the National Assembly that accepts them every year! We accept them, we propose to the Government, which then does not. And the Keeper invites us again next year to accept them, and this is a vicious circle that revolves from year to year. Of course, it's sad and it's unacceptable. That's unacceptable! The recommendations may be non-binding, but they are accepted by the National Assembly, a legislative institution which, although its powers in the past year are unacceptable because of the functioning of the Government and the adoption of decisions, which is unacceptable – the decision-making is unacceptable – has also adopted them accordingly. Your debate. Even when we presented the position of the Social Democrats, we saw that you were even mocking at certain statements. My colleague, that's sad. The fact is that Minister Simona Kustec is the minister to whom, if I am not mistaken, the most constitutional decisions in the past year are still concerned. It wasn't, but when it was, it would have been better if it hadn't been for her decisions. For children, the most vulnerable group in this society has not been adequately taken care of. She didn't take care of it properly. This was also found by the Ombudsman, and this was also found by the Constitutional Court. You know, that's what the opposition has warned you about before, but nothing's settled. The fact is that care for vulnerable groups in this country remains low. It is worrisome that the Ombudsman draws attention to inadequate treatment for, for example, disabled persons. It is unacceptable that from year to year we read about discrimination against people with disabilities. This recommendation is repeated from year to year and is also absolutely unacceptable. Persons with disabilities should be fully involved in society and should not talk about it at all. I think that, for at least two or three years now, the Ombudsman has been calling for the establishment of a special Council for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and he says that the Ombudsman's institution itself is willing to take over. I don't know why we shouldn't follow that. For example, let us leave one commitment under the Convention, which remains unfulfilled from year to year. The fact is, once again, that the Government has taken measures that were unconstitutional, non-legitimate, necessary, proportionate and so on, so they did not comply with the standards of legitimacy and urgency and proportionality which they must meet when they restrict human rights and freedoms. The answer that she did this because she rushed and made decisions overnight is unacceptable. This is not an answer, this is not an excuse, this cannot be an excuse to restrict human rights and freedoms. Such an excuse then means that we have indeed become an arbitrary state and that we receive the answers of a colleague who are absolutely not unacceptable, but ridiculous and absurd and in mockery of all citizens and citizens. It is absolutely necessary to support and, above all, to implement the recommendations. The task of us sitting here in this House is to reach the implementation of the recommendations, not just confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak has the following word, Mr Predrag Baković is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of ministries, respectable Ombudsman! The Guardian, I should like to begin by congratulating you and your team on your success in re-accreditation of the Ombudsman as a national human rights institution within the framework of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions. What is this, because of the public accompanying us? It's a historic achievement, and I think it's right to mention it. So far, since we have an institution of the Ombudsman in this country, this institution has been accredited twice, in 2000 and 2010, then it has received so-called status B. If I simplify what status B means, status B means that it partially meets the criteria for the principles and functioning of national human rights institutions. So we have to be proud of being able to get to the highest level of this. We Slovenians can boast too few times, we prefer to do what we do, but we do not know each other, and it seems to me that it is also right today to commend all your work and, of course, the predecessors who have worked in this area. As you wrote in the report, 2020 was very restrictive because of the epidemic, there have been many interventions in our lives, many times by restricting rights and freedoms. You have repeatedly pointed out that what I myself have seen over the course of the year, you have stated in the report that, as the Ombudsman, you have publicly pointed out that the measures taken by the Government – you have also warned that they must be – proportionate, non-discriminatory, necessary to achieve the objective, professionally justified, legal, that is to say, transparent and appropriate, and, lastly, time-limited, that is legitimate. Were they? I don't think so, far from it. Your report reflected what I say – that the government did not stick to it. Not to mention the many unconstitutional decisions that fall as a result of the current tape, which have also resulted in human rights infringements, many citizens and citizens have paid penalties on the basis of non-constitutional decisions, there is no possibility of repaying this, whether there will be a personal complaint, I do not know. In short, disrespect for your own legislation. Let me just mention freedom of speech, interventions to the U.S.A. Today, the representative of New Slovenia mentioned that they respect freedom of speech. Yes, but it must also be done in such a way as to ensure that those laws adopted in the National Assembly are respected. Not that one official has spent a year scolding over a hundred employees in the U.S.A. and restricting freedom of speech — why? Because of a lack of content or a lack of publication. Not to mention other interventions in the other branches of government, this is also part of the report, not naming the Delegated Prosecutors. It's a joke. I don't know. I don't have any more words to say. Amendments to legislation from day to day, including this is part of the report you have pointed out. Of course, they could not have followed if there were sometimes two or three publications in the Official Journal in one day. The craftsmen had a number of problems when they applied for help. Since the government had closed down a number of activities, in the hope that they had received help, they later found that instead of receiving the aid, they had to repay it today. It's the result of all this. Even a lawyer can't keep track. You've reached into what, 100 laws with these decrees? It'll be a decade if anyone wants to settle this area. What I am pleased with in the report is that it is evident from the beginning of the epidemic that you have been alerting me to the importance of establishing one general trust in the exercise of authority, at the same time that the measures introduced must be adequately clarified and widely accessible. You have also written this in particular in the report, where you mentioned that you specifically mention the importance of a culture of tolerance, a culture of acceptance and dialogue, a culture of integration and, last but not least, a culture of mutual communication. If these recommendations were followed, today we would have three quarters less problems than we have in this country. Sadly, this was not the case, but something else — a culture of resistance — grew. As a small nation, we are traditionally vulnerable to the injustices that are happening to us, and I am not the only one, many warn that it was disrespectful communication, insufficient communication, that we have covered the entire line in the fight against the epidemic. I don't know. I don't have a word of how the highest representatives of the government communicate with us. I would have put an end to Twitter in this country for a month, and we'd have a much better understanding, and I would have banned it. I don't know what they were. And it flew to its own citizens. Even if you ever disagree with citizens, you are the Prime Minister of the Government of these citizens and citizens, we have no one else. Respect for those who think differently. Not to mention how we sometimes talk in this national convention! And, among other things, what you're writing. I have listened to some representatives of the current coalition that the very good things are in this report. That's not true! The report also states that there have been as many as 66 violations by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. New Slovenia is proud of the work of its Minister, Janez Cigler King, I have heard in my position. 66 violations, mostly at the Ministry of Labour. There's no representative. He was maybe twice after 15 minutes. He wasn't on the petition board either, as we can see. But do not boast about how much you will do at home, for in the way you will do so, the former governments could if they were in debt. I support my own responsibility for this area, because we have never found any money to properly regulate the area of the elderly. The area of the elderly, which is also mentioned several times in this report, is mainly in terms of how this government was engaged in restricting freedoms. Locking in senior citizens' homes, inadequate homes that didn't have basic conditions. There's already one home in Hrastnik because I know him because I come from there. He didn't have a choice to make any zones. No, they've decided to lock people up to deal with this virus with a human being who isn't qualified to do that. The record number of the dead is also the “successful” work of another. So I ask you to be respectful when you boast about what you have done in this country. They're not! 5,000 or so dead, for a small town. Just as I've welcomed this report of yours all these years. The one who wanted to read it read it to himself, and I can see from the debate that a lot of them have not read. I wish you a successful job in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, and Mrs Eva Irgl is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Guardian! This year's report also covers quite a good part of the problem concerning the Roma community, which I think is good. Of course, I will discuss this work on my own because I come from a congregation where the Roma community is present, and there are also challenges and some problems that arise from them. First of all, I'd like to define myself as a covidone. I must say that there is also quite a presence among the Roma community of skepticism regarding vaccination and transplantation. As a result, in recent times there has been a situation in which many are also ill in Romani settlements. All others who have not been vaccinated or do not have a condition of PCT still go to restaurants, go to shops. We see difficulties in avoiding conflicts between traders and ministerial servants and, of course, do not ask or ask them about these conditions because they are afraid. This also results in a situation such as the current epidemic. As far as education and co-worker are concerned in primary schools, I would like to get involved in education later, but I would like to point out here that I am very pleased that you have noticed that in Kočevska we have been most active in trying to turn the situation on the ground with concrete proposals, particularly in the areas of housing, education and employment. We are aware that this issue is difficult and requires systemic measures also at the legislative level and also a great deal of Roma self-initiative. Regrettably, despite all these measures on Roma, the success of education remains poor. Many or even most of them do not even reach the completed level of primary education, and it is still present that education does not mean value and we are always going around in a circle. As far as Roma education is concerned at the time of the epidemic, especially when it comes to home schooling, I can say that all Roma families in Kočevska have received a remote computer. Also interesting is the fact that when they were returned, there were a lot of games on these computers, as well as various films and photos with the content of XXX, which means that they control the computer and that they are also able to upload applications, so there are no fears here, at least in this part of the country. In the first wave they were sent home by mail, but they found that the matter was not so successful, and then in the second wave and later they sent four teachers to Romani settlements, three of them on the phone, and they worked with them for an hour twice a week. However, they did not work only with those who were schoolable but also with other family members, which was very good. Things turned out to be good, especially since there was a fear of what would happen when we had to go back to school. I must say, to the surprise of all the majority of Roma, they returned to school and then successfully continued their education. However, when these children enter puberty, things change completely and then education is no longer a priority and they do not finish schooling and there are problems. You have rightly found, too, my opinion is that the results in all Roma areas are not the responsibility of the Ombudsman, but primarily the Government, in the second line of the National Assembly and also the authorities of local self-government. Above all, I would like to point out that the responsibility for improving its position, for the development and successful integration into Slovenian society lies primarily with the Roma community itself or each individual. This needs to be highlighted. When such a person realizes that this is the way, and changes the way life is now, he is actually close to a solution. At that time, the local community and the major problems are not really helping him in the first place. However, there are many who expect only help and do not change the pattern of conduct. This is seen in those cases where an individual Roma family moves from a Romani settlement to which you are, and if they do not change their patterns of life or behavior – it is a disturbing noise, loud music, impersonal driving, smoking and the like – there is an immediate conflict between the majority population and the Roma community and then these things spread rapidly. Thus, people in other places, even before they get to know a family who move in, predict problems and try to prevent settlement. It is not driven by intolerance or hatred or anti-cyganism, as you yourself mentioned, but by the experience and bad practice that has taken place in a neighboring village. Here I would point out that I did not notice much about the warning that it is also a poor quality of life for those members of the majority population who live near or are neighbors of Roma settlements. Given that I know the matter well, I will say that there is almost no Roma settlement in the south-eastern part of Slovenia where members of the majority population or Roma community would not be in conflict with each other. We are reminded of this by many letters that have been coming for quite some time, such as Mihovica is the most active, and of course there is also a need to draw attention to this. I would like to draw attention to another problem which, of course, you will not solve as a guardian, but is a problem that is extremely problematic, it is the Roma's debt, due to the various unpaid obligations they have due to the penalties they have in some way earned. Since recovery is not possible in particular for those on social transfers, it somehow gives the Roma a false sense of immunity and, on the other hand, these debts as millstones drag them to the bottom and make them unable to rise and swim out of the state they are in. This way nothing moves, they don't want to get a job for executions, they don't want to become property owners, because these debts bind and burden them, and that's actually this magical or sad circle that's causing the problem. There's something else I'd like to point out. During the previous year, the volunteers also showed and exposed to the wider area of the country the problems faced by those who have members of the Roma community. In particular, the inhabitants of the Slovenian coastal areas, where the Roma used to take vacations, have been well acquainted with these problems and can tell what experience they had with them. We all know that these were bad experiences or very negative. This is not about the intolerance of people, because there these people with this problem were not burdened, but quickly realized that these problems were in the south-eastern part of Slovenia and were then transferred to the coast. It must simply be an alarm to all of us to find out that this is a real problem and that those who are responsible also take certain measures. I would also like to point out that I welcome the recommendations you made regarding the systemisation of the Roma assistant with regard to the systemisation of the Roma coordinator at social work centres. Let me say that in Kočevska it has been paying for a number of years, providing funds to the Roma coordinator at the Centre for Social Work, because the Ministry of Labour has not yet found a solution for regular employment, but it is absolutely necessary and indispensable. The lady who is doing this is being educated, and when she meets the bureaucratic conditions in this regard, she will probably also be hired by the Ministry of Labour. At that time, however, the congregation finances, which I find to be a bit of a joke. A community like the one that is not competent for this area is funding someone to run the business. Of course that's the problem. I would also like to welcome your call to study whether the provision of a child supplement should be conditional on the obligation of a real primary school education of a child. To this end, the necessary amendments to the sectoral legislation should also be prepared. Finally, I believe that the report is properly prepared, that more or less of all aspects have come to light and that, after all, the Roma will have to assume their part of the responsibility for integration, progress, and, of course, all of us who work on certain functions and bodies. I believe that in the final stage there is neither in the country nor in the local community a man who would not want any family to stand on their own feet and live a normal life. Let us hope that action will also take place in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Eva Irgle, Mr Blaž Pavlin is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Peter Svetina, the Ombudsman! First of all, I must say that I have been monitoring the Ombudsman's reports for many years, and I must say, as regards the form of these reports, that they are better and even more transparent from year to year, which is certainly commendable. I am also monitoring the work of human rights ombudsmen, and I can certainly make some sort of comparison of how someone worked. For example, in the early 1990s, we were more concerned with the Roma issues previously raised. This is certainly true, and this national assembly has repeatedly spoken about these issues. Even when I was President of the Human Rights Commission, we discussed this subject several times. For example, other human rights defenders have put considerable emphasis on children’s rights. I remember, in those years in particular, strengthening advocacy. Then we moved with the next guardian to take more care of the elders. Much had been warned about low pensions, violence against the elderly. Among other things, there was much emphasis on the necessity of adopting a long-term care law. And we're here today. After so many years and so many years, we will finally be able to discuss long-term care at the next point, and I hope that the law will be adopted, because this will resolve a number of issues that have been practically insurmountable for years and years. However, we know about the composition of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities at the time and the composition of the Ministry of Health. However, I must say that all the guardians so far have in common that they do not apply Article 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman. I've said this a lot, but I'll do it a thousand times if I have to. I think that this is a very important article by which the Ombudsman can act on his own initiative, thus starting a procedure on his own initiative when he detects a violation of human rights. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, when we discussed this item on the agenda, the specific content covered by the Committee asked the Deputy Ombudsman how many of these procedures were initiated in a self-initiative manner and I did not get this information. But if we look at the statistics submitted by the Ombudsman, we can see that 6 000 852 cases were dealt with in 2020, which means a 33% increase in 2020. Of course, in the opposition it is immediately: “Yes, of course, increase, increase ” of course is an increase because we need to be aware of the situation we faced in 2020! [[…]] This is a situation that is incomparable to any other situation so far in our history. Incomparable. Incomparable, and this must be kept in mind, and this must be taken into account in some way. I am afraid that the Ombudsman's report did not include, of course, the environment and the situation that took place in 2020. In short, we had a cavid crisis, we had an epidemic, and it is logical that individuals were also in greater distress, and for this reason they also turned to the Ombudsman. At the same time, it is unfair on the part of the opposition parliamentary groups not to say how much this government has done for the most vulnerable groups in spite of the epidemic. Personally, we on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons have adopted a huge number of laws that correct injustices for the return. Back up. I'm not going to go into who was the minister when these injustices were caused, because it doesn't seem important to me anymore, because it's right to move on from this. And it's only right to fix them. We do this and it is essential, and this is crucial, to correct the injustices behind us and to make such legislation so that these injustices do not happen again, or other injustices. We are at this time when the epidemic, when we were so attacked on all sides and we are still today – I am sure that no left formation of governments would last two days under such conditions, two days, and yet we have done so much for people, huge for the economy, to keep it going. That must be said out loud. We have kept more than 300,000 jobs and have taken many steps towards preserving the economy. For the most burdened ones who cared for the elderly in nursing homes and hospitals, we have established a system of rewards. We immediately provided an additional EUR 26 million for those who have a specific job in nursing homes. I personally have walked a lot through various forms of institutional protection. Of course, not during the epidemic, but before and after, and I can make a comparison between homes, and I can say that I have some image that you've always raised two questions, that's spatial distress, that spatial capacity that is clearly too small, and that's not enough of a specific frame. But this government is saving it. We give enormous resources to build homes for the elderly to increase our capacity. What the previous governments have been doing is really asking themselves, but it was somewhere beneath the surface when we came into the epidemic, and it turned out even more. More of a demonstration, and today we're saving it. We have solved the difficulties of self-employed people through monthly basic income. I think that the whole context needs to be looked at and said also what was good, but of course to be aware that we have also made mistakes. Who doesn't? And in a situation that's not comparable to anything. Nobody's perfect. No one is perfect in the opposition either, no one. But believe me, everything was going in the direction of finding the most suitable solution for as many people as possible. But you can't always meet everyone in everything. So I think that here too the Ombudsman should look at these things that he wrote down in his report by taking into account the situation in which we are in. Because we need to know that the epidemic did not just happen in Slovenia. The epidemic took over the entire world, and it was also where the decrees and measures were taken. Most countries have had even more stringent measures, more stringent measures than we do. But, of course, everything was going in the direction of collapse, just to collapse. Why don't we all build together once for a change? I believe that thinking at different levels would change greatly if everyone started building together. Build! These are such beautiful things that eventually connect us and complement us. Ruining is the easiest, it's a fact to create chaos too, but I don't want to be part of this program. I have to tell you this now, and I never do that if you're following my work. I think it is necessary to build, but it is also important to warn when we see that some things are not going in the right direction. Here I think that the opposition must play its part, but not just look for some mistakes in such a difficult situation and then potentiate them into disability. I think we need to step together and do this together. I think it is very unfair to discuss things in the way they did today in the opposition, if we know that we have raised, say, the lowest invalidity pension. For years and years we have put this on the agenda of the Slovenian Democratic Party when we were in opposition, never has the coalition accepted it. We have arranged this, so we have raised the lowest invalidity pensions, we have corrected the injustices of more than 56,000 people who have not been recognized by the time of their arrival, even though they have paid fair wages under the rules then in force. Let's say that out loud to everyone who's here today in this room. We have eliminated discrimination against insured persons with physical disabilities, allocated funds for the homes of older citizens, paid the pensioners twice the solidarity allowance of between € 130 and €300, raised the pensions guaranteed, eliminated discrimination for farmers and more. I don't want to go back to how many wrongs have been corrected. So just so casually talking about some things doesn't seem fair to me, it doesn't seem fair to me. It doesn't seem fair to me, and it doesn't seem fair to me. Despite the fact that you are also showing catastrophic data today, I must tell you that we currently have 16.6% economic growth and the lowest unemployment rate. This has also been achieved through the measures taken in the National Assembly. So look, you just have to be specific about these things, and above all, you have to be just. Again, righteous. He needs to be fair. This is also expected from a policy that can judge and overestimate and weigh and, indeed, then look at the matter fairly from any policy option. It was said that the most unrealised recommendations were the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Yeah, but you need to know why and you need to say it out loud. I went to look very closely at these recommendations, and I saw that there were six unrealised, some partially implemented, or other permanent tasks of the ministry. There is something else, however, that there have been a lot of unrealised recommendations in this ministry years ago, which I have kept reminding as President of the Commission on Human Rights. And I can say again that we have faced, as I call it, institutional ignorance on the Human Rights Commission on several occasions when we wanted to get answers to the people who asked us to do so. We gave more E.R.s, but nothing happened. Well, after I've made this public myself on various occasions, things have started to change. And today I can say that we get answers very quickly. That seems important to me. So, things are going better. It is true, however, that last year was so specific that it was actually very difficult to judge and judge. As always, I must say that the Ombudsman's reports are always well prepared. Always well prepared, but what is my criticism is, above all, that it was not sufficiently placed in the context of last year's year, which was, once again, incompatible with the remaining years before this year. Incomparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	The next word is Mr Blaž Pavlin, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The annual report for the past year of the Ombudsman is a reflection of the past year, and the 2020 report also reflects the situation in Slovenia at the time of the epidemic. This was certainly one special year in which we faced the epidemic and the fight for the health and life of our citizens and citizens. The coalition has been more or less successful in dealing with these problems, and many of the laws adopted by the CAP have had and have also had results in the lowest unemployment and highest economic growth. Here I might also point out what has been repeatedly exposed to attention for vulnerable groups today. As much as it has done this year and a half for vulnerable groups, there is no such thing as past times. Here I would give thanks to the opposition as well as to the coalition parties, because many of the proposals we have adopted during this period came from the opposition and we have recognized them as good and supported them in the coalition. The very structure of these recommendations, where the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities emerges, seems to me to be similar to the recommendations for the remaining years. Here, of course, the area covered by this ministry is kind of specific, because to a large extent this ministry covers the most vulnerable groups in our society and these recommendations are therefore somehow logical. However, in his performance today, the Ombudsman wrote in his report that, to a large extent, this ministry followed some of the recommendations already made last year, especially as regards the situation in the homes for the elderly, to the contrary and to the extent that it has implemented them. Perhaps I would touch here or express my agreement with the views of my colleague Baković on the situation in the Roma community, particularly in South-Eastern Slovenia. I myself have quite a Romani community in my congregation, and I would fully agree with what my colleague Baković said. Here, however, I would suggest to the Ombudsman that the assessment of this situation also be accompanied by the problems faced by the majority of the population who are being coexisted with the Roma community. So much for that. Then perhaps there was something else about the decisions of the Constitutional Court itself or the fact that it was stated that last year there were no, I think, 18 unexecuted decisions of the Constitutional Court, in 2018 there were 10 of them. Here it is to a large extent the responsibility of the National Assembly to accept this. One of these decisions was last year or early this year, which is about funding public programmes in primary schools despite opposition. Now there is something else about these decisions of the Constitutional Court and the validity of the judgments. We know that these decisions were adopted at a difficult time, but it is not a coincidence that the Constitutional Court annulled this decision when the worst epidemic was over. At the time of the epidemic, no one seemed to be able to take responsibility for such decisions. This question was also addressed in a separate opinion by the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Rajko Knez, and allow me to quote him: “If the Constitutional Court were to decide on the constitutionality of such regulations during their period of validity, only because the legislator has inadmissibly abandoned the regulation of the substantive legal framework for restricting freedom of movement and the right to assembly would not be repealed. The immediate repeal would result in the termination of any appropriate, necessary and more proportionate restrictions on the two human rights which pursued the constitutionally permissible objective of protecting human health and life. The immediate repeal of such rules would also lead to the failure of the State to comply with its positive obligations to prevent the spread of communicable diseases due to the gaps described in the Infectious Diseases Act, i.e. at the level of legal regulation, which could result in irreparable adverse consequences for these constitutional goods, which would lead to an even more unconstitutional situation." End of quote. Thus, in my opinion, the decrees protected people's lives and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Mrs. Tadej Shuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Respected Ombudsman with fellow workers, distinguished representatives of the government, welcome! I'm gonna be a little short, 'cause I don't have a lot of time at my disposal. First of all, thank you for your efforts and your entire team. Second, it is obvious that you are in trouble, which is better, sometimes being an activist loud or in the background to negotiate hard and which is easier to handle. But this is a struggle and a decision that you have to make on your own, and we can't really advise you on that. What I am thinking about personally, however, is that 2021, when you present it, will of course be some very big novelty, and this is a violation of some kind of collective rights beyond the legislative basis, and what has recently been very revealing, past or even contrary to the profession. All that we are reading today, yesterday and the day before, how pressure has been put on individual professional institutions to declare inappropriate and fast government tests appropriate, and when the expert hopes to come forward, she loses her job. This is so terrible and this is the pure definition of totalitarian state. And we have to fight it as hard as we can. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Here we go, Mrs Tadeja Suštar Zalar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I would like to express my concern at the tone of the debate used before me by my colleagues from the SD, which is taking place in the general public, as well as in the National Assembly, in relation to the blessing of public schools. We are opposed to the detailed and unconvincing interpretations of the principle of separation of the Church and other religious communities from the State, which are apparently given in order to exclude certain churches and other religious communities from public life. I don't know if the SD colleagues understand what the principle of separation of the Church from the state means. The principle of separation of the Church and other religious communities from the State cannot be interpreted in such a way as to mean their exclusion from society. This is totally inadmissible and this is also stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 19 January 2017. Such a blessing is not contrary to the Constitution, as stated by a fellow magician. Koprivc. It should also be pointed out that the Slovenian legal order does not prohibit schools and local communities in order to agree on the blessing of the school facility with any of the churches and other religious communities if they consider it appropriate. The academic society Lawyer points out that it is also unacceptable to declare atheism, agnosticism and other religious communities, or world views, as a State’s point of view. We advocate a pluralistic approach which, as the only neutral approach, promotes respect, coexistence and the presence of all religions and world views in public life. The blessing of school facilities at the opening ceremony is part of the precious Slovenian tradition and culture, which can only enrich the ceremony. It is entirely inappropriate to abuse such a tradition to deepen ideological divisions and to raise political points cheaply. The Ombudsman did not write anywhere that the blessing of public schools was unconstitutional, but merely stated that it was controversial and that it was not unconstitutional and recommended the regulation of legislation in this area. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of reported debaters and are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Government and the Ombudsman will be given the floor. Let me just point out that the representative of the government, please agree which of the secretaries of state wants a word because he only gets the word of one government representative. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I thought all government representatives had the right to speak here in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	No, Mr. Kangler. Let me explain. In the context of the debate, either of you may apply at any time to the floor. In the concluding part of the debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	The debate is not yet concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	If you would listen to me, you would hear that I have read that we have exhausted the list of debaters and are moving to the final part of the debate, where one of the representatives of the Government gets the floor first and finally as the conclusion of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	This is by general parliamentary practice and by business rules, so as not to move forward. You have the floor to conclude if you have agreed that you, as Secretary of State, are the one to conclude this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	All right, I'll take that right. In view of your interpretations, I sincerely thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Guardian, representatives of the Government, and above all the House of Representatives! We heard the report here today, and in particular the debate on the Ombudsman's 2020 report. I must admit, on the one hand, I am very pleased that almost the entire SD Group is present in the Chamber, with some others not paying such attention at the Ombudsman's own appearance in the 2020 report. But this parliamentary group has been very critical in some respects, particularly critical of the functioning of the Ministry of Labour, the family, the social sector, and I have to draw attention to some things. This 2020 report is also written for the period when the Social Democrats were part of the government, the former government so-called the Sharche government. On 16 March 2020, Janša's government became operational. To be critical of your work, I am pleased that you have also acknowledged that you have not been successful and that you have failed to make some of the recommendations that the Ombudsman has explained here have been addressed in the past. I agree with you and agree with the Ombudsman when he was critical that he should be a representative of the Ministry here and that there are 66 violations in 2020 where the Ministry did not address the consequences. These 66 violations would not have been removed if in the past, given that you have been leading this ministry for more than 10 years, all recommendations and violations had been addressed. Today I would not even have to be a government representative here for this area if we were consistent and act in the same way as the Constitution, the Government Act and everything else dictates. Given that I also agree with Mr Bakovic, a fellow Member of the Social Democrats, on the Roma issue. The government is working very hard, there are several commissions set up, taking this issue seriously, the Roma have no more rights than other citizens or citizens in some environment, and have exactly the same rights, including duties as regards education, respect for laws. Dr. Olaj, director of police, before that was also the secretary of state at the internal ministry, worked hard in this area also by the repressive authority to try to solve this problem in a society that is a problem of society as a whole. That is why, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the police force this year, we hired three Roma police officers exclusively, even through this work of the police, which is mostly directly informed of the violations, about the problems in some environments, to try to solve the problem and to bring closer to the problem they have in a community, in a way that we are more effective in solving this problem even through giving the Roma an opportunity in communication, in establishing contacts between the police and Roma in some environment. This communication and dialogue must also be established in all other areas, including social, higher education, secondary education and the family, and elsewhere. Of course, I cannot agree with some of the critical attacks on the Government on this report, as presented by Mr Koprivc on his and your views on the problem of covido. We well know that there was a change of government just after the outbreak occurred in Slovenia, we well know that the government collapsed at the time. Any decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected. It is true that some sub-legal acts have been adopted, features to prevent an epidemic. It is true, however, that some politicians, mainly from the opposition, gave legitimacy to those who have broken such government decrees or measures when the Government has taken decisions in terms of preventing the epidemic and spreading the disease of cavid. I will not be speaking here today, but look at some of the photos from Friday's protests in 2020. Who and in what way did he cycle with protestors without masks? Who and how did he speak in the National Assembly and in this house of democracy that children in primary schools do not need to wear a mask? Who was the one who gave legitimacy to those protests that were not reported to be illegal? Everyone has the right to protest, everyone has the right to freedom of expression, with the right to respect the Constitution and all other legislation. But apparently some in this country are not subject to the Constitution when laws are not in force in the opposition, when they are in opposition, everything is permissible. Unfortunately, there is no difference and there must be no difference between each other and the other. A member of the SD, Mrs Meira Hot, spoke about the constitution, about the limitation of human rights and said to Minister of Higher Education Kustec that she had done tremendous harm. I strongly reject any harm. It had to take measures to prevent the spread of the virus in secondary, primary and higher education programmes. She had to! It is true, however, that some in the opposition have worked hard to bring them down, regardless of the cost, regardless of their illness, regardless of the consequences that are present today. So tell me, why do we have more than 2,000 140 infected today or yesterday? Tell me. Because you have given some legitimacy with your appearances, with your presence at some meetings, without masks [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Dear Mr. Kangler, let us focus on your content on the report of the Ombudsman [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	I am talking about covid and the 2020 report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Not to protest, but to go on and on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	I understand, President, that this is painful for you as President, because on behalf of [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Mr. Kangler, please, if you don't prejudge what hurts me and what doesn't!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Then please don't bother me! No! No!?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	It is my duty to ensure that the debate takes place in the spirit of the agenda. And please, if you are, as Secretary of State, who is a guest here in our house, respectful of all Members, including me as the Chairman-in-Office. And once again, I urge you to stick to the topic on the agenda, this is the report of the Ombudsman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	That is exactly what I am holding and the debates of the Members which discussed the report of the Ombudsman 2020. You're not here, Madam President. I didn't make it up. But I am still alive in this Chamber and I have listened to your Members, so it is right for me to give an answer and views on behalf of the Government on the debate of Members. I don't know what I'm talking about here today if I don't write here before, what any Member has said and said. I think it is right for someone to be critical of the government regarding the report to give an answer to this criticism. We also told the guardian, and he also heard. And it's right that you do too. You seem to hear a lot of bad things. And I'll finish it slowly. I have to. [[…]] Can you guarantee peace in the Chamber, Chairman? May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Mr. Kangler, you have peace in the hall. The biggest disturbance you're making is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	Well, all right. Just so I know what level of debate you have. Well, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Yes, Mr. Kangler, you've just reduced it a lot. I'm asking you to focus on the content of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	Once again, my time is running out on behalf of the Government, Your Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Yeah, I'm sorry. Stick to the darkness, and I won't interrupt and warn you. It's your fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	Well, since I am already on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior here today and on behalf of Minister Aleš Hojs, I must also stress in our area that, in the report of the Ombudsman 2020, it is clear that the police, the Ministry of the Interior with the Ombudsman, are well involved in all the recommendations we have received in the past from the Ombudsman, that we have accepted, implemented, addressed the shortcomings. And I think it is appropriate that everyone who receives any recommendation from the Ombudsman, regardless of the Ministry, must be reacted immediately or in the shortest possible time possible. Because the guardian does not do it for himself, the guardian does it for people, people who turn to the guardian in crisis, in distress, in lack of knowledge, and these people need to be helped. These people also need to be helped in such a way as to react quickly, effectively and, above all, legally to certain services. Here the Ombudsman can stress whether or not you ask the Ombudsman, the attitude of the Slovenian police and the Ministry of the Interior towards the Ombudsman's institution is at the highest possible level and we are still trying to improve this level. The Ombudsman is always welcome in all the organisational units of the police, including the Ministry of the Interior, and often comes unannounced to a number of police stations, where he exercises supervision, especially during the night, regarding the treatment of citizens, the supervision of detained persons and so on. We look forward to any such oversight, for if there is a defect, we can also eliminate it on the basis of his recommendations. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Not only the Ministry of the Interior, but all ministries will follow and follow the Ombudsman's recommendations. They must do their best to eliminate the shortcomings that are present, and the government will not deny it as soon as possible. Sometimes, though, some things cannot be resolved if the law is not adopted or if the marriage initiative has not gone through in the National Assembly. For the time being, we have an executive and legislative branch of power, and many times the government would also expect the state of mind to listen to the opposition not to the needs of the government, but to the needs of society and people in Slovenia. But you are more concerned about elections and early elections and so on. That's my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. First, Mr Kangler, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which stipulates that it is you who, at a meeting which does not talk about the issue on the agenda, can give a reminder to you at this moment, because your discussion was far from the content we are discussing. In view of the fact that the other secretaries of the State have now been somewhat inconvenient, let me explain once again. All the representatives of the Government had the opportunity to comment on the debate at any time and to discuss and comment on their views, to comment on the debates of the other Members and so on. Now, if this right was taken voluntarily by Secretary of State Kangler at the conclusion of the debate, it is not my fault that you did not agree on this earlier. It is true, however, that at the end of the debate we still have a time-sharing, where one of the representatives of the Government can again apply and further discuss. Mrs Meira Hot wanted a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, with regard to my procedural proposal, I think you have heard it in part. The fact is that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior has now allowed the explicit abuse of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, that in the final part of the debate he has had a controversy with Members who no longer have the opportunity to discuss that you have ignored the good three hours of debate when you could at any time come forward to any debate, and you have not done so, but have waited for the conclusion that you can attack and discredit Members personally, but have not responded to the Ombudsman's recommendations that are under discussion today. That everything is very wrong in this government shows already that you have taken the word yourself, despite the fact that it has always been the practice that it was somehow in the intervention of the Ministry of Justice, which usually gave a comprehensive conclusion to the government's response to the Ombudsman's recommendations. But you have now chosen this path, abused the Rules of Procedure and disputed with Members who cannot respond to you, in a way that, of course, you went back in person and did not discuss the work of the Ombudsman and his recommendations to this government, but, of course, the Social Democrats and the images and so on. Look, I can have pictures too, and I can show you pictures too, but today's debate is about the content of the Ombudsman's report for 2020 and believe me, it would be better to read this report than to look at the images from the protests. [[Mr Milky Way and the gesture of Secretary of State of Kangler]] Please, excuse me, but have some respect for these sexisms in the direction of hysterical women. That's not what I'm up to. That's not what I'm up to. I also ask that you give a warning to the guest in this National Assembly and that respect be shown for women's ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Yeah, I saw that inappropriate gesture, too. It is extremely disrespectful, Mr Kangler, that you behave this way in our house, where you are a guest, I repeat. And even in this place, I'm giving you another reminder, because the sexist behavior that you've now afforded to your colleague, Meir Hot, is unacceptable! Now he gets the word, I hope that we will calm the ball, for the final word of the Ombudsman. Mr. Peter Svetina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you all very much for this debate over the course of three hours! However, I would like to respond to some specific questions or proposals that have been made. Mr Bevk has asked for a comment on what it means to have 5,000 children without the internet. That's a huge number. We also know that NGOs, schools, and, finally, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have provided computers and internet connections, but we need to be aware that 5,000 children are without internet, how many without really modern computers, because we also see that every computer is not working today. How many are without the software needed to do so? That is how I think we must take another big step in this direction so that Slovenia is equipped, as far as these digitisations are concerned or accessibility is concerned. Finally, accessibility in vulnerable target groups, and in people on the social side, not least to paper, to printers and toners. So this is a really big number for me, and we've estimated by our demand that there are about a few hundred of them, and then it turns out there are 5,000. So it's too big a number. After the rest of the debate, that a number of recommendations have been made and that you have also tabled laws on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations. Yes, I emphasized that, and I agree with that. However, it is certainly my legitimate expectation that what has come true is coming from the representatives of the Government. And no, my job, but the guardian's job is to warn you of irregularities. And it would probably seem extremely inappropriate to talk here only about the positive things that have happened, not to point out those who are still to be done. The problem of the non-Roma population is constantly being pointed out. The two Members who pointed out this did not explicitly state this in this year's report, but in all other reports. As for Mrs Irgle's initiative and questions. On its own initiative, 83 cases were opened only this year and 83 cases were opened on their own initiative or the Ombudsman’s own initiative in 2020. It is said that this observation that the guardian of this instrument does not use this instrument is not true. However, in my own annual report on the first page of my foreword, and today in my address to this high assembly, I have stressed that this year's report needs to be put in the context of the epidemic and that the whole world has been marked with this epidemic. So thank you all very much for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Svetina. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss this further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see there's no interest. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments to the draft report have not been tabled and the draft report will therefore be decided on Tuesday 26 October in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF LONG-TERM ASSISTANCE LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of the First-signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister. Mr. Janez Poklukar, Minister of Health, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We are looking at an extremely important law for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Here is the Long-Term Care Act, which will regulate the content that touches the life of all of us; the people who need long-term care today, all of us who may need it tomorrow, all of us who are in the role of the owners of those who need long-term care and not least of the employees in this area. Our shared responsibility is the adoption of a system law that will regulate the long-term care in the Republic of Slovenia by providing conditions for accessible, quality and security care. Citizens with comparable needs will be given access to comparable rights, regardless of their location or social status. The need for a uniform, systemic and financial regulation in the area of long-term care has been regularly recalled by the European Commission since 2013 in its recommendations. Long - term care is not just about dealing with the elderly. The system covers services and measures for persons who are dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks due to illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity for a long time or for a permanent period. These are measures involving both a young disabled person and an older lady. We're all in aging on the same path. It is high time to regulate the area of long-term care, so we have before us a proposal for a law, a law that complements and strengthens existing rights. The bill does not abolish them, but connects them to a new pillar of social security that responds to the needs of those in need of long-term care. The law provides a basis for beneficiaries to have access to comparable rights with comparable needs. The law provides the basis for the beneficiary to have a choice, to bring new services to strengthen and maintain independence and e-supply, to improve the situation of today's family assistants, to manage the growing private financing of individuals and to make the local community financially burdensome. It puts the user in the center. It improves the planning, management and quality assurance, safety and efficiency of the management of long-term care as a public service and establishes effective public control not only over the use of public resources, but also on the proper supply of persons. Dear Members, honourable Members, the proposal for the Long-Term Care Act that you have before you today is the product of long years of work, dialogue with the general public, professional associations, societies and other stakeholders, and inter-resort coordination. As Minister, I have committed myself to working with people and people. I point out all the time that my goal is to help, as Minister, to empower health care, and to provide long-term care to the social system, which, as we know, has been in infrastructure and human resources for years. We are proposing and adopting constructive solutions with our colleagues at the ministries, including those you will propose in the process of enacting legislation in the National Assembly. We have already received quite a few initiatives, particularly with regard to the financing and regulation of existing rights with which the proposal can be complemented. We will also go against companies to support the implementation of long-term care. If we don't adopt the proposed law, we can't get to the law for at least a year and a half. This prolongs the daily tribulations of many individuals, many Slovenes and Slovenes. It is essential that we take a step forward in the area of long-term care as a country. I appeal to all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the class, to dismiss the upcoming elections and client policies. In our discussion of the bill, let us think about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, she gets the word Mrs. Iva Dimic. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, the Secretary of State you're with us today! The life expectancy of the population in Slovenia is increasing, reflecting improvements in the standard of living of the population and the progress of medicine. In a long-lived society, the future is changing and the needs of people and their families will change. With the Long-Term Supply Act, we want to create conditions and opportunities for a quality life for all generations, and we place special emphasis on decent ageing in New Slovenia. This is certainly the course of all the actions and actions of the Ministry of Labour, the family, the social affairs of John Cigler King, since in a good year and a half the reconstruction and construction of new homes for the elderly, as well as deinstitutionalisation programmes, there is long-term care. However, if this is to be achieved, coordinated adaptations to labour market measures, lifelong learning, health and long-term care, social protection, the living environment, as well as other areas are urgently needed. We are all aware that Slovenia is delaying the introduction of a modern long-term care system. It is essential to establish insurance and an effective network of long-term care facilities. To this end, public funds must be provided and complemented by private resources. In doing so, it is necessary to follow modern trends in the care of the elderly, which is not limited to institutional care alone. Looking back on the past 20 years clearly reveals that despite the past six attempts to adopt a law on long-term care, there is not enough desire, strength and courage in politics and society. Certainly such a complex law is not easy to prepare, to reconcile it with all stakeholders and NGOs, but in Novi Slovenija we have similarly prepared the Personal Assistance Act, which today allows people with disabilities a quality of independent life and proves that they can. We welcome the ZDUS programme Older for the elderly, volunteer programmes, Karitas programmes, the Red Cross. We are counting on them in the future, and they will be part of long-term care services. They are precious and people know them and are their users of their services. Thank you for everything and also for supporting the marriage. The need for a single system regime and the long-term financial sustainability of the long-term care sector has been regularly pointed out by the European Commission, professional and lay public, in its reports since 2013. We can also see that the lack of orderly long-term care has been highlighted by exactly the covida-19 epidemic. When we talk about long-term care services, we have in mind assistance in basic daily tasks, health care, basic daily tasks, assistance in supporting daily tasks and services for strengthening and maintaining autonomy and e-care. The use of long-term care rights is divided into four pillars: the first pillar — formal care in the institution, the second — formal home care, the third — monetary income and the fourth pillar — the provider of the family member. The proposal for a long-term supply law provides for the progressive introduction of rights to services. This will enable long-term care services in the institution and for the provider of the family member in the coming year, that is from 2022 onwards. The provision of long-term care such as the provision of long-term care at home and the payment of money brings the possibility of using it from 2024 onwards. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we are aware that many times there are desires, expectations on the one hand and reality and ensuring stable funding on the other hand are often at odds. Thus, the proposal for a long-term supply law also provides for the adoption and enforcement of the Compulsory Insurance Act for long-term care until 2025. If this is not achieved at this time due to the political unhappiness in the future mandate of the future government and the division, the difference from existing resources will cover the state budget. Once again, we congratulate both ministers, both Minister Janez Cigler King and Minister Janez Poklukar, on coordinating and preparing today's proposal for a long-term care law. This represents a major turning point in Slovenia, so the Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Over the past 20 years, we have only been able to talk about the concept of long-term care. Although many different drafts have emerged in this long period, some have included a common arrangement of long-term care and personal assistance, but with clear delimitations. A few years ago, we decided that personal assistance would only be arranged in a separate marriage. At least one area of social life and one, with the constitution of a protected social group, we were able to arrange in marriage, this is in the Personal Assistance Act. Long-term care, however, appears to be somewhat shaken by a walnut that has finally found its parliamentary path. I believe that some who today do not favour the proposal for a long-term supply law can recognize certain content of the bill, since this law did not arise overnight, but over the years it has been created by more or less equal teams who have worked on the same and similar drafts for many years. In this place we join the statement of the Minister of Health, who recently recalled that the absence of a long-term care law means a loss for those who need long-term care services and are generally the most vulnerable. The weaknesses of the current institutional care of the elderly were evident at the time of the declared covid-19 epidemic. I believe we all remember the facts. In addition, we know that in Slovenia it is not satisfactory to provide for those who, due to age, mental or physical harm, need the help of others, as there is no equal or comparable treatment of individuals with regard to access to services. The law, which today will be discussed in a few hours, brings many new and good solutions. The types of long-term care services are classified in the following categories: support for basic and supporting daily tasks, health care, basic daily tasks, services for strengthening and maintaining independence and e-services. The purpose of such a set of services is to enable individuals to stay as long as possible in their home environment and may never have to go into institutional care. However, if institutional care proves to be the only appropriate and necessary, an individual may choose between other means of providing long-term care, that is, between residential units, care or nursing homes, depending on how many users and caregivers need help for their own lives and how much health care they need. However, the way to provide long - term care is open for each one to choose for himself. As an opportunity to see in the text of the bill and in the introductory explanations, this law does not impose restrictions on the inclusion in the long-term care of institutions, but lays down the current regime under which the institutional protection of older persons is, in principle, justified only by persons over 65 years of age. In the lower groups, the eligibility for long-term care is encouraged to receive integrated services at home, i.e. within the framework of its social network. It is logical that it is not appropriate to involve beneficiaries with a smaller amount of necessary assistance in the institutional service of long-term care. Let me also mention that we welcome the proposaler's efforts to address one of the current shortcomings by seeking to unify the criteria for determining the needs or capacity of self-sustainment and to unify the procedures for determining the eligibility of individual rights in the area of long-term care. In the SMC Group we support the law on long-term care. Long-term care is conceived by law as a series of measures, services and activities intended for persons who, due to illness, age disability, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time, are not less than three months or who are permanently dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. Long-term care is urgently needed. We believe that we can complete the content further in the course of the procedure and thus remedy any shortcomings. In the SMC Group, we believe that the proposal for a long-term supply law is suitable for further consideration and will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Masha Kociper. It will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Slovenia, like most other European countries, is facing changes in the structure of the population and the ageing of the same population, of course. According to the European Commission's assessment, the very low fertility and consequently ageing of the population represents one of the greatest social and economic challenges of the entire old continent. Therefore, we have long known that, in view of the changes mentioned above, we will have to adapt different systems, such as the health, pension and education system and, of course, present some long-term care system that we need very much. The law that would definitively regulate this area, the area of long-term care, is the one we are waiting for. Absolutely too long. If we have reached consensus for the Personal Assistance Act, which we adopt at this meeting, in the previous term, on a long-term supply law to define and simplify the system of services and measures intended for persons who, for various reasons, are dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks, we have been talking for more than fifteen years. It is unacceptable that Slovenia does not have a comprehensive long-term care system. Long-term care, remuneration and funding are covered by healthcare structures, social and parental care, pensions and disability, and each of these forms is covered by specific legislation. We thus provide long-term care services in the form of various public services aimed at resolving long-term care through the healthcare system, social services, pension and disability protection systems and, last but not least, very important – volunteering. The situation of caring for the elderly is certainly not as regulated as it should be. Some problems, such as ensuring equal or comparable treatment of beneficiaries in ensuring affordable social protection services, spatial distress in nursing homes, long-term care, including in the covid epidemic and in the crisis that we are looking forward to, remain more than up to date. This is what the Ombudsman pointed out in his report, as we discussed at the previous point. Moreover, in the SAB, we believe that the epidemic on the one hand has shown the importance of well-functioning public health and, on the other hand, has declared all the shortcomings of our health and social welfare system, and this is particularly true for the care of the elderly. We are therefore facing many challenges in all of these areas, and we should have approached them a long time ago. We have also repeatedly highlighted the need for a rapid approach to improving the care of the elderly in our party. For example, one of our permanent requirements is that each pensioner could pay at least basic care at home for the elderly or spend his life in his home in a peaceful and dignified manner; just as he would have decided. The law before us is the first of many drafts and proposals to come to the parliamentary bench and to be addressed in the National Assembly. The fact is that all the other legislative proposals have ended before they even started, and therefore, this has to be acknowledged out loud, they bear the responsibilities of all governments that have been doing just that for years. The proposal for a long-term care law before us thus covers a series of measures aimed primarily at persons who, due to the consequences of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time, are permanently dependent on the assistance of another person and need assistance in basic daily tasks. According to the law, the long-term care system would offer institutional care, home care, family care or cash benefits. All forms of care, other than institutional care, include the right to services for strengthening and maintaining independence, and care, which also seems very important to us. Of course, from the law under discussion today, it is a clear good intention of this coalition to propose an improvement of this issue and an integrated solution to improve the status of care for the elderly. But unfortunately, it turns out it won't be enough. The law before us today is not good, and the solutions involved are unfortunately not well established. There is still too much ignorance and confusion in the proposal. In the SAB, we ask ourselves whether, in the next step, all shortcomings can be addressed. Let me just point out something for the hottest of us. Firstly, the proposal defines long-term care as a public service, while at the same time expanding the public service with the possibility of providing long-term care through contractual operators. Such a solution is inconsequential and should be reintroduced. Secondly, we estimate that all long-term care services, and not just some, should be clearly defined in the law, together with the valuation methodology, since the text we have before us allows every single minister too much discretion in deciding on the types of long-term care services. This can, of course, also affect the necessary finances in the long term. Thirdly, it is imperative to extend the transitional period of application of the law, as we strongly doubt that the law can be implemented within the proposed period of one month. I think we all agree here. And the fourth time, which is actually the most important and crucial for us, is funding. We are aware that the financial obligation imposed by law is great and will be binding on all subsequent governments regardless of when the law enters into force. In all laws that have such major financial effects, we in the SAB have consistently pointed out that we should always consider how and in what way these funds will be provided. The financial structure must be clear, tailored and consistent with all stakeholders, but above all, the respected Government and the coalition must tell people and clearly record in the bill how these finances will be implemented. Therefore, people need to be told that you will legitimize a new mandatory contribution to long-term care. This must be said clearly and loudly because of where the money will come from. Only through clear communication between all involved will the latter project be able to be completed. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we will not oppose the draft law at first reading, although we have carefully read all the comments of the interested public and that we have made a number of comments — some I have listed — on our own. For we are convinced that marriage is essential and that we have waited too long for it. However, we expect the coalition and the government to respond, in particular with its amendments, to all the concerns already raised, as has been said, by the public concerned and also to all those who will appear or have already appeared in the debate. While we will actively contribute to the improvement of this law in the SAB, we are now warning that, unless the law is very strongly amended, we will not support the law in this form in the second reading. For we do not want to end up having a marriage just so that we have it, that someone can make a hook, but we would not know how to implement it, both organisationally and financially, and would also bring further problems and complications to the caregivers and those who would like to provide it. In short, as has been said; now in the first reading of the law in the SAB, we will not object, but we expect many corrections. We will actively participate in these corrections, and only then in the second reading will we decide whether such a law is even appropriate for us to continue to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The long-awaited proposal for a law on long-term care that will ensure a uniform system of regulation in this area is today, we could say, finally on our benches. Despite Desus' long-standing warning that long-term care is urgently needed, the epidemic of the one that has shown very brutally the unregulated care of the elderly and other help needed by vulnerable groups has now been the last in line. Aging may increase the individual’s need for long - term care. Both public and private expenditure on the payment of rights and services in this area is on the rise. The proportion over 80 years of age is projected to increase to 11.4 per cent from the current 5 per cent by 2050. Therefore, statistics show that this is an area where we will face challenges in the future and we will need to look for innovative approaches. However, any system upgrade will only be possible with solid foundations, as this law should represent. The bill addresses key aspects of long-term care and defines as beneficiary a full-year person who has lost his or her independence as a result of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time and who is dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. Long-term care services include basic and support day-care services, basic day-care services and self-sustaining and self-sustainment services. Long-term care will take the form of formal care at home or in an institution. According to the needs of the tenants, the bill provides for three types of home, namely housing, care and care. A special form of long-term care will be provided by the provider of the family member who wants it, who will be able to decide on the remuneration. In addition, all beneficiaries will receive funding for services to maintain and strengthen independence and a more detailed set of these services will be set out in the sub-legislative act. The eligibility criteria for long-term care will be uniform and defined at national level. An entry point for the exercise of rights will be the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Such an important complex law, which concerns every citizen sooner or later, is expected to receive many comments and proposals. Those affected by long-term care should be allowed to be heard during the adoption phase. We therefore welcome the involvement of all stakeholders who have addressed the comments and proposals of the amendments to the National Assembly, as many speak from the experience of practice. It is right that when we talk about the care of the elderly, we should not forget to mention the sacrificing work of the volunteers, the pensioners’ societies involved in the Elderly for the Elderly. From the delivery of humanitarian packages, the delivery of hot meals, the purchase of food, housework, transportation to a doctor or pharmacy, associations and escorts, all this work is carried out by volunteers. In Desus, we believe that their work must be appreciated and their contribution further recognized. The law that is on our hands today is neither coalition nor opposition, but it is extremely important and does not allow room for any political prestige. It is therefore right for us to stand together and reach consensus on such an important issue, even if we are aware that the law has been being drawn up since 2002. Today's text is being addressed in the context of the first reading, so there is still time to improve. With this awareness and with a positive attitude and constructive attitude, we will support the law in the First reading of the Desus Group. We will support it because people, especially the elderly, urgently need it and will improve their stay and care and, on the other hand, reduce the cost of an individual. Even now, we are predicting that we will make appropriate additions in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present his position on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Minister, secretary of state, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, everyone, have a good day! Today we have a long - awaited law on long - term care. It is neither ideal nor optimal, but it is extremely important for present and future generations, so it is right to have a general debate on it. Recent data from the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development show that in Slovenia, compared with other EU members, we have one of the lowest inequalities and rates of social exclusion and the lowest risk of child poverty among all countries. At the same time, however, we record one of the highest shares of unmet health care needs and have a poorly developed long-term care system. The availability of long-term care services has thus deteriorated for many years. The fact is that a new comprehensive social security system for long-term care has been in preparation for more than 15 years. During these years, quite a few governments have changed, not only to the left, but also to the two governments of the current prime minister. Therefore, the responsibility is spread to everything and the search for the culprit is irrelevant and unproductive. Long-term care services and benefits are designed on the basis of different legislation. Long-term care is financed and implemented through several separate social protection systems governed by different laws. The main pillar remains informal care in the family circle, and the growth of needs will be accelerated due to demographic trends in the coming years, and the covida-19 epidemic has further deepened all these problems. All of these are facts that point to the need for a system-wide arrangement of long-term care and, above all, to the fact that we must go beyond the charge of each other, who is guilty, who has not yet passed the law, and strongly advocates the view that this version of the law is poor and completely useless. In this case, we will not take a step further. The purpose of the law is, therefore, to systematically and comprehensively regulate the area of long-term care and to create conditions for long-term care to be accessible, quality, safe and financially sustainable. Above all, financial sustainability is the biggest problem of the proposed legislation. Long-term care without permanent funding is introduced and the introduction of social security for long-term care is left to the successors. The proposal does not have the right source of funding, but the government is actually proposing a state-run model, which will only be managed administratively by the health treasury. With the expansion of financial policy and budgetary impoverishment that awaits us in the coming years, the budget will be difficult to withstand the projected expenditure on long-term care. We are talking about good 100 million in 2022, 164 million in 2023, as much as 285 million in 2024 and 222 million in 2025. It is only after this period that long-term care is to start from a system or social security source. That is why I am asking the Minister of Health here why the government has decided to divide the long-term care system into two parts or the toughest nuts to leave to someone else. With a multitude of inconsistencies and solutions somewhere in the future, our assessment will make it harder to reach the desired goal. At the moment, it is also unrealistic to expect that the proposed law as additional resources to finance long-term care also provides for the resources of the demographic fund. We know that the law on the demographic fund is stuck in the parliamentary procedure and there is absolutely no indication that the coalition will continue to deal with it soon. It will also be necessary to address as systematically as possible the problem of the human resources deficit with which the institutions, which are integrated into the long-term care system, are already facing today. Paramedics, nurses, social gerontologists, that's all we're gonna need. Mechanisms need to be found to include all available human resources as much as possible and to train them to provide quality and security services in long-term care. The solution to differences between social caregivers at home and those in nursing homes is unacceptable. This leads mainly to a sense of underestimation of women's work. A major flaw in the bill is that the social partners were not involved in the preparation of the material or otherwise, the law was not dealt with in the Economic and Social Council. What is positive, and we welcome this in our Group of Non-Aligned Members, is that the bill refers to all adults from the age of 18. This gives a signal that this is an obligation of society as a whole and that intergenerational solidarity is an important part of long-term care. We also welcome the fact that the proposal of the law provides different ways of exercising rights and thus different ways of responding to the needs of users; or as home care, care in an institution, as a provider of a family member who replaces and manages the institution of a family assistant, or as a cash benefit. In addition, the law introduces e-services. This range allows greater flexibility and adaptation to needs. A wide range of long-term care providers is also possible, and we point out that everyone will have to meet the same conditions for long-term care. We remind unrelated Members that implementation must remain in the public interest. It is the responsibility of the State to enable citizens to have comparable rights and to strengthen the development of a public network where needs are found to be greater than the opportunities it provides. The law needs to be improved and reconsidered in subsequent stages of the legislative process on the appropriateness of individual parts of the law and the law as a whole. It is also reasonable to take advantage of all the business possibilities under the parliamentary procedure for the proposed solutions to be processed in the widest possible dialogue with stakeholders. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, a nice greeting to all, including the others in the Chamber! The result of the work done at the Ministry of Health is excellent – of course, I am talking about the law on long-term care so that there is no mistake. It's just that it's a great grade here. We have before us, in our view, the most important law of this call by the National Assembly. It's an area that's been trying to settle for almost 20 years. There has always been a question of funding. The proposal we have on the table is good because it also regulates this area. Long-term care is regulated at systemic level. The area is now regulated by seven different laws, which means that the average citizen cannot know the scope of his rights at all. I wonder how an elder should know and defend his rights if his status is currently regulated in seven different laws. The situation on the ground is horrendous because of the prolonged conscious neglect of this area. The rise of the older population raises questions as to whether the country responds adequately to the needs of an ageing society increasingly faced with social exclusion. There will be an increasing number of older populations who will need help in their daily lives. Social exclusion is therefore a complex social phenomenon. It should be borne in mind that today's social changes require an extremely rapid adjustment to social security. Age is now increasingly a form of hidden discrimination, as age discrimination is becoming increasingly acceptable. With the proposed law, all people will have the opportunity to use the same rights, various services from the long-term care system. The law thus introduces the right to services at home, to provide family members, to receive long-term care and institutional protection. The remuneration will be allocated according to the eligibility assessment and shall not be taken into account in terms of the size of the assets. After all, it is important to ask whether we will give priority to forms of assistance in homes for the elderly or help in the home environment, or whether we will try to treat both areas equally. The law under consideration provides an opportunity for any choice of rights. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are of the view that it is necessary to ensure that the elderly remain in their loving environment as long as possible, institutional protection should be used only in the extreme case. This is a good solution, which also gives a signal outside that these are no longer objects that we have sometimes called sailboats. We support that the social protection programme can be implemented as an additional activity on the farm. It's a friendly, domestic hot environment. We advocate that complementary activities on the farm should be subject to as loose conditions as possible, as this is a home. It will be provided in a manner of quality and dignified ageing, including the well-being and respect of the individual. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	Good-bye! The Slovenian population is one of the oldest in the world, which means that more and more people need both health care and help in everyday life. Today, in Slovenia, 19.7 percent of people over 65 years of age are projected to reach 30 percent of the population in 2050. The proportion over 80 years of age will increase from 5 per cent in 2016 to 2050 to 11.4 per cent. Ageing increases the likelihood of long-term care and, of course, increases both public and private spending on the payment of rights and services in this area. The state does not yet have a system of long-term care, although it has been in the social and left governments for the last 10 years, which have talked a lot about it and have done little. From the homes of older citizens, it is recalled that in many homes they have been facing inappropriate spatial conditions and long-term infrastructure for years, which has also marked a strong response to the epidemic. The Coronavirus epidemic has shown all the weaknesses of institutional protection, which has been underinvested in over the past years, although there have been large amounts of funds on social items, but apparently left-wing social governments have dedicated it to other things, rather than for our elders and assistance. In Slovenia, partial arrangements in the area of long-term care are imprecise and are regulated in several different laws, which are then regulated by different regulations and there are different entry points and different needs assessment procedures. The new law will bring this together. The highest proportion of long-term care remains formal care in an institution based primarily on so-called health care and is not sufficiently adapted to an individual. In addition, this access varies widely across regions, especially between the urban and rural environment, which applies in particular to services in the community and at home. The idea is for older ones to stay at home as long as possible and to be able to stay there and provide them with the help they need. The law that we will adopt the Long-Term Care Act has dealt with us for years, and we have written this precisely in the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, which was adopted in this National Assembly. So we could say that the marriage has long had a beard. Since then, there have been several drafts, several versions, the last one received by this government has been number 117. The need for uniform system regulation and long-term financial sustainability in the field since 2013 is also regularly recalled in its recommendations by the European Commission, as well as by the professional and lay public. In addition, in the last year and a half during the Coronavirus epidemic, there have been shortcomings in the organisation of care for the elderly. There have also been shortcomings in the healthcare system. The Court of Auditors has also warned that in Slovenia it is not adequately cared for those who need the help of others because of age, mental and physical harm. The Confederation of Trade Unions has today stated that it opposes the law because they have not been heard, but do not say that they have left the Economic and Social Council meetings, remember that any of the previous governments of this Economic and Social Council have not organised or coordinated at all. But this time the unionists left, and now they're complaining that no one can hear them. Long-term care represents a series of measures, services and activities aimed at persons who, due to the consequences of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time, are not less than three months, or are permanently dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. Thus, the key objectives of the proposal for a long-term care law are, in particular, the following. First, it is precisely defined or defined as what long-term care is. Secondly, the legal basis governing long-term care rights is being consolidated. Thirdly, the content and scope of rights and the set of long-term care services are defined. Fourthly, a single assessment mechanism is in place to enter the long-term care system. Fifthly, a comprehensive, universally accessible, geographically and financially sustainable and accessible long-term care system is being developed. Six, the beneficiary wishing to do so, shall be allowed to remain in the home environment as long as possible with appropriate assistance. Week, a person shall be placed at the centre of a long-term care system who chooses, within his or her right, a way of carrying out long-term care. Eighthly, in this way we will manage the growing private financing of individuals, which increases the risk of poverty mainly by the older population. Ninthly, planning, management and quality assurance, safety and efficiency of the provision of long-term care as a public service is improving. And for the tenth time, effective public oversight is being established in the area of long-term care management. The law will be introduced gradually and will be based on four pillars: institutional care, home care, monetary allowance and family member care provider. The first two pillars are already in operation and will operate immediately in the beginning, while the cash supplement and the provider of the family member are expected to live in 2024. Until the Law on Compulsory Insurance for Long-Term Care is implemented in 2025, the difference between the existing resources and the necessary resources will be covered by the State budget. If you look at how this is arranged in other countries in the explanation of the law, these costs are covered in many countries by the budget, especially in the richer Scandinavian countries, so it will certainly be necessary to find additional resources. Sursa's latest official data for 2018 show that EUR 547 million has been earmarked for the long-term supply area, 5.1 per cent more than in 2017. The main source of funding for the current regime is public resources, but in recent years there has also been an increase in the share of private funding at the expense of reducing the share of public funding. In the SDS Group, we will support the law on long-term care, and further improvements are expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The positions of the Members of the group List Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	We have before us a law that, according to the title, everyone in this country can look forward to. Sadly, though, the truth is that only the title, not the law itself and the content itself, applies. That's about it: you go to the store, you buy a car, and you find out it's not a steering wheel. You say nothing, so I'm gonna go and buy a spare wheel. And when you buy a steering wheel, thinking you're gonna put it on the car, because it's one of the important tools to make the car move left and right, you find you have nowhere to put it, because it didn't lead. He's just gone, and you find out he's a useless car, you've had an expense with a steering wheel, and you can take him to the junkyard. Well, that's about how this law is made up, because the one who really read it, but really read it, not just a short note, if you, how wonderful and beautiful it is, will be able to find out that the marriage is a guest and, above all, a guest in the concept of something otherwise beautiful to say, but do not say how and how. That he is simply inconsequential, inconsequential, inconsequential in individual wishes written in the law itself, and of course, more importantly, he eventually becomes very likeable. Most of all, he is pleased that he is talking about a matter that we all really want, and we expect from it enormously, and we have been talking about long-term care in the National Assembly for the last 20 years — even ours, those predecessors. In the end, we can only find out that this is another missed opportunity. This law can't be fixed. This law cannot be regulated primarily because it basically speaks of something being settled later, with another law, with another government, with some other concepts. Please, this is not the way to deal with a matter that we actually already have, but in fact we never have to deal with it completely. I'm talking about long-term care. If this law, in black with amendments, is adopted, it is more than clear that it will be the same as today, nothing will be different, at least until 2025, because we have everything that will apply now. We have homes, we have home care institutions, we have individual companies, we have individuals who help people, the only thing that holds that this is not yet regulated by some supervision or indirectly, but with other work-law or professional inspections. Of course, this law, as we have already spoken this week, and the Minister is today at the beginning – thank you very much for coming after not knowing how many months for the first time in the National Assembly for the plenary session – we have found that in fact, at least the Minister claims that this law will now be for everyone. This marriage is not for everyone. It is true that the free limit is 65, but from nothing to 18 this law does not speak. It does not even speak of the conflict between two different areas, personal assistance and long-term care, which now overlaps with the rights conferred, literally in some cases. How are we gonna handle this? It is more than clear that in the National Assembly, among other things, behind this counter, we have made it very clear to the Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens that we will accept personal assistance temporarily, in order to resolve the difficulties of the people who need it, and that when the long-term care law comes to pass, we will include this in the long-term care law with one purpose: that this will be regulated by one law and that it will also be transparent, what rights and who, when, where, how, how does it enter into these rights. And in the end, how will we even settle all these rights with the bill? It can be free, but it can never be free. And since these are the rights that they will mainly pay and are already being paid today, people should also have the right to say something about this law when it is adopted. Today we read, at first we heard that the shareholders were present and that they were actively involved in the drafting of this law. Then I wonder why these different stakeholders today report in the media that this law should be rejected. One of the major trade unions today made it clear that this law should be repealed because it is not even harmonised with the ESF. How the ESF works is primarily the responsibility of the government first. The government is the one who is really the strongest among these three partners. There is no ESS because of government proposals, there is no government because of the ESF, and the government must make every effort to make this change, of course. The silver thread, a non-governmental organization of the elderly, makes it very clear that it is not even nearly the law that regulates rights or in some way what an older generation needs most is not just for them. In addition, of course, we all wonder about this law, because it writes so beautifully where we will get these people, where the people are, where the norms are, which would, of course, also regulate the rules of the game for these people. No! No! With this law, we just told them where these people fit in. We told them that they fit into the lowest pay grade – possible – and we are talking about this, of course, even the basis is the minimum wage, and then the timers, how much they can earn and where they belong. This, of course, says more than clearly that these people will be very difficult to get for such responsible, difficult, not only physically, but also psychologically hard work. According to an assessment of the Institute for Economic Development, which was working in 2016, a serious professional analysis, which this law practically overlooks, would be needed if we wanted to launch a long-term supply in full swing, over 2,000 people. However, we are missing only in the field of health care according to the data available to us today, a huge number of health care personnel, not only in the social welfare field. Nobody knows how we're gonna handle these things. Moreover, in the end it is of course very important, as I said, how we will pay for this question. It is true that all countries deal differently with the issue of financing long-term care; some by their abilities or wealth, while others by their sustainability, in order to be able to carry out long-term care. However, just as the view is presented on how we will pay for this long-term provision of this law, it is appropriate that we only ask ourselves which model will eventually come into force. This government has actually enjoyed a sort of clever trick. She has decided to say that she is and that she supports long-term care, how it will work, but she doesn't really care. This will be regulated once by 2025. Whoever does this doesn't say, or how, because he knows there's an election at the door. And before the elections, tell voters that they will have to give a good piece of the family budget a month, not a year, out of their pocket, not one year before retirement, which means, as we have today, simply spoken of as an understandable language, supplementary health insurance. So, compulsory long-term care insurance, whatever it's called, will come from the hands of the people. Of course it's not in the marriage. What will the rights look like? Justice will look like what I said at the beginning, that they will define what they are, and then they will do a dot and there will be no answer, because everything else will be governed by the rules. You are well aware that the Constitutional Court has already ruled and ruled several times, not least for the famous Health and Health Insurance Act, where it has made clear: all rights must be defined in the law, so that everyone can understand what rights belong to him. They cannot be arranged by means of submarital acts, but fewer so that they are decided by various congregations or individuals. The law has more than made it clear that it will be decided on a daily basis by the competent minister. However, as it will be decided on the divisional rights, I will call them dividing rights, because one thing will be decided by the municipalities, the other things by the Ministry of Labour, the third things by the Ministry of Health; in short, things are completely misplaced. Local communities. They are tasked with new tasks, but they are not told by this law where we will get the money for how they will get it, who will pay for it. Large municipalities, Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper, Celje, bigger – still somehow, small municipalities do not have this money. They just don't have it. Some of you may boast that the average has risen. But the average did not rise due to long-term care, but it did rise because of the existing tasks of the local community. So, what are we going to finance with? Hence, the associations of the city’s congregations, all three associations, have made it very clear that things are unclear how this will be financed. Moreover, they point to one very big threat that this government loves very much, especially because they have a party that declares that it has one of the best neoliberalist economic programmes, and who wants and says that the entire market will be regulated in this country, it is more than clear that some want to get as much into private hands as possible in this area. Already foreign companies enter the Slovenian market in the area of long-term care. This law only allows them to do so. Let me say at the end of my intro, we'll say more in the debate itself that it's a semi-product. The product is usually intended in the economy to be sold to another economic operator who will use it for the product. But we think about it, and we're sure it's enough if it's just a semi-manufacturer. I'm sorry, this marriage can't even be fixed by amendments because it lacks key content. The key content is: who and how will we pay for this long-term care, how will we provide the staff, how will we regulate the rights and, finally, what this network will look like for long-term care at all. If this government had a serious purpose, a sincere intention, to arrange for long - term care, which I had hoped and, finally, wanted to arrange for it, it would have come by law, including with all the submarital acts, to know what we were talking about. At the same time, remember, it will be necessary to change, as always when we talk about this area, the Health Insurance and Health Act, which does not know such long-term care at all and therefore needs to be amended. We will not support this law in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have been engaged in the introduction of a new long-term care system for almost 20 years. The key problem is, of course, that we still do not have a functioning long-term care system. As in the previous government, this current government has drafted a law that does not deal with this issue definitively. The government is proposing a temporary model of financing long-term care from the state budget, health and pension funds. There is no valid reason for such financing. The ruling coalition simply avoided resolving a key issue that obviously does not have a clear answer with the proposed temporary funding model. Therefore, the Ministry's motion for a law submitted by the Ministry of Health to the public debate last August included a proposal for compulsory social security for long-term care. It is more than obvious that this ruling coalition is also unable to agree on a permanent source of funding for long-term care. Instead, the government now offers only the promise that compulsory social security will be settled in 2025. We are concerned that the proposed temporary solution to funding will also become permanent. A comprehensive and lasting regulation of the financial issue is crucial, especially because the level of financial resources also depends on the volume of allowances available to long-term service users. It is not possible to understand from the draft law before us which services will be available to users and to what extent. Today, we can only guess about the details of long-term care rights and predict how they will be regulated in the rules, which is unacceptable for us because rights must be regulated by law. We also believe that the proposal for a law does not constitute a comprehensive and integrated long-term care that would provide both for the health and the social and psychological needs of the elderly. The law does not provide such care that the elderly will not only be provided with bare survival but also with a quality of life in silver years. The emphasis on health care is particularly reflected in the fact that the eligibility of long-term care services, which are of a more social nature, will be decided by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which deals with health services and has only indirect contact with users of services. The proposed abolition of the aid and service allowance, which is otherwise regulated under the law governing pension and disability insurance, is also insufficient and inadequate. The right to supplement is the legal right of insured persons based on paid social contributions on which insured persons rightly expect to be entitled to it, provided that they comply with the conditions laid down in advance. The simple deletion of this right resulting from compulsory social insurance constitutes a violation of the constitutionally guaranteed rights, which are also incriminating. To the extent that the ruling coalition accepts the abolition of the aid and service allowance, the State will point out to a number of actions to recover the rights acquired from pension and disability insurance, as well as a possible constitutional complaint, and the insurers will have to recover their rights on a long and expensive trial basis. In the event of termination of the aid and service allowance, the most affected will be the blind and visually impaired. As the fastest-growing Member State in the European Union, we have a marked problem in this area of long-term care. We are running out of places in nursing homes, and the home aid system is customarily arranged by the congregations and is equally accessible. Investment and services are at least EUR 250 million a year short. We are also short of the staff mentioned today, which, due to poor working conditions, prefer to do similar work in Austria or Italy, or rather find another job that is not related to the care and care of the elderly. The situation has deteriorated radically from year to year due to the rapid ageing of the population and disease. The bill only gives the impression that it offers solutions to problems related to an ageing society. Because of all outstanding solutions, we believe that the implementation of such a law in practice will cause more problems and the effects of the laws could be quite contrary. If the bill comes into second reading, we will require the Social Democrats to clearly regulate the financing of long-term care by introducing intergenerational and solidarity social security, where everyone will contribute as far as possible. We also expect the Long-Term Care Act to clearly define a basket of rights that will represent integrated long-term care. We will also propose retaining the aid allowance and service at least for the blind and visually impaired. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is an extremely important law which, according to the manner we agreed on in this society years ago and which was in force more or less until last year, should have been given wider social debate. At least what it is should be addressed in the Economic and Social Council. We can't, we can't afford to make such important decisions in this country with the vote of the majority alone. Let us reconsider, and even such a law, which does not have a financial backdrop, is not adopted a few months before the elections. On the basis of all these reasons, we will vote against the law, because the law, which merely promises to solve problems in the future or in the rules that are not yet ready, of course, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, hello! Long-term care is something you as a society can and we have to afford. Not only because of demographic change, but because we as a society bear responsibility to everyone and to everyone. Therefore, it is important that long-term care is financed in solidarity, i.e. through contributions that burden income proportionally, and where capital, i.e. employers, contributes its share. It is important that, in the event that long-term care cannot be fully covered by contributions, the provision is co-financed by the state budget, as it does, in the case of pension funds. It is important that the provision of long-term care is part of a public service where there are clear standards, clear parameters, clear standards, where there is no outsourcing of services and the price of labour, where there is no exaggeration and where there is no wealth at the expense of cheap labour and lowering supply standards where there is no superstandard service for privileged and most powerful. It is important that long-term care is universally available at user level, that services are at the same level and that full equality between users is ensured; thus, equal availability, equal accessibility, equal accessibility and the same quality of services – for all. And now to the current government's so-called solution to the problem of long-term care. First time. The proposed law does not systematically and permanently regulate the financing of long-term care, but it places it on another law, now a non-existent law. It's supposed to be accepted in the future. Implementation is left to market players, which means increasing competition, meaning the entry of foreign multinationals, which means lowering standards and quality of supply. The law provides for the enforcement of the supply workforce and for additional espection. Such a law can only make the situation of the elderly and others in need of long-term care worse. It may also exacerbate the situation of workers and further distort the range of rights acquired, in particular women who represent the main guardianship staff. The law also had a negative impact on the health and pension allowance, with unions and professionals in the traditional manner of the government of Janez Janša, of course, was not harmonised. The point which raises the most dust in the area of developing a long-term supply strategy is certainly its funding. Below the line; the current proposal in this area provides for the following major problems and does not address the financing of long-term care. Firstly, the absence of a systemic and long-term source of funding. Second, a transfer to the future government. Thirdly, the threat to existing public cash registers. Financing long-term care is the point where all attempts to establish the system have failed so far. Yanshe's government is solving the problem by ignoring it. The law provides for the adoption by 2024 of a subsequent, special law regulating insurance for and financing long-term care. This compulsory insurance is intended to cover services of long-term care and payment obligations would be identical to those of compulsory health insurance contributions. But we're not there yet. Until then, long-term care should be financed from the State budget, the demographic fund, the European Union budgets and donations and other resources. In addition, it is envisaged that long-term care is also financed from transferred funds from the pension and health allowance in the meantime. This provision is in fact very or most problematic. For the first time, because it is an asset, for health care and pensions, secondly because there is no assessment of what this will mean for both cash registers at all, and thirdly, because the health department does not have a budget protector at all, which means that we can throw it into additional squabbles. Cherries at the top of the cake: with all the above, of course, it should be added that it is not clear from the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 whether this money is actually provided in the budget. The law on long-term care, which we have on rations, respected colleagues and colleagues, is an account without a tavern. The area of care is pressed in the market corner and the survival of employees, suppliers and suppliers is questioned. Until long-term legal proposals reflect social solidarity, they will not reflect collective responsibility towards everyone and everyone, regardless of their or their position, we will oppose them in Levica. This time, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Micah Kordish has the word to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Law on Long - Term Care, which finally came on the bench of the National Assembly; the Law on Long - Term Care, which is not the case, is essentially a law on the privatisation of safe age. This is an interesting anchor around which the legal provisions of this hard-to-see law are built: privatisation of the care of the elderly. And for this purpose, we find everything in the law: from private corporations that work and manage homes for the elderly and these services to be fat — profitable as a business — caregivers and their families are charged, and the forms of espection, that is to say, overpaid work in the care of the elderly, is not sufficiently acute, as is the case in the nursing homes of the elderly, among nurses and nurses. People are getting out of our system. What does the government of John Janša offer them? No better payment, even taking away their job security. What's not in this law and what's been the downfall where 117 times the long-term supply law has been jammed is funding. The force irresponsible to draw up a law with such long-term consequences as long-term care is to be brought to the National Assembly without the provision of funding, dedicated resources which the safe age certainly needs. Slovenia, as an older society in its institutional framework, is unable to provide funding for the homes of the elderly, care at home and everything else, but instead of acting responsibly, it has provided these resources with solidarity transfers – that is to say, by making contributions, taxes where there is too much, with the rich, with capital, and that is to say where the social need is, in a given case, the care of the elderly – it is simply made that this problem does not exist and that it all goes to the next government and to the social treasury. Undoubtedly, it is one of the secondary objectives pursued by this privatising government that is to put public cash into difficulty. Part of the financing of long-term care without system-controlled resources, which should remain as a work and unfulfilled duty for one of the following governments, is simply the reversal of the cost of health allowance; a health treasury which, unlike pension allowance, does not have its own so-called budget protector installed. If there's money running out of medical bills, it means there won't be an intervention. If there is a shortage of money in the health register, it means that waiting types will be extended, and not least, if there is a shortage of money in the health register, it means that the doors to the policy are open wide to narrow down the basket of health rights, an idea that has been flowing happily through parliamentary towers since the current government's term of office. But let's start at the beginning with long-term care providers. The absence of financial work as that central element of the debate on long-term care opens up the possibility of a discussion focusing on what long-term care is and how it should be implemented, as if this negligence and accountability of the government had actually done a service here; the left-hand service itself, and the concept of long-term care were quite good. Since we do not discuss where and how long - term care will be financed, since this is not in the marriage, except that something will eventually be settled under the next government, then we can talk about how long - term care is in itself without financial work at all. At the outset, we see that the concept of the long-term care law, as we have on the table, is focused on liberalisation and privatisation, within this concessionary form of long-term care, irreconcilability and accountability to the rules that are different from the institution to the institution, and the question of what will be written in them, but of course precaration and social dumping in particular in the area of the implementation of the provider of the family member. Let us begin our public service in the area of long - term care. Article 3(1) provides that the public service shall be carried out in a non-profit manner and within the framework of a public long-term supply network, in such a way that the excess of revenue over expenditure is spent and spent on the provision and development of long-term care. That's a good provision, a man would even support it if he didn't come up with a dead letter on paper right away. More specifically, in the second paragraph of Article 3, which states that regardless of the above provisions, long-term care may also be provided — beware of this! — other legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and natural persons who carry out the activity independently if authorised. This authorisation shall be issued either by the Ministry of Health or by the Ministry of Labour, depending on the form of care and the institution. By the way, already at this formal level of fragmentation on two different institutions, we see how very inappropriate this concept is and that it is primarily driven by political pyar and general appetites after privatisation, which are then poorly immersed in legal provisions. In short, back to content. This law allows for the full liberalisation and privatisation of supply delivery, which can lead only and only to a reduction in the quality and accessibility of supply, but, of course, to the extermination of the workforce. Exactly the same can be seen in every area of society, whether we are talking about economic activities or, for example, solidarity systems such as the public health system. What happened there or is still going on with liberalisation and privatisation? Yes, waiting periods are increasing, costs are flying into the sky, self-payment is increasing, quality of treatment is deteriorating. Those who work in health care and can be called a medical proletariat run away from it. Excesses or not surpluses, and the funds are available either to private individuals or to mandarins that have de facto privatised public institutions. Why, then, should anything else be involved in caring for the elderly? The question is rhetorical. The answer is no. That's exactly what's gonna happen. The government of Janez Janša intends that the homes of the elderly and other forms of long - term care will be governed by corporate logic and will manage them for profit. Thank you! No thanks, on behalf of every old man who can't afford this kind of care. We can recall that, in the previous term, the proposaler of this law, or the Ministry of Labour of Nova Slovenija, convened a meeting on the quality of the care of the elderly in the previous term, because, beware, in one of the private homes, the elderly received completely inappropriate meals and inappropriate food. The new Slovenia, which today so strongly advocates the privatisation of the care of the elderly, has been calling meetings and explaining here a few years ago, but look, here we have a private home, how mistreatment of the elderly they have in their care. Of course, they did not draw consistent conclusions, but we helped them then. Yes, of course, if the care of the elderly is guided by profit logic, then this means reducing costs, reducing costs on the quality of care of the elderly, reducing costs on the fair remuneration of employees, the appropriate number of these employees who carry out long-term care or care, and so on. This is simply a capitalist logic in a place where capitalist and market logic should not be! People work their whole lives, invest in society, contribute to our collective progress, and they expect them at their old age — what? Private corporations that rely on and save on them. A wider set of performers, as we know them at this time, is another topic that I would like to discuss. As you may have calculated from my debate so far, long-term care providers under this law can be virtually everyone, it is said, an area wide open to the entry of foreign corporations, of course heavily equipped with millions, even billions of capital from abroad, with which they can raise all other competition. Then, in Article 58, paragraph 6, we also provide that a long-term service provider may include a contractor within this supply – in translation, privatisation within privatisation. I'm going to lean back on, for example, the public health system. What's going on with contract contractors like this? Outsourcing, outflow of funds, usually referred to as corruption, the creation of the internal market, livestock farming, the extension of waiting species, and then people are not coming to work because it is a more lucrative contractual exercise of activities instead of performing their basic service and so on. However, those employees who will not be in such institutions at the head of the care of the elderly may, in a new way, be subject to some cost logic and to employees in a criminal relationship that we cannot call a working relationship as independent entrepreneurs, in fact, underpaid proletarians. The question arises why this law even regulates the field of concessions. Because everything else is written around concessions in such a way that some individuals under this law do not really need concessions. They have friends in the government of Janez Janša, they will give them money, and now they will have long-term care, and the drink will be paid by citizens and citizens. So why even bother with concessions and in this way, as the government has done, the proponent of this law? In addition to showing people in this country how very incapable you are of bringing together even basic legal provisions. For example, during the duration of the concession relationship only non-essential changes to the concession contract are allowed. Okay. Then, during these nonessential changes, for example, we find a change of location. You really don't think it's a significant change in location if an institution moves from an apartment to an elderly home, from an elderly home to a hotel, and similar stories. This is read as a lobbyist provision in order to make it even easier for some of your friends to come to public funds, even long-term care de facto cannot be implemented. Exactly as is the case with private schools at the higher level, where we have a bunch of small private higher education institutions in public finances that hold lectures in hotel dining rooms. That's about how I understand your concession clause. During minor non-essential changes, it also continues to modify the responsible long-term care provider, without the law even defining who or what this responsible institution is, nor in the latter form determining the duration of the concessional relationship. So, as we saw, once again, the case of health care, in 2006, under the first government of Janez Janša, we saw the signing of concessions overnight, the granting of concessions for an indefinite period of time, so that they could not be cancelled. The same is supposed to happen now in the care of the elderly. Corporate power and corporate profits at the expense of the elderly without limitation on the duration of the mandate. These are your concession contracts that you write in your marriage. We have seen the same logic at work already under the Ministry of the Bricker-King, which, at the last invitation for an additional thousand beds in the homes of the elderly, opened the door to private people, even those who could under no circumstances reach public funds. Major players, private corporations in this area have already been awarded lucrative jobs and profit opportunities in the previous call. In this second round, four companies are also re-established among the applicants. I'm setting up my mask and my hat that they're friends of Janez Janša who have no idea of long-term care. Perhaps the most tangible thing that people can understand and understand directly is the cost of caring at home. More precisely, the difference on average is how much people pay in this country for care in a public home and in a private home. The difference is 160 euros. Thus, staying in the private homes of the elderly can only afford a narrow, already privileged group of pensioners with very high pensions. The poor majority of pensioners, and that's the majority of them, but it's not. For them, the costs are passed on to their families, while the rich through active life can also enjoy luxury at their old age, and we will get a two-tier system: a charter for the poor, luxurious hotels for the rich. But that's not all we can get after that Top Shop commercial. It's like everything I just told you isn't enough. The law provides for three types of institutional protection: housing, care and nursing homes. Now, watch out; it's legal that the current nursing homes of the elderly will change into nursing homes, and then we have the other two guys, who we don't even know where they came from, what they should look like, what that means and so on. But something was put inside the marker level in the marriage and the pensioners could go quietly to paint. After what we can read here, I know you'll deny it, but after what the law says, it seems that anyone who has about a solid container will be able to get a concession for a residential unit with some observation, and friends in the government of Janez Janša. And the government will either go to the elections or explain how many fine accommodations it has arranged before the elections. Yeah, yeah! Then, in these abundant containers, espouses will work, bribed, and the owner will draw public funds. So in Levica we strongly oppose the law by which the care of the elderly would really be undermined, the costs would go up, the accessibility and quality of the service would fall down, while the problems in the waiting lines – we have 12,000 elderly waiting for a bed in the elderly’s homes – they simply accumulate, the drink is paid by the elderly, their families and the state budget. This is not in the public interest or in the interest of a safe age, so I will conclude exactly as I started. This is not a law on long-term care, this is a law for privatization of safe age.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare Moica Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I suggest we go back to real life, to the real world. Privatisation of Age — An Interesting Word Connection. And the fact is that those who do not have concrete solutions then break up the proposed solution with a rhetorical exercise. Long-term care is certainly an extremely, extremely complex issue. I do not criticize anyone who has put only one stone in good faith and willingly invested in this mosaic, which is called long - term care. If this area were so simple, then I guess we'd have this law 20 years ago, but it's not. This marriage is not ideal either, and no marriage is ideal. Parliament and the government have the opportunity to optimize the law; the law is a living thing, changing from year to year. and that is why the National Assembly is here, so we have governments monitoring the implementation of laws and then proposing improvements. If we wait for a marriage today, and any one of us, all 90, will say, and this is the perfect marriage, ladies and gentlemen, we will wait two thousand years. Telling and appreciating Minister Janez Cigler to the King of New Slovenia and New Slovenia and the Government that he is doing some privatisation, see, this is so out of the question that I simply cannot find a comparison. If the 140 million money the Government has provided for the public sector is public institutions, if this is privatisation, then someone here in this room does not understand what privatisation is. If there is 2 billion and 93 million money provided by the law adopted by this State Council for Public Health for the public health system, the privatisation of health, then someone here in this Chamber does not understand what privatisation is. If the government, the coalition, provides around 120 million after many years of public school vacuums, for public primary schools, because this is 10 years and it has not yet been privatised, then someone in this Chamber has no idea what privatisation is. And I don't know why I'm worried – you can say what you care about – but I'm worried about how the Kulovks will run the government if you've already got Levika running the boat today and you haven't learned anything from the warnings of Comrade Marjan. The journey, 20 years after the Minister's words, is finally continuing after the navigation of the parliamentary procedure. We will help this law, this way of this law, to achieve its purpose. For some, even for us in New Slovenia, 20 years of coordination, indecisiveness, lack of political will is too long. The thunderbolts will require another 20 years, and many generations of citizens and citizens of our country, who need long-term care, will fall into grace and mercy. That's the whole reality. Thunderbolts who, by the way, don't even understand what the social market model of the economy means. But I am happy and here in some optimism I see the continuation of this path, that even through rational political competition I hear statements, for example, the law on long-term care is the most important law in this reference to the National Assembly. I continue here in this area. I continue and express my satisfaction that the Heads of Member States on the European Council last 21 July have agreed on the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021 to 2027 and the Recovery Instrument. Slovenia has negotiated an outstanding EU funding framework. The agreement provides extensive additional funding for Slovenia to facilitate recovery after the covid-19 crisis. I personally understand this agreement as one of the most important in recent years within the European Union, to which I am often and increasingly very critical. Here Europe has actually remembered its roots, this is solidarity. On this basis, the Government adopted a National Recovery and Resistance Plan on 28 April. It is EUR 1.8 billion in grants and a good 700 million in repayments or loans. In the Recovery and Resistance Plan, Slovenia identified development areas with relevant reforms and investments that will contribute to mitigating the negative economic and social impacts, the social effects of the covida-19 epidemic, and prepare the country for the challenges posed by the green and digital transition. Perhaps he overlooked a number of things that I have just mentioned that in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, governments or countries also had to present reform measures. When we look at the picture of how the Recovery and Resistance Plan works, it is based on reform measures. Here, in this Recovery and Resistance Plan in the development areas and components of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, these reforms are in fact also listed in the health and social security development area, which consists of health, social security and long-term care and housing policy. Here the country has committed itself to doing long-term care or, if you want, to care for the elderly to take reform measures. As one of these, I see this very law. I can't imagine what the next government will do or what excuses it will look for if, say, we don't implement this reform because we are actually implementing it for the next government. Then simply this money for the health sector, for the social sector, will not be. I do not want this to happen to our citizens and citizens, but I am pleased to conclude this part with regard to the recovery and resistance plan, that on 1 July, on the day of the start of Slovenia's Presidency to the Council of the European Union, the European Commission lit a green light on the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Our common desire is to create the conditions of long-term care law that long-term care will be accessible, accessible, quality and safe and that no one will be overlooked during the lifetime of life when we become dependent on the help of another person. For many years, the entire Slovenian political spectrum has been saying that Slovenia is too rich to be overlooked. That's our common phrase if you want. It's true, no one can stay behind, no one can be ignored. That is why we, in New Slovenia, announced our commitment at the time of joining the government and recorded that caring for the elderly is our key priority. Of course, when we talk about the law on long - term care, we are not just thinking about the elderly. Finally, the irregular treatment of the elderly in Slovenia was criticised or pointed out by many institutions, the European Commission and so on. In the Republic of Slovenia, the area of long-term care is not even terminologically defined, in fact in any regulation or in the strategic and implementing documents. When we talk about long-term care, we are based on the international definition of long-term care, the authors of which are probably relevant: the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Eurostat, the World Health Organization and so on. The rules governing the areas and rights which, according to the international definition of long-term care, could be regarded as long-term care are currently regulated in a number of regulations in the Slovenian legal order. Different services and recipients are provided under existing social protection pillars. Persons who are found to be in need of assistance in meeting basic and supporting daily tasks may choose between services at home or in institutional forms, where the content of services at home and in the institution differs or may also receive cash benefits from this address. Long-term care must be a general right, regardless of personal, social circumstances, and accessible to everyone who needs it. This is one of our key objectives. We will be pleased if the law experiences the continuation of the parliamentary procedure on the competent working body. I am grateful in advance to all those in good faith, with knowledge and sincerity, to propose amendments to improve this law, which, once again, is not awkward for me to say, is not ideal because no marriage is ideal. And if the amount of goodwill is not government support, it is about doing something good for those for whom this law is written. This law is not written for this government, nor for this coalition. Maybe sometime, of course. This law has been written for those who have been in need of long - term care for perhaps 30 years. Our support for this law is assured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. I guess I was misunderstood. I think it is clear from my debate that the Left on the revenue side advocates solidarity and fair contributions for long-term care. Something that is not in this law, because there is no finances in this law at all, is a financial stumbling block, which is why we have not received the long-term care law at all. How does the government of Janez Janša handle this? Yes, so that only the financing of long-term care is thrown out of the law. And then what was left in this marriage? Espei for nurses, nurses, and privatized care for the elderly, from which three foreign corporations will earn money! Thank you. No thanks, your long-term care is a farce! The Long-Term Care Act is a law for the privatisation of safe age.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I don't know where to start after all this. For 20 years, we've all been listening, some of you are also speaking, talking about the need for long-term care. Even today in the position of the Left, we were able to hear, so it was said that long - term care could and must be afforded. So if we all agree, I don't know what the step is – I think what the problem is. However, it is essential if it is not different, unless it has been possible in the 20s to agree on how to arrange the supply, and therefore funding, it is necessary to take two steps. I think it's better to walk in step than we've been creaking for 20 years and not get anywhere. This bill, which came finally after these years in the parliamentary bench, lays the groundwork for the final regulation of long-term care. All these foundations, which, I don't know, are a uniform assessment of beneficiaries, comparable rights for comparable needs, options for choosing a way of using, all that is mentioned in the law, for many years over various versions have been prepared by different governments and different ministries and with content alone, I must say that there are no significant differences. Therefore, I do not know that some of you who have been involved in this work years ago are now speaking ill of the same content of the law. The fact that we're going to need more personnel, I hope that we've all been aware of this together, all the time, we've been aware that there's going to be more personnel. Those of us on or on the Labour Committee, including health care, but mostly on the Labour Committee, also on the Petitions Commission, have already had a number of meetings on the status of family assistants in a bad situation. This is also regulated in this law. As I said earlier, the law – if it is adopted, I hope that it will go, that it will also be finally adopted and that today or Tuesday, when we vote, will go through this first reading – will in this first step, in the first two years, so in 2022 and 2023 it will immediately help all those who are now in their homes, and they or their relatives pay quite a difference for the price of homes, and for all those who have really poorly regulated status as family helpers. [[…]] They will then become suppliers of a family member, their remuneration will be as high as 120 percent of the minimum wage now, their assets, or they will no longer be so low on property as they are now. The congregations will also be burdened. More than once, it has been said that new financial obligations are imposed on the congregations, and this is not true because the congregations will also pay less for people in pension homes, i.e. for those who do not have relatives. They will also have fewer costs with family assistants, even less co-financing of this assistance at home, which is now co-financed. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It is true, however, that if 20 years could not be agreed on, I myself was a little in one government a little in the other and in both of them it was said that something people would have to pay in order to be able to finance all these services. But for now, as we say, in 2022 and 2023, it will finance and help those who are already housed and those family helpers. Then it is necessary to find or really adopt this law on compulsory financing of long - term care so that other services can be brought to life, that is, formal care at home and monetary income. However, until this mandatory financing law is passed, it clearly states that the services will be covered by the budget. Together, we have also received some comments from people, especially regarding the appendix for help and service by the blind. This is where we're talking. As I said, this is the first reading, we will look together, we have already spoken with the ministries, and some improvements will be sought. So I believe it's not all concrete, just like it says now. I would only warn myself that we must not make such a mistake with these especies as it did with a personal assistant. This is where you need to be careful. But I'm only going to say it one last time, because today really doesn't make sense more substantively, if we don't go gradually, we're going to lose again and we're going to be creaking on the spot for more than 20 years. And so if we waited with this personal assistance for this marriage, we wouldn't have it today. But yesterday after three years of implementation, almost three years of implementation have already improved the law. So I am in favour of going one step at a time, and whatever government will be in the next, everyone knows and realizes that some contribution will be needed for people. I heard it, like I said, in one government and another. And it will have to be found so that all the services provided in the law can then be brought to life. However, it is essential that immediate help be given to those who now pay a lot in their retirement homes for their parents, including the congregations, and to all those who are working under very poor conditions as family helpers. And we can help them with that by the year 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare Dusan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. In opening, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law, the matter under regulation, is a long-term care, necessary and welcome. However, to finally get to the table, it is not so much the credit of this government, but from outside Europe, for which Europe has also offered us substantial resources within the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which has emerged as a result of the awareness that countries must properly regulate this area if we are to achieve some stability in society. In fact, society, every community, from family, neighborhood, cities, countries, nation, is based on solidarity and justice. And it is also some solidarity and righteousness toward those of us who are either elderly, disabled, and so on, to take care of them in an appropriate way. This knowledge has prevailed in Europe, thank God, I will say, despite NSI, which still insists that everything must be privatised and so on. The law was already before us last year, in 2020. Maybe some of you have already forgotten, right? But he didn't go into parliamentary procedure, but he was withdrawn. Why was he withdrawn? Anyone else know why he was removed? Because there was too little privatisation in there — at the request of NSI, when it was so loud today. But I also welcome, on the other hand, the words of a gentleman from NSI who said that the law could be finalized. Therefore, we will not oppose this first reading in the SAB, but we will oppose it further if they do not take into account the many and clever comments already on the table. We actually have what I know. Come on. [[…]] [[…]] This law is, if you look at it – I have been following it since the beginning, because I work in both committees dealing with this area, namely in health care, the Health Committee, and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which I have also led for a while. And we've had a lot of discussions about it. Look, marriage is hard for me to read and not understand. Seriously. I'm a lawyer, I stress again, I've done laws, drafts and so on. We also have some laws that apply, which I have prepared, but in my previous life — not now — I have to say lately. But I'm sure this marriage really needs one cleansing. I think that, like in the PIC, it would be necessary to define individual concepts at the outset in order for suppliers to be able to know what rights they are doing. Who's gonna get out of this? I'll tell you that none. Ask anyone on the street, he'll have no idea if he reads it. He's seriously complicated and he's too heavy. He's got a lot of problems with nomotech. What they have to provide and help at home is, say, blind, visually impaired, I take one concrete case which is about the same thing, which we have talked about the last time about assistance, to enable this man to live alone and integrate, which is a matter of PPIZ, namely, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and for which people have paid, so come up with irresistible rights as such in the law written, we simply abolish it by 152 and 152 in this law. It's impossible, people, we can't joke! The law is going down right now, and I'll tell you, the next day, it's going down. The Constitutional Court would also take this as a priority. So don’t joke, let’s now try to actually purify it, make the marriage readable and not distorted by our legal order – which we have already adopted and are causing us enormous problems. And it seems to me that this law has come about, even though it has been 20 years in which these parties have been in power for more than 10 years in a coalition and opposition only 7 years in that when some people point to and say it, it does not work together, at least if we look at the actual coalitions and who ruled and who were the prime ministers of the government. Looks like it's still Ade, it's been translated from the Ministry to the Ministry, and I know that somewhere in the translation, the matter is lost and that it's difficult matter, but I still have a feeling that since we had it in front of us last year, it's not finished. [[…]] And so about the funding, both about the staff, both about the system, about the insurance. This is what was last year's first draft, the insurance inside was specifically defined. That's why it's been flying out now. How's the public network doing with that? It's not clear this line, as we don't have this kind of distinction in health right now, and then we mix. And then I'm listening here, I'd say what we're talking about now, mostly pathetic speeches, but not serious, how we really have to solve this whole thing. Therefore, I repeat, we will not object in the SAB. Let the law go forward because the circumstances, because we are also an integral part of Europe, and the money that is waiting for it, must be done, but we must make these laws. But this now has to be done by the legislator, I think by the government, the lawmaker, I apologize, not by us as a body, to fight in our opinions, to take big steps. And please, please listen to the expert. Which is what the comments of those who rule in the field, the congregations that rule NGOs, including the U.S.S.U.S.; all; all of them had comments so horrendous to this law that we could hardly say that we would not object to the first reading. Actually, he's got so many mistakes. But now, who will commit and whom will we believe will be eliminated? But it was offered now. But I think there's still a lot of work to be done on this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. There has been a change in the list of discussers, so Jure Ferjan has the word and Jani Möderndorfer is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u110	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear guests, honourable Members and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! I believe that there is great interest in the debate on the law on long-term care, on such an important topic for citizens and citizens as well. A secure, peaceful and dignified third life is one of the main priorities of the SDS programme and is also one of the main priorities of the coalition contract of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia led by Janez Janša. Therefore, by means of today’s law, we are living up to our promise. This law regulates at a systemic level the area of long-term care, which is currently regulated in several laws, in several regulations and is also very much dependent on where the individual is located, i.e. according to the location of his residence, the quality and accessibility of the service itself. However, this law, which also systematically regulates the way and source of funding, is a key step in ensuring that comparable services are also available for comparable needs; for all equally, i.e. regardless of the location of the stay, the place of residence, and regardless of the social status or standard of the individual, which is very important. This is a topic that is even more important in Slovenia, which has one of the oldest populations in the world. We're an old society. Some projections show that within a few years, we will reach the point where more people and residents of the country will be retired than those who are or are active. This witness, thank God, even as part of science and progress, we are not only an ageing but also a long-lived society. We must also adapt to this in the legislative field, of course, and this law is the answer to a number of questions. It is also important that the law on long - term care not only refers to elderly or elderly individuals but also refers to all who will or will need care. It is said that from the disabled, from those who, because of either illness or injury or other obstacles for a long time, or permanently, are unable to perform daily tasks or who need help in these tasks, they are dependent on someone. Thus, to put it more simply; this law also includes, for example, a youth who for such and other reasons has become disabled, as well as an individual who has certain problems, obstacles due to his age and needs a certain service, a certain help. It is important that this law places an individual in the center; a person who needs help in need of a service. And it is precisely that, for comparable services or comparable needs, an individual receives comparable services, regardless of what part of Slovenia lives in and what kind of social standard it is. This law also relieves local communities; this law regulates a more transparent way of controlling both the use of public funds in this area and the quality of services rendered. It is important that we also mention at this point the different forms that the law brings and that we have somehow already known in practice. It is on the one hand for formal care, which we share in institutional care, i.e. in the form of homes of older citizens, hospitals and so on, as well as formal care at home provided through services. Then there's the money and the form of the provider of the family member. From today's debate, respected and respected, we can get quite a sense of how complex the area is and how complex the law we have before us today. 117 versions, 117 drafts in three decades, I could say, but not one draft has come to this House of Legislative Power until today, respected and respected. Not one! And after these few debates and views from some KULs of parliamentary groups, which have in the past formed a government and even had this portfolio, a work environment which, apart from the Ministry of Health, is also responsible for regulating this area, is not so unusual that there were so many versions and that in the end you could not agree absolutely nothing. Of some, not all of them, I stress from some of the debates I have come to understand that everything is wrong, but the solution has not been on your part, not today or in the past decades. But this government of the Republic of Slovenia led by Janez Janša, and this government coalition has managed this effort and today, respected and respected, we have a law on long-term care, a bill on long-term care, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We have a general debate at first reading. I am pleased that, even from the opening presentations, this law will have support at first reading, and there have also been some concrete words that the willingness of the various parties to further develop this law will be complemented and, of course, to live, which is upon us, Members and Members, to bring it through the parliamentary procedure and, of course, to ensure that long-term care is provided that the services provided through the long-term care system must be accessible, quality and safe for all citizens and citizens of our beautiful country. This is why it also commends the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and commends the competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, as well as others, who have participated in this interdepartmental coordination. There are many areas that this law touches. At the same time, I am pleased that many dialogues have also been held with relevant stakeholders. All of this is also an indication of what is essentially the reason why the consideration of this law in the National Assembly has not occurred in recent years. The key is a lack of political will, it is plain to see. This political will, the awareness that something really needs to be done, that it is time to regulate the long-term care area, is present in this government, with the right-centre government, in the politics of the current government coalition and government. And that's why we're talking about this today. I would like to point out in the context of long-term care that it is important that we bring things to the point where what is actually enshrined in the law is also implemented as soon as possible in practice. For many people who, not today, would have needed more comprehensive help yesterday and would not have it because it is not regulated by marriage. In the final part of my debate, I would like to open another matter or share a few words about the Council of the Senior Municipality of Tržič, to which I am chair. This council somehow bypasses the various local stakeholders in the area of the elderly, in the field of those who are working professionally or through the form of various societies, organisations face the problem of the elderly. In this way, this council of elders covers both the local health centre and the centre for social work and the home of older citizens, representatives of the pension society, the disabled society and humanitarian organisations, and occasionally other relevant stakeholders are invited to give their opinion on a specific subject. This council is like a consultative body that serves the exchange of views and actually has some positive effects that things move faster. Representatives of the municipal administration are also involved, so that things can work well. Why am I saying this? I speak because even at the time when I was serving as a mayor, the council of the elderly and the various debates have been exposed to the importance of the law on long-term care, but it has not and has not moved forward, and there has been some sadness, some disappointment or, above all, a desire to come to this law; a law that regulates matters. And this law regulates these things. And I'm really glad that after 117 drafts that might have ended up in the drawer, maybe someone even ripped them off because they weren't satisfied, today we have a proposal for a law in the National Assembly, we talk about it, we discuss it, and I'm sure that the first reading will go on and that it will actually see the light of the world. Respected and respected, this law brings in all its complexity and solutions one of the important solutions to a decent life in the context of a dignified, aged man, and is determined by measures to help people, as far as possible, in their care at home, that is, at home. There are many elderly people who want to stay at home for as long as possible, but for various reasons, they cannot. With good institutional formal care, this is possible, and this law brings it; it brings no matter where an individual lives. And that is what Slovenia is, what the inhabitants and inhabitants of our country deserve. Respected and respected, we have before us a complex law, a law that is good, so I will support it with all responsibility, and I place it on our hearts to do so, too, because the bill on long-term care, respected and respected, is a law for people. That's how the vote for marriage is for the people, but you know what you're up against. This is how I believe we will be able to unite, and we will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. I can't believe it! This predecessor or, above all, my predecessor in the debate has already, almost as though he were at the referendum, explained how much you are for people if you vote like this law, otherwise you know who you are against. So I can't believe the discussion, but okay, because, to be honest, it's expected. So much for an introduction that I'm not surprised to hear a few more of these. For example, one such interesting flower that introduces this debate is, my forerunner notes, if there was no political will. Bravo, bravo! That's a really big point. Yeah, I can confirm, it really wasn't. But, you know, you don't even have the chance to have political will, because it's just a political decree, one. And that's your biggest problem, but that's just for starters. To explain to us that we have no suggestions — no offense, no suggestions have been written, no one has torn them because if they were torn, you could not list them. Besides, I don't know where you got 117 in the '30s, your colleague said 117 in the '20s, let's at least make a deal and say the same numbers to keep you consistent. But it's also unconstantly written by this law. You're not gonna believe this. The only problem is that you have to read it, and then you'll see what the problem is. And the task of the opposition is to tell you what it disagrees with, not because it is not political will, or because you are ugly, or because you are currently in power, but by definition and by some general practice you just have to spit and tear. No! No! But because, unlike you, the professional public has also said that it's not what you say it is. It is a fact and the only common denominator we have is that long-term care is urgently needed. One of my forerunners has already said where the main reason is why you broke this law. I really want to know why you didn't step in and introduce the law into the procedure at the first press conference of the two ministers last year. Take a look, and read the draft that was written at the time, and what is now written, what has already fallen out of this law and what has been changed, and you will see that you yourself have had serious problems with this law when you proposed it to the National Assembly. But the befell came from one end and it's more than clear why. I do not tell him if the law is well prepared, but because we would not have come to the means because the EU has made them very clear: if you do not have clearly defined and regulated long-term care, you do not have the right to these resources and you will not get them. And that was the main motto and the reason, and then it doesn't matter. Because you knew that you had a serious problem because you had too little time, because you should coordinate and seriously and intentionally put together, I'll say, the concept of long-term care, you made an elegant move; and I talked about it in my position. You pushed out what's most important: how we're going to pay for it. However, you do not stress that in 2024 or 1. 1. 2025 will no longer be these decrees, there will be no more of these urgent meetings and, above all, there will be no more this kind sharing of money. But we're going to have a big financial deficit, a budget deficit, we're going to have big debts, and, most problematicly, we're all going to have a headache, how we're going to keep all these fairy tale stories that you're writing now, in fact, because we're going to have a fiscal world and a fiscal rule that's going to keep us as a trap by the neck, how we're going to pay for it. And 780 million for the military, and 780 million for long-term care, and that's that much and that's it. All well and well, I agree, but you don't care what happens in 2025. Those who will be sitting in these benches again in 2025, believe me, if, at the time of digitisation, it will be fair to listen to your judgment, because one thing will simply not be possible to do – at least not in the way you imagine – and this is a key problem why we have to sit together, regardless of political diversity, in order to agree on at least the basic concepts of action. You know, nothing's gonna help you with the obvious that for 20 years, no one's made it through. 2016 was made an analysis of the health system in Slovenia, where it makes it very clear what must happen in order to reach long-term care. Very clear. You have not taken all the measures into account and that is why you have a problem today and will have a problem implementing it. The Economic Institute has clearly defined long-term care for you in its analysis in 2018. It is only in our hands that we should look at the way in which long-term care is financed and sustained. No, you didn't do it because you knew you couldn't do it. Not like that. Why put your long arms on 2025? Explain to me why? I just don't get that answer. Do We Need Time to Think — Or What? What are we gonna do these three years? No, no, no. Will we be satisfied that it is running as it is — or what? That's the key problem. People need to be told clearly. If by now you expected the whole country to pay – it will no longer work because the system is not sustainable. We are one of the few countries that in Europe, although in the field of health services, gives something but is a dual payment, pays twice. Here, in this case, something will have to be given and also taken care of your safety regarding long-term care. The problem is that young people — you will find it difficult to convince a young person at the age of 20 who has a housing problem to pay for long - term care if he may need it at 60 years of age or later. Or in the middle, if anything happens to him. You're gonna have a hard time convincing him! Therefore, such a duty is compulsory. And I understand that this year or the second year when the elections are held, it's kind of hard to tell voters that this is going to happen. But then at least today they have to be told: Sorry, this is absolutely necessary. I wonder what it'll look like when we get there. Inconsistentity, yes, of course, look. Unconsistency is clear, but before I go to the anomalies that are so obvious in this marriage, let me say the following. More than clearly, the United Nations in 2013 identified three activities that are most important and will in fact be the most invested over the next hundred years and will also be the most profitable for those who will do so, namely the production or manufacture of medicines and the sale of medicines, the production and sale of food, healthy food I speak, not junk food, and care for the elderly. These are three activities that will be the most profitable because they will bring, regardless of the status of the state, whether it is rich or poor, people will vote for it if they want to live a quality life — at least as much as they want. It is no wonder, then, that we need to be even more careful when setting out for the first time in history long - term care as to what it will look like. Forgive me, if it is more than 50 years ago, for example, hundreds of years, the rule that the Slovenian family must have at least 5 or 10 children in order to be able to survive; two, because they will stay on the farm, one will go as a priest, three or two of them may die, and the rest will also be for the reserve as a labor force. I'm sorry, the kind of thinking that some people have today and sell it, we can't build long-term care for this story, I'm sure we can't. And here's an ideological pattern that's problematic and that some of the lines sell. Those who will find themselves in this, well, those who do not, may rightly continue with this thinking, as you think it is right. If I go in line. The Minister, as he said at the outset, made it very clear that this is a matter of concern to the groom. I don't know if he meant in this room, I guess, in fact, in our country. But, you know, with this law, if it's adopted, we're going to introduce a double system of two different rights and they're going to overlap. Once again, some stubbornly insist on personal assistance, by means of my law, I claim that this law should have this simultaneously regulated personal assistance. Only in this way and in this way can we see that the rights do not double. This is essential, which should have happened in principle and clearly say what is something that is a health service, what is a social service – I am deliberately dividing into three grave groups – and what is essentially an independent way of life, given that, long-term care, as it is called in practice, should be from nothing to 99 years. That is why this is our proposal, of course, how it should be handled and arranged. The next matter that has been proposed today is not so bad, and you tear it up and destroy it, and in reality you threaten that everything will be challenged, that there is no money, and in reality it will be cheaper for the congregations. Those who worked in the local community, you know that once, years ago, a so-called piece, a piece of long-term care, partial or permanent, the municipality had already paid it, and paid it to social work centres in a way that, of course, the centres would then issue decisions on the basis of decisions, to whom such assistance belongs: in the form of walkers, actual assistance in kitchen or household affairs, or even in social services, such as those and others. In the Municipality of Ljubljana, of course, in 2006 all of this came to the fore when we found out how much money we were throwing and we did not even have a review of how these rights were actually being used and were disproportionately and unfairly distributed. If one took advantage of these rights in order to have an escort to Šmarna Gora, the other were essentially in short supply, which would actually need this help. We changed the matter by raising this money to social work centres and setting up a public institution, the Home Care Service, and also all those who worked through public works at the time, also hired and got a permanent job in this institution; that is, what the law defines. And that is the answer to the fact that such public institutions already exist, can be transformed, upgraded to additional tasks and so on, but the fact is that most municipalities will not be able to do so because they will not have the money. So, my colleague Mojca, who said that this money would come from, I don't know where, I'm sorry, one is the payment of the service, and the other is the payment and construction of the infrastructure, that you would have it at all. In Ljubljana, he has such a institution that you will understand what I am talking about, he has five seats. This is about five different spaces, there are so many and so many employees – over 100 of them, by the way – and it is about means of transport to drive all over Ljubljana, and, of course, not least the professional skills et four et cetera, that I do not speak, and then finally the working resources. I don't know. I don't know. But I do know that these workers have already been paid very poorly today. Those are the facts. And what's important to say about these people is that we're actually putting them in some category right now, where we're saying they're going to get paid 1.3-, 1.8-fold, I don't know, for one, for two, that I don't go into detail and so on, minimum wages. For the first time, we told you what we really need, who we're going to have. If we want to have educated people who are trained, as they should be, then of course forget that you will get them for this money. But if you get someone who's been sweeping before, then he's a little trained on some skateboards for a couple of hours, and then we won't have a good service. And let's say it out loud, and that's the key problem that we have to have before we adopt such a law. And we need to clear up what we're talking about. These personnel must be very clearly trained. If you think it's social security, that these can be a little less quality services – they can't be! High-quality professional services. Outside, they're paying for it seriously. Look at the offers they make in England, a very special organization that cares for long-term care for disabled people who have severe obstacles, simply cannot care for themselves, live permanently either from paraplegics, tetraplegics and so on, pay you food, apartment, plus, of course, pay you £2,000,800, plus the reward if they are satisfied with you, monthly at £1800. And it's about people, they're not trained for it, they're trained. That's what I'm talking about. We'd like to have a high professional, I don't know how insanely qualified people are, but we'd pay them a little more than a minimum wage. Please, that's not how it's gonna work! This system will ultimately lead to what you don't like to hear on the right is that we will have to import labour if we want to have really employees, or we will not have this service because these people are not. But another problem is for those who help through the family or would, of course, be willing to pay for it too, but you need to know that there are so many percent and so many percent of the 65 - year - old people who are already doing this work. I'm talking about percentages. Not to say the oldest is also 70 years old. Young people – it will be very difficult to get them for such a payment. These are very elementary serious things. And don't talk to me about complexity! Of course, it's a complex law and matter, I absolutely agree, I sign, but let's talk about the facts, the facts that await us. The next thing that matters is, yes, colleague Mojca said one interesting sentence that until the law is fully implemented, the country or the budget will finance this. [[…]] Really? The law doesn't say that. The law says that everything must be established by 2025. In 2025, I don't know what's gonna happen. You know why I don't know what's gonna happen? As far as I know and know how governments or ministries and professional services work, sometimes the Minister does not adopt one more year of regulation after the adoption of the law. We don't even see him for a year. Here this law speaks of a period of three months after the law has been enacted. Please! Now go see what are the important acts that the Minister will have to adopt and talk about the key issues. The Rules on Services, Long-term Care, which will speak – say, assistance in basic tasks, assistance in supporting work, health care, related to basic work, services for strengthening and maintaining autonomy and e-services. But we don't even know what it is today. We don't even know what these rights are. We don't know what these days are, what's easier, simple jobs, we don't know what's harder; we don't know anything. That's just what the minister's gonna set up with the rulebook. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that rights must be clearly defined in the law, not just in order for something to be done. And then that mantra that we've been listening to for years and years, and not just from this government, even any other governments, I admit when they say we can't write it all down, but we'll have to change the law every time. But the Constitutional Court has said that rights must be defined by the highest act adopted by Parliament, just so that they are clear and have a legal weight. Not like today, when a congregation meets at a health treasury and changes the rules of play and justice overnight, or reduces them or increases them, they do, and so it is. We pay extra or basic health insurance, and we do not even know when something has changed. Who in the waiting room reads those big sheets, what are your rights?Oh, my God! That's when it hurts, but you've got a fever. Nobody reads those sheets. But justice changes overnight. Next thing you know, the Staff Regulations, training, long-term supervision. Excuse me, my dears, before you get to the supervisor, you're going to have to get people who are going to the supervisors first, or who are going to the supervisors, they're going to be employed, but whatever. Then the following thing, the Regulation on Minimum, Spatial, Technical and Safety Conditions for the long-term care provider and the cost of standard accommodation for the long-term care provider in the public service network, the Rules on the methodology for the supervision of long-term care providers, the Rules on the registration in the register of long-term care providers. If everything is so clear and you know exactly how – and because it is logical, because you need to know this, if you have written the law, then you have a full picture and you know how it will work – I don’t know why you didn’t come and show us the drafts of these rules so that we can see what, how you imagined it. Because we don't have any balls and we don't know how to look into your brain at how you imagined this long-term supply. But if we're deciding in the National Council on the Long-Term Care Act, then I want to know how you imagined it. Which is why I expect you to come up with these rules by the end of this law. Besides, that's not all. You'll have to change 8 laws, 8 laws, so this thing can even come to life, even the Law of Court. This isn't a joke. And that's why it's important that we know this before we make a decision. Then the next matter, which is of course necessary, is also about how we talk about staff, and I would like to know what the needs for staff are. Do you have this analysis done? What are we talking about, what will be the number of personnel? I do not expect you to have a human resources plan, as it is necessary to adopt a budget, far from that. It's not all gonna be up to the state. But the moment you list who's all going to be involved in long-term care at the level of the state, at the level of the privates, at the level of the municipality, then of course you have some calculations made. Why is that important? The main reason why this is important is because we have found out at basic aid that it is problematic when you adopt marriage and say that you need so much and so much money. I'll give you an example, but I'm telling you the facts. When considering the Personal Assistance Act, Members were told before deciding that we need only EUR 9 million and personal assistance will be resolved in the Republic of Slovenia. Two years later, we had a problem because it's already grown to 36 million. And today we're talking about a huge number that I don't even have to tell myself. And if we, for four years, have experienced such a percentage gap in a personal assistant, what will we experience only in long - term care if we have exactly the same calculations?Oh, my God! These calculations are made by the same people. I'm talking about professional associates, I'm not talking about officials, because officials don't do calculations. And what difference will we make? At the final stage, when the Institute of Economic Affairs made calculations for long-term care in 2018, it had already foreseen 480 million without investment, at annual level. No investment. Today we are at about 780 million, a million up, a million down, I don't know, and I'm not going to deal with it, but when it comes to 2025, when it comes to life, if it's really what we think it's going to be, but I'm afraid it's going to be too little and it's going to be a significantly bigger number. You also mention inside sources where everything will be paid. Something will be paid by the congregation, something will be the state budget, something will go from the ZPIZ, something will go from the health treasury, and then mention something famous, something that scares me, you say, the demographic fund. Where do we have him? Where's the demographic fund? We don't have one. How can you count on something that isn't? Let me explain. That is why this financial structure simply does not work; unless you count on a famous sentence – the difference will always cover the budget. But you are already involved in this law when you realize that for 2021 there will be a rebalancing to provide $5 million, and that is not in the balance. It's not. You're just being inconsistent. Then you explain in this law that something will happen, that it must begin with 1. 1. 2025, then you say below that the rules will be issued 21. 6. 2025. What's it gonna be, six months? Empty space, vacuum or something, or welcome to the EPP? I forgot, then you'll be out of power and you don't care what it says. Or not. I don't know. But the matter is extremely misplaced. The next thing is the type of service. What are these kinds of services? Above all, you also mention what will be paid, but they will pay their own overtime. But what's above standard? It's not defined anywhere. What about the prices in nursing homes? One is a home in a public institution, and one is a private one. Officials also have all their credits or investments in the price and everything else. It is said that we will have two different prices — what will be paid, what will not be paid. Next thing. Who and when will determine when the decision for long - term care is issued? You know, long-term care isn't necessarily until death. It could be much less. We could learn something similar from personal assistance. Personal assistants had people after one year, and then they didn't have them anymore. They fell off a tree, had trouble with their spines, and needed personal assistance. They got the decision, but after one year they didn't need it anymore, but the decision didn't say it was just for one year. If the user were unfair, he could use it further, otherwise I don't know what that would look like with a personal assistant, but I could. But here we're talking about cash benefits. How will this be supervised? The entry points are supposed to be ZZS. Great, fine. Area units. But today, in his opening statement, the minister stated a nice sentence, which I like very much, saying: "The rights will be no matter where they are. Great. So, Kobrčan will be able to go to Ptuj and from Murska Sobota he will be able to go to Jesenice. But you know that's not gonna happen in practice. First, because people want to be as close to their home environment as possible and then we will have a problem with the concentration of services at the site. It's called a network. While you determine, you say this will be certain, the law says that this will be determined by the national long-term care programme in the Republic of Slovenia and this will tell the whole truth about what this network will look like. But just as the law is now written down and according to the answers we don't get, I'm afraid it's going to be a big and serious problem. The next matter, which is necessary to which we need answers, is, of course, also a waiting line. You know today that if you go to a nursing home — if you want, regardless of the location, you will be able to come and get a service, one way or another — some will wait for years. We will identify what are reasonable waiting types and what are unreasonable waiting types. How is it possible to define ourselves on the question – the right to choose the operator freely? Will it be in principle, take this, or do you not have a service? These are things that are not defined, not defined. What's the point of going back to the professional world? The law stipulates that the Minister will have his own professional council, 9 members will be in there, and four of these nine members will be from the Ministry of Health, 4 from the Ministry of Labour – reduced not to speak the full name – and one from the Ministry of Finance. Where exactly are the experts if they're called the expert council? They represent the Ministry and the Government, not the profession. Where's the profession? Since the following article makes it very clear: “The Professional Council for Long-term Care may, if necessary, invite officials, public servants and experts in areas relating to long-term care”, watch out and then the key sentence, which states everything, “where invited persons do not have the right to vote” means that they will not be able to decide on anything. If a recommendation is made to the expert board, an opinion, a conclusion, or any other matter, it must also have some qualifications for deciding what he has said and what is written down. The fact that you're inviting someone to the professional world, I'm sorry, I wouldn't even want to go to a professional world where they're officials. The profession tells them something, then the official tells them how he understood it or how he decided to do it and what he proposed to the minister. You will not set up this professional council at all, because it will be the end of this government, but at least this opportunity to predict that there will also be an expert sitting in it, because there are some professional councils in the country that advise the government and help the government, but there are experts inside, not just officials. I don't mind having officials sit down, but these are things that naturally leave a great deal of doubt in reality, what will actually happen next. Well, then we have concessions. At the performance of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and then for quite some time we listened to some thundering and limping about how the first shovels were going to be, but now it's going to be built, and now I don't know how many homes for the older ones and what I know what else. But now we find that only concessions are in play. They're mostly coming in and out of private. Once again, I don't mind the privates, but I have a problem with prices that private people will have. That's the problem. This is what I explained earlier, the difference between price and price. It is already more or less visible who actually enters the very space concerning the concessions themselves. The fact is that the law makes it very clear that concessionaires will have the option, those who can apply for long-term care, domestic and foreign legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals, natural persons who carry out the activity independently, and those who carry out complementary activities on the farm if they meet the conditions. We voted yesterday on personal assistance. Some of you have praised this insanely, but with yesterday's amendment, we have allowed a certain group to be cut off from the services. I'm talking about the deaf. And I am now asking how we will exercise this right to long-term care when it comes to deaf people. We're gonna have a double service, we're gonna have an interpreter and someone else who's gonna offer long-term care? Why am I talking about personal assistance? That's where I saw you working. One company had five performers who were deaf and helped as personal assistants in personal assistance. Since you have determined with the amendment that there must be at least 10 of them, of course now it is out and you will not have any service, period. I don't know, but I'm afraid it's going to be exactly the same story. It's exactly the same story. No, no, no. Or we'd rather take a more expensive route and we'd be paying for two services, even though I can't imagine why we'd be jumping two now, if one can do it. The figures on the budget and how these appropriations will be complemented and coordinated all there by 2025, I will send for a second reading, but more than clearly shows the calculation that there will be a shortfall in money and that the law will not be implemented. Then there's the next problem. How are we going to proceed with the gradual addition of rights from long-term care? Provisions relating to the right to long-term care in the institution itself, for example, as you know, first the housing unit, the nursing home, the nursing home, the beginning of use will be 1. Seven. 2022, then the provisions relating to the right of the provider of the family member to take effect with 1. 7. but it's not clear what that's gonna be. However, if we look at the following indent, the beneficiary of the family member’s provider may exercise rights from 1. Seven. 2024. Now explain this connection to me. It doesn't even go together. One of them won't be able to do it for the other. This is the inconsistency you're introducing. The one who wrote or repaired it forgot to make repairs at the copy pasta. Of course, he only did copy-paste and left; or he forgot to delete because you made a different arrangement in between. How will the evaluation scales for obtaining justice work? There is now a single rating scale on which insurers can also be classified in one of the five categories of eligibility, such as lighter, moderate, heavier, heavier, the most difficult limit defined by the law. But this new evaluation scale is simply not defined in the law itself, it will only be defined by the so-called rulebook. Again, we don't know what it is, a void again, an empty run. All of this will be pointed out by: the ability to move in an environment where the insured person resides, cognitive or communicational abilities, behaviour and mental health, the ability to provide self-care in the environment in which the insured person resides, the ability to cope with illness and treatment, the flow of everyday life, social contacts, the ability to operate outside the home environment and the ability to carry out household tasks in the environment in which the insured person resides. And then the rights, what belongs to him, what doesn't, what group he goes to. But I have one serious problem. Will everyone then treat equally what are those rights that belong to him and are paid on the basis of what he will pay the budget and medical bills by 2025, or what he will later become superstandard. Do we know that? Do we have an answer to that? We don't. In short, if you look at the proposal made at the table by former Minister Tomaž Gantar, if you look at the proposal made at the time of the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which also defined the abolition of supplementary insurance and, of course, the introduction of long-term care, you will see that these proposals change in a diametric and drastic way from one minister to another, and not least to this proposal that we have today and that they have already changed it twice on their own. For what was presented last September or October was, of course, a number of things went wrong and is now a different concept. Therefore, it would be fair from the proponents, says the Government, to tell people out loud who is really going to provide money today; and who and how you imagined this would be settled with another law that will regulate the compulsory payment for long-term care. And anyway, if it does, I hope not, because I am sure that this law, according to the Minister's statement that he said at the outset – If this law is not adopted, will take at least one and a half years to be adopted against it. In view of the fact that your proposal is to run as it is, or virtually no serious changes in the course of time, except that in the meantime the regulations, the sub-laws, the establishment of professional saints and the search for a white light across the wider Slovenia will be written, professional people who will also do this work, because the only thing they can do right now can be homes, in the way you imagined, because everything else will be financed and paid only 2025. Tell me out loud how you imagined this way of funding. Who's gonna pay for this? It's the only way, fair, fair to men, tell them, because honey and milk won't come together. That's an expensive expense. I estimate for myself that after five years these costs will increase by over a billion. This won't stay at 870 million. The one who's so naive is wrong. Services will be more expensive every day, more demanding each day, and not least, because we do not live in stone age. We want everyone to be above standard. Unable to cut nails and cut hair tips is assessed and paid as above standard. You know, these banal things need to be discussed when we really want to approach long - term care. No one in this room, I believe, is against long-term care. The concepts of how to do this, on the one hand, we have a choice, let's give one law to which we call long-term care is incomplete and is essentially the only basis for getting funding from the NOO programme, the Recovery and Resistance Plan, because we need these funds from the EU. And on the other hand, to tell people the truth about how we envisioned long - term care and what awaits them; that it also means a new financial obligation, not just concern. People are willing to give money, everyone. All they have to do is be honest with them. This is the only way that we can answer people honestly in one democratic process. This is not a matter that four people in one office can handle. This is a matter that has a serious purpose and will have a lasting impact on society as a whole. A few questions were raised, and more are likely to be raised below. Having the courage to come with the law before the National Assembly is not only a matter of filing it; but, above all, that you have the answer to all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferrian has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u114	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I must replicate my colleague, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, in two matters. The first is as regards the law on long-term care and my words to refer to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course they are. This is such a topic that actually touches every citizen of our country, and as a result, voting for this law is a vote for the people. Is it even more visual? On the contrary, a vote against the law on long-term care is a voice against affordable and quality life or long-term care for all, for all, no matter where they live and no matter what their social standards. I believe it hurts because you've already said today that you're going to vote against the law. And the other thing is, at this point, I might be able to agree with you. If anyone knows more about the lack of political will in the history of Slovenia in regulating the issue of long-term care, it will certainly be you, dear colleague Jani Möderndorfer, because you have been among the most diverse government parties so far. You probably know the most about the lack of political will to deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. This last part, Mr Ferrjan, was not really a replica because you did not explain what you were misunderstood about, but it was essentially an account with colleague Möderndorfer. And it's a little incorrect because he can't answer you because there's no replica on the replica. Let us continue to hold on to the content and explanations in replicas, in which we are not, you have not been understood in the context of your debate. If we continue the debate now. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State and co-worker from the Ministry. Nice greetings to everyone else too! I have to start in an unusual way. Now I'm going to compliment the government on one move. I'm also sorry that there is no secretary of state at this time in the Chamber. She was a few seconds ago. Something unusual happened to us. A few days ago, we received from the Ministry responsible for health, initiative, the proposal of Minister Janez Poklukar – Can I present to you the law? That was very unusual, I must say, by this government. We have accepted this and the Minister, Mr Secretary of State, has arrived, including you, Mrs Collaborator, and some others. I am simply saying this as something positive, especially because, unlike the Committee on Social Affairs and the Work that you are leading, Mrs Eva Irgl, where we sometimes agree on something, where the opposition's argument is also heard; on the Health Committee led by Mrs Anja Bah, this is absolutely impossible. If we even propose to put air cleaners in the classroom as urgently as in all smart countries, so that children are four times safer; no, there is a vote against. It's a whole other thing than a social committee. And that's why we took as a new policy, anything, as a sign of distress, and we accepted and talked. That's a start. It's the other way around. The fact is, what you've all said together many times is that we need to provide long-term care, because we've all left older people as a society. And we have to do this in solidarity, in vertical, in horizontal and in generations. We all know that. I remember Mr Dimovski's first serious attempt and then the next one, but what is not said here today is why all these attempts have failed. They were models, they were different, but they all fell because no model could provide money. However, those who had to write this were so honest that if they did not know how to secure the money, they did not send the blank material to Parliament. This is just the difference between previous models and the current one. They were, but it was impossible to find a consensus on how to secure money. I'll tell you, if it were me, the answer is simple. A new contribution, where you pay as much in proportion as you have income, like a pension, for health care and the like. And then there would be a third cash register, maybe within another one, where you could gather what you believe at the end, the need for billions of euros, as much as you need, is actually seen from government materials. One attempt by the Social Democrats was also made at the end of the previous coalition – unfortunately, I wish it were now – when something should not have been abolished, this supplementary health insurance, because it is not, in fact, complementary, but compulsory. The only thing we do is give 8% for the margins to private insurance companies, while in the public service, this margin is 1.4%. When that was about to be abolished and the coalition fell apart, we suggested that it be added; and we gave the options. Just so we can hear why it's so important. We gave some variants. One of those options was okay. Anyone who receives income, one or the other, should make an average contribution of 10 euros per month. Of course, it would be best for us here if there were essentially a percentage of solidarity, but also classes, that those with a little less, only 1 euro per month, those with more, but also 100 or 200 per month. It was acceptable for us. And if we had decided then 10 euros on average, but within the range, we would have collected – now listen to the number – about 180 million euros. Only 180 million euros. If we had opted for 15 euros for everyone, we would have raised 270 million. Now, if you've listened to me correctly, we're going to need a billion in the end, so we know how much we need to gather. And running away from it makes no sense. We must raise so much money that the third life period will be safe and solidarity for everyone. The material before us is empty in making promises that have already been made hundreds of times without a financial source. Clearly, in here you write that the first year of operation of the law, that is 2022, you will give from the state budget 105, then 164, and then 300 so on. For 2025 you can even write 221 instead of 440 million. I would understand if we wrote together – okay, but we'll guarantee this money in the budget because it's holed because it's billions of holes, we'll make sure, or we'll raise the rate of value added tax, profit tax, whatever, something. To write – we will give 100, 200, 300 million; not to write, from where, it is essentially a dangerous promise that people do not deserve. Do you know why? Because, in fact, you've had quite a lot of laws on your part. And so many promises have been made in the coming years that no one will be able to, unless we find out that we're lying on oil, gold and diamonds at the same time, but I'm afraid we won't find out. So the worst mistake of this law is, and I would like at least a vision, a minister, a ministry, a secretary of state, to show how we can secure money. That would really be great. What I'd like to say is this. We got a bunch of letters, some of them got sprinted, but if you printed everything, you'd probably be a bunch like that, probably up here to the tip of the microphone. And I've printed a few of them in a row, and I'll read to you what you think about your marriage, those who get to know each other more about everything than we do sitting here; but no offense. I'm just going to start with the silver thread run by Mrs. Biserka Marolt Meden. Perhaps you all know and appreciate the lady, she wrote: “The proposal of the Long-Term Care Act, which will be discussed by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21 October 2021, and adopted by the Government in July, is not suitable for adoption because it is not good. He is imperfect, weak, poorly understood." Let's go first, because we are in Ljubljana, Mr. Zoran Jankovic says that this is the most beautiful place in the world, but here he is wrong, forget about Murska Sobota and Maribor, but I don't know about the others, but Piran, as well as Piran; wrote someone on his behalf about this law as follows: In this law, especially, an inappropriate system of financing, which is essential for the implementation of a law that regulates long-term care. It is also unacceptable that there are no decisive solutions in the law itself — I apologize, the diophria is greater than these glasses show — because they are supposed to be regulated by under-laws and certain other laws. The introduction of the text states that the last proposal is the fruit of the previous cooperation of various stakeholders; neither the Municipality of Ljubljana as the largest municipality nor the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia were ever invited to participate. They therefore propose to withdraw this law from the legislative process and to prepare a completely new law in cooperation with experts, including in the field of social protection, and other key stakeholders, interest associations, chambers and so on. Next letter. There's a shortcut up there – ZMOS. In practice, this means the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, and in the introduction: “The procedure for preparing a legislative proposal, in particular as regards the participation of municipalities, is extremely weak or inconsistent with the Law on Local Self-Government, so we propose that the parent body or the National Assembly of the Law does not confirm that the Government approaches the in-depth search for solutions for the Association of Municipalities and, on the basis of the relevant cooperation of the latter, improves the proposal and resubmits it.” Then we have the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. This is Mrs. Jasmina Vidmar. She's from Maribor, by the way. And then he writes that a system of long - term care is needed, which will be financially stable and sustainable and so on; and the congregations were not present. Then we have another association where Mr Robert Smrdlj is signed, this time the Association of Slovene Municipalities. By the way, we have three associations, if anyone doesn't know it yet. He's a little more fond of you, but he'll warn you there's no finances. Then, interestingly, wrote a slightly smaller congregation, the Municipality of Domžale. Here is signed Mr. Toni Dragar, he is the mayor: “The law is not suitable for further consideration, mainly due to numerous errors in the text itself, as well as unknown sources of funding for long-term care. Above all, the text of the law raises a number of questions about the role of the local community and the unknown financial consequences of that.” Then a relatively professionally written opinion. Here's what it says. Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. I'll read you who's signed. President of the Management Board, Mrs Tatjana Cherin. Let's just say the second paragraph is enough. “In the introduction, we stress that the proposed regime is unclear, flawed, internally inconsistent, because as such it does not meet the fundamental requirements of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. The content and purpose of the individual articles, consequences and interconnections of the solutions cannot be understood either from the explanations of the articles, since they contain only concise summaries of the provisions and non-individual explanations which would enable the understanding and interpretation of the purpose of the legal provisions and the proper implementation of the legal regime.” Municipality of Celje. What did they write down? “Let us assume that the proposal for a law is not appropriate for a further procedure.” And then they keep explaining it. Mr. Sušnik will support you. The municipality of Kranj does not support you. The silver thread, once again, is strongly opposed this time. The Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, so many amendments, is essentially a new law. Interestingly, we also had a conversation with Mr Tomaž Wraber, former president of the Association of Blind and Invisible Associations, where he drew attention to the allowance for assistance and service, which, by the way, I have to say, the Ministry said yesterday that the article would be deleted or made so that individuals could decide for themselves whether to maintain the right arising from the law already now or to go to another right. So I've only read something, and it took eleven minutes, ladies and gentlemen, with respect, but I can go on a break and then read on or read on. What does a man think when he hears that? You've done something, you've forgotten to provide money, you've made a promise without meat, and what you've done is worthy of opposition. Yeah, that's your job. And then no wonder when we have a view that it would be significantly better to ask for an opinion, instead of having already invested it, with any idea, with any law before making it. You will receive advice and then perhaps even come up with a common solution that will be enjoyable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Tadeja Shuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. And I'm going to connect myself to two previous discussers. I listened carefully to everything the coalition Members had to say. However, I would like to repeat what colleague Möderndorfer has already said. If people, users, and even here in Parliament were to tell us in some way what you're doing, instead of manipulating what we've been listening to, then it would be easier to find a solution. She did not take part in this law, nor in the union, nor in the congregation. And this is the practice of this government to give us something and it's a terrible blow to the chest, how it's done something that no one has done before – and debirocraticization and digitization and long-term care, we're saving Slovenia. In fact, all of this is only for them and propaganda, which is a system of burned earth. And what we will get if we ever get the country back from the hands of this government, Janez Janša, will be burned to the ground. Here you represent some marriage with a big pump and pride, but you don't tell me where we're going to take it. And you put this into some future, when, I don't know, some other government has to, and you're going to hang all this ugly thing, the real thing that has to be in your hands, you have to take somewhere; on the other hand, thank you and knock again on your chest, how you've adopted a law that no one has ever succeeded. Now let me touch on that long-term care in legislation, of course this concept has not yet been defined at all, but it is, in principle, services or services needed by persons who, due to the consequences of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period, depend on the assistance of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. And, of course, there is a path that awaits us all. We must be truly compassionate here, and we must be reasonable, for sooner or later we all come to the point that we need such help. However, our position in Levica is that long-term care must be part of a public service, where there will be clear standards and norms; not what the ruling coalition is doing now, especially with New Slovenia, which thus likes to privatise and outsourcing services and the price of labour, precarnation, wealth at the expense of cheap labour, lowering supply standards. On the other hand, superstandard services for privileged persons. And then we get the so-called first-class and second-class ones that John Janša likes to talk about, and the distribution. Those first-class guys are gonna have this super standard that they're gonna be able to afford. The poorest, who already have wages so low that they can't cover up this basic supply in a public house later on, but they'll go to so-called sweatshops, but unfortunately some people call it that. In short, the law systematically and permanently does not regulate financing of long-term care at all, but rather translates into some market players, which of course means tightening competition, entering foreign multinationals, lowering standards and quality of care, overreaching the labour force in the field of supply; and such a law can make the situation of older people much worse. And we need to be aware of that. It also makes the situation of working people worse, since they are already providers in the 19th grade, and this is mainly the work of women who represent the main custody staff. But we know they prefer to work abroad, and Austria is close, and at least there they are normally paid for it. This law will also allow for the full liberalisation and privatisation of supply delivery, and this can only lead to a reduction in quality and accessibility and, of course, poor quality of care. This is also the subject of international comparisons. In profit-oriented institutions, solidarity is always the last thing, but profit follows. And you need to know that capitalist competition and solidarity are excluded. Competition follows profit, not welfare. And here, with the solidarity that some debaters have embroiled, I must say that you are insulting a healthy mind and intelligence, solidarity in this law is nowhere to be seen. This competition, which will be cheaper, means only poorly paid jobs, poor services and cutting costs on non-essential services. Of course, we need to know what it means to provide such care. Performers of this long-term care will be practically all and will be able to enter foreign corporations that will smoothly overrun all other competition. There's been an espelation of the area. In short, the law is written in such a way that it leads to privatisation, and anyone who does not see it simply manipulates it. And these profits to the private and the costs will pass on to the care providers, the care will be more expensive. And only a narrow group of pensioners will be able to afford this stay, since an average pension without the help of relatives is not enough to stay in public homes. Believe me, these are facts. Maybe it's a little different in your families, but you're part of the privileged and first-class. Our view is that all care institutions should be implemented as a public service, not that we have a system of profitable private operators. And you say, let's take it and then we'll finish and we'll make an amendment. Once this is accepted, when friends get money that we know will come from Europe, it's too late. The wrong way of thinking is one that will permanently make it impossible for us to have equal access to these essential services at an age. Thank you. I have to give it a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Tadeja Šuštar Zalar. Get ready, Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I have to challenge my predecessor, Violeta Tomić, when she mentioned how competition makes the situation in the labour market worse. Let me say that competition can only help to improve, as different companies are competitive and improve their services. One thing I could agree with when she mentioned who would be eligible for long - term care. To this end, a person who is at least 18 years of age who is dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks because of illness, age weakness, injury or disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity. In order to better plan and organise and carry out long-term care, an expert council for long-term care will be set up as a consultative body with the Ministry of Health, consisting of four members on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, four members on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and one member on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. All ministries involved in the long-term care process will participate in this expert council. Long-term care may be provided at home or in an institution, but the beneficiary may choose to receive cash. If long-term care in the institution or at home is temporarily not possible, the beneficiary will receive a temporary allowance according to the level of aid he needs, i.e. between €89 and €491 per month. As a specific form, beneficiaries will be able to exercise the right in the form of a provider of a family member in categories 4 or 5 of eligibility, which are at the highest level of aid. The provider of a family member is a special form of providing long - term care at home. It is limited to family members or relatives who actually live at the same address. And this status does not represent a working relationship, so the provider of the family member is not granted the right to regression, annual leave, paid hospital leave, retirement leave or the like. The provider of the family member has the right to partial payment for lost income, which we have also arranged for the minimum wage to be paid and to be included in compulsory social insurance. However, it may be scheduled to be absent for up to a total of 21 days per year. During that time, alternative care shall be provided in the institution. The beneficiary may also be cared for by two family members. The new organisational form of long-term care in the institution is also a nursing home. And this nursing home allows the care of people who, while often unnecessary, remain in hospital care for a long time. This will also release cities in hospitals that will be able to accommodate more. The set of services to be financed under long-term care rights is assistance for basic and supporting daily tasks, health care related to basic daily tasks, and services to strengthen and maintain the autonomy and service of e-services. e-services mean distance services to ensure the independence and security of the beneficiary in the home environment and devices that enable the provision of distance services. This will be financed up to €150 per year for insured persons who will benefit from long-term care at home. The beneficiary shall, on his own, cover the costs of accommodation and nutrition in the institution or diet in the daily forms of long-term care. Long-term care providers who have to obtain a long-term care permit in order to carry out long-term care activities may be public long-term care establishments, other legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and natural persons who carry out the activity independently and carry out complementary activities on a farm carrying out the long-term care activity. However, the public network of long-term care providers shall be determined according to the total number of inhabitants and the number of inhabitants over 65 years and over 80 years in a given area, the need for long-term care in a given area according to the nature of the settlements, the density of the settlement and the specificity of the individual area, and the availability and choice between the different forms of long-term care services. The life expectancy of the population in Slovenia is increasing, which also shows improvements in the standard of living of the population and also in the progress of medicine. The needs of people and their families will also change in a long-lived society in the future. We want to create opportunities for a quality life for all generations and for decent ageing. This requires a coordinated adaptation of labour market measures, lifelong learning, health and long-term care, social protection, the living environment, as well as in other areas. Slovenia is late in the introduction of a modern long-term care system and it is necessary to establish insurance and an effective network of long-term care facilities. To this end, public funds must be provided and complemented by private resources. In doing so, it is necessary to follow the trends in the care of the elderly, which is not limited to institutional care alone. That is why we have prepared this law on long - term care, and after all these years, all people deserve to be accepted and applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. Maybe I'd start where my predecessor ended up. He says it's time for us to adopt the law and start using it. The devil is that a law like this can't be used because it's too prepared. Here we are, I must say, in the SAB in this marriage in a really big dilemma. We need the law. We've been talking about him for 15 years. I've already heard some ministers in this house say that the marriage is practically ready and in the drawer, and then we get on the table like this. Of course, responsibility for the laws passed not only in Slovenia but everywhere in parliamentary democracy is taken over by the government, which is why it is the easiest thing to do for the opposition – and this will, of course, be part of the opposition – to say that everything is wrong in this law and we will not support it. But we in the Sab party are talking about that this is such an important law that we are waiting so long that this kind of effort in terms of whether or not we may be able to fix it, we can all do it together. The law is now in the first reading, we have a general discussion, we will be able to comment, there have been extremely many comments from various stakeholders. We are thinking of at least abstaining and allowing the law to proceed to the second reading, to see if the government is capable of correcting it. If it is, great, the law that I repeat six times is urgently needed; if it is not, then we will have to reject it. Because every time we talk to the pensioners, we hear this terrible need and do not really want it, but the need for something to finally be resolved in this area. But the law isn't and it isn't. I understand this concept, the law is practically in the drawer, but I don't understand. I've discussed this a number of times in this National Assembly. If the former government, whatever it is, prepares a law up to three quarters or even almost to the end, why does every new government have to start inventing hot water from the beginning? That was never clear to me. This is because Minister Šabeder, who was in the government of Marjana Sharca, from the LMŠ quota, said several times, even at the end of his resignation, that the law on long-term care was actually prepared. And then in the SAB, if you remember, we proposed some kind of technical government that would accept some of the necessary things for Slovenia; and among them was this matter — the law on long-term care. As SAB, we absolutely think that the law should be adopted now, not in three years; and if we reject it immediately again, I fear that it will not be returned to the table for at least two years. But on the other hand, because my colleagues said, one of them in forty minutes, what was wrong. What, though, should we do if some stakeholders say that they are not at all capable of further consideration?Oh, my God! And I must say that here is this dilemma, whether these shortcomings, which have been given, can indeed be rectified in the legislative procedure. And if I start with the most essential. The easiest thing is, of course, we passed a law on long - term care, where you say that you would introduce long - term care, but you say nothing about where and with what money and with what contribution and when this contribution will be implemented. It's important to us. These are like those pyre laws about the army on health care – we will invest 300 million here and 500 there 760 do not know where; we do not know from where or from when. And most importantly, we're not going to do this now that we're responsible, but we're going to charge this to one government in two years, because maybe it won't be ours, looks like it won't, but let them deal with it. And so is this law. Key things, where to get enough money, the whole sum, you haven't answered, and you haven't written the most important things in, of course, that will be the most painful thing to do, so at least you've been talking in these debates all these years, some additional contribution. And now we don't know about this marriage, not any contribution, not anyone, not at any height, not ever since. Nothing, nothing, nothing. And of course, I can have a beautiful yacht for 100,000 euros all day long, but if I don't have 100,000 euros, I'll never have one; and if I don't know how to get one, it won't. And that's the problem with this marriage. In short, the most important thing for us in the SAB is not to avoid this responsibility that one government has to accept, of course, for the long-term supply law to be adopted in a way that determines services, users and all the way forward and also identifies funding sources or certain contributions that will affect citizens. And I understand that in a few years' time, we will not adopt one law that will not make it clear how this will be financed. No, it's a pear pamphlet, not a marriage. Then let's move on. The way in which the public service will or will not be complemented by certain legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and natural persons, is not clearly defined in Article 3. I understand, and this is also pointed out by the interested public, that we may not have enough providers of these services, some institutions, organisations with enough employees to offer this as a public service in the narrowest sense of the word. But this relationship, public service, non-public service, private providers, especially non-profit or profit, should very clearly define the law. If I understand any of these debates so far, this service should be used in a non-profit manner, which means that even if it is carried out by public or private legal persons, the money of the operators of this activity, education and so on is used. So that, performers, profit, non-profit. Then it's the third important thing. Services and how to prevent these services from being misused and not again a law that someone would evaluate to x million would be 5 years later x plus 100%. Is that defined enough? At a meeting that we had with the minister and the team, they assured us that we were. I wonder if it's true. If some things are introduced, some services will be allowed, it will never be allowed to be repaired again, because the rights then take are much harder than the right to give. And here, for example, when services are provided, I also ask about the receipt of cash receipts. But this is really something that is supposed to be enough, or that is something where abuse is possible; in the sense that children or relatives of this person will address this person for this cash receipt, because it will of course improve the social status of their family; this poor person, who should be given long-term care, will have nothing to do with it. And at every point, we need to think about what abuse is and how to prevent it. Not because we want beneficiaries to receive long - term care badly, but because we want them to, because we want this money to go for them. And there's still a lot to discuss and say, but unfortunately we don't have time. Therefore, I will only say that, of course, it is essential for me here that the quality of control is regulated. It is because there will be no financial abuse and also because people will truly receive proper care. And I'm not one of those people who says that anyone who's going to handle this long-term care needs to be a doctor or a nurse. We have different services for different users and perhaps sometimes it is enough that someone is empathetic who can help an older person. But that must be some quality at all levels. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Lenart has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, including guests from the Ministry! The Long-Term Care Act represents a new pillar of social security for citizens and follows the guidelines of the European Union and the needs for assistance for the elderly and persons with a different physical disorder, a mental disorder. Therefore, a system law is needed and is one of the measures provided for in the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. We are also reminded of the need for uniform and systemic regulation by the European Commission somewhere since 2013, all professional and lay public, and we have an additional warning in the form of an epidemic of covida-19, which has probably taught us something. The proposal is therefore also a logical response to accelerated population ageing, an increase in long-term care needs and, of course, also in view of the diverse needs of the elderly. Well, caring for the elderly and those who just need help is one of the basic civilizational gains. We have to say that this has been here for a long time. At times, caring for the elderly and others was more in the family’s domain, and later that changed. I must also say that among those whom, of course, this law on the long-term care of the most affected are the long-term ill, the injured, the weakened, the elderly, the persons with physical and mental disabilities, already said; and these age-debilitating will continue to be more and more in the future. We all know we're getting old as a society. In Slovenia we are even older than the European population, so the so-called median in Slovenia is 44.5 years and in Europe we are 42.5 years old, so we are above the average of the European Union and even 10th place among the countries of the world. Slovenians will also be getting older, so the law is even more necessary, although today we have here again somehow an opinion, as it is already called, pro et contra, different opinions. It's okay. We believe that the picture of the population, especially the age picture, will change in Slovenia. We expect that in the 2060 age group over 65 years there will be 30% of the population. And we must also somehow be prepared for these challenges, and that is what is happening today. Once again, there are reasons for this marriage. The law is the fact that the increased need for long-term care also increases the need for additional sources of funding, as has already been said. The European Commission has already reminded us several times, since 2013 and back and in recent 2018/2019 reports, of the so-called systematic regulation of long-term care and, of course, of financial sustainability. If I touch further on the need to implement health reforms, in long-term care that will ensure quality and accessibility; and this has been heard several times today, that is also the case. We are working with this law, we are implementing reforms, because we are predicting some of the situations we want to be and we need to be prepared for. For a long time, this law, some 20 years ago, has somehow seen the first reading in the National Assembly. Now let's leave who was where. We've got him on the table. This government is actually sensitive to our elderly and responds quickly to the problems of the most vulnerable groups. I would not want to overly criticize back, but the response of the previous governments and competent ministries, which have long-term care, was more likely. Well, today, on the opposition's side, we're also hearing some insights about how you're going to finance this. Look, we're going to fund it by finally getting our parents and grandparents out of their homes to Croatia and into nursing homes to Croatia, even to private people. That's how we'll fund it. Even now, some funds are already provided for the existing long-term care system, for everything then, I don't know, for various social matters. [[Incomprehensible]] In fact, if we are discovered, we also have several laws here under which this is now being implemented, namely the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the Law on Health Activity, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and the Law on Social Protection. And it's all about some resources now. Now, if we're going to make things better, we're going to have to add something. So what is the long - term supply bill? This is the legal basis for solving the problem of also waiting for admission to the DSOs and also to other institutions. And so it is somehow a combination of all these previously mentioned laws, a system law that will provide better and fairer service of long-term care and also good control. It is therefore important to be aware that this is a complex and diverse service. It does not matter who and how good it will be, whether it can be implemented in such a way that the right to care and care is best and equally guaranteed to users that users are also satisfied. However, it is known that after the old long-term care system there have also been some irregularities related to the measurement of needs, the unequal position of users, training of staff and uneducated staff. We know all this, and that's why we're moving on and trying to make things better. In this present law, the right to long-term care can be exercised in four basic ways or, as Minister Poklukar said, the use mechanisms are long-term care in the institution, long-term care at home, a provider of a family member, and compensation for long-term care. This kind of embraces the entire population in these mechanisms. It also tries to work on deinstitutionalisation, which means that those who want to stay in their home environment, even at their old age, are allowed to do so; especially in the countryside there are so many. If we say so, we are aware that, in order to increase the needs, financial resources must also be provided, but something has been spent so far, in fact, it has to be covered in part by the budget. In 2025, however, somehow a new law on long-term care insurance, because it will also have the funds provided. The proposal for a long-term supply law is good and is worthy of support. I thank each Member of any parliamentary group in advance on behalf of myself and on behalf of Slovenian people for supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug now has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I am a little surprised to hear this exercise of the coalition Members on how good this law is. In our parliamentary group, I must say, we are in very great distress, just as colleague Maša used to say. Knowing how urgently we need this law, how people really need it, how we should have it yesterday 10 years ago, because today, after all these discussions, we probably all know what the content of this law should be. On the other hand, we now have something on the table that is not enough of what I was just talking about. And the marriage isn't good, it's not good. If you were good, you would be most pleased to support him, of course, and not to complicate it at all. But of course we have a problem and a dilemma. We have also had a thorough discussion with the Minister in our parliamentary group, and we do not really know what. Our purpose, of course, is now to let it go through the first reading, to see which of these words and promises will still be corrected and what will be taken into account, but then this must of course prove to be. Why? I am sorry to have so short a time left for me by my colleague that I cannot do as my colleague Jani went through all the articles and through all the content. It's hard for me to do it that way. First point, first starting point – funding. It is difficult now to talk about some response, it is difficult to talk about how this government is aware of the needs of the elderly, but if we have skipped the basic premise in essence; and this is funding. Even though we have this law on the table, even though you will raise your hands to all those who now ensure that it is good, this law will not be allowed to be implemented for the reasons mentioned earlier. There are not certain things in there, what we have, what will belong to, how will, who will control it, who will determine how something will be allocated to someone. That's true, as you say, complex things. And each of the citizens and citizens who will apply long-term care services, of course their needs are like a rainbow – extremely different. One is enough to remind them that they have to take their daily dose of tablets; or to remind them to turn off the stove — now very much on my mind — and others need complete care 24 hours a day. And these are very different things. And here I also agree that even the staff that does these things does not need only to be highly qualified, not only; therefore, for this 24-hour supply definitely. Bring some stuff from the store, remind them to pay the bills to take the pills, probably not. But at this point, we're having extremely serious problems with our personnel. Exceptional problems with the frame. Last news from the fall hospital is that they're inviting a student to participate. Now, of course, I'm talking about medical personnel in the hospital. And this is also one of the questions that we discussed in our parliamentary group when we also received the answers to invite other types of personnel and the kinesiologists to national professional qualifications. Everything's nice and good, but we have to have a plan for this, and we have to have the exact numbers, and this frame won't come with today to tomorrow, it won't come overnight. It is necessary to plan briefly, in the middle and in the long run, where we will get these shots, how we will deploy them. This is difficult to do if we do not know what services are covered in this law at all. It's hard to do that then. And it is difficult to make a financial assessment, which we now have on the table, but I am very hard to imagine what it was made of, but if the law is so very flat-rate and everything else will be determined in more detail by the rules and by law. Eight other laws need to be amended so that they can function at all. Then someone else can tell me that it is possible for the law to begin. That's not possible. We are not talking here about some small money that we will now hide from the budget as long as we do; or, as the colleague said, we will now take a step further. But if there's no finances, there's no moving forward. If it cannot be implemented, there is no step forward. But of course, it's very nice to put the hooks up in the jumbo poster state, but those hooks are empty, just like those two billion for health care, to understand each other, and I've already pointed out that. And that's exactly what happened, and here you guys were waving and laughing during my debate, that's exactly what happened. Let's just say what kind of money we're talking about. In 2022 we are talking about 200 million, according to your estimates by 2025 already about 750. About 750; but I'm going to bet, like I'm sitting here, that this isn't a real assessment, because, as we say, we don't know what we're going to fund, because there's no law in the law. And this assessment will certainly become a higher number. Definitely. But we, with all these things that you're sharing so generously now, and we've been talking about it for the last time, we won't be able to do it in 2023. 2023, about 2025. We won't be able to take it anymore because she won't be able to take any more. Because it's very nice to write a marriage today in four years, when you say to yourself, "Eh, because that's how others will sit here, they will, but they will fix it, and we made that empty hook. But you can't do that. It's not serious, it's not responsible, and with that, the people who need it won't have it. They won't. Then it's another thing. There was no dialogue with all stakeholders, which, of course, started now mass advertising. Every day we practically get some responses. The association of pensioners' associations is against, the Institute of Health Insurance is against, it warns of unacceptable risks, the company Srebrna nit is against, and here is also very important what the company Srebrna nit points out to be understood, which is the cost of standard accommodation. So there's a limit to where this price goes, because that's essential, that's essential. And that's not in here. The Community of Social Institutions – the same, union centres, the Union of Retired Persons, the Confederation of Public Sector Unions, the Union of Blind and Disabled Associations, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, individual municipalities; this all comes to us now, and it all points out that everything is not okay in this law. I can only join that professional council where there are nine public bureaucrat officials in the professional world, so we don't lose words at all. But as a matter of fact, knowing how much we need all this together, how late we are. With the hope that you will also take what has already been done to the table, we will let the law go through the first reading and, of course, we will expect substantial improvements in the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Eva Irgle. Get ready, Mrs. Moica the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, let me say that I am pleased that Mr Židan said in the debate that we are doing well on the work committee I am leading and that we are somehow introducing good practices in this cooperation. I can say that, of course, we will continue to work well, and in particular for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I must say in opening that I am surprised that today, especially on the opposition side, there are so few Members present in such an important marriage at the time of its hearing in the National Assembly; but let it be, however, the first reading. The more detailed dissection of the law will be one way or another when it is first addressed by the Health Committee and then again in the National Assembly. So we are talking about the law on long - term care. We've been talking about this law for 20 years. In 2002, the first draft of the law was prepared, and in these 20 years, I think, after the proposed six bills of law, different public debates were held. Always, but always and every time, this has been discussed with the secretary of state outside, it's stuck in funding. And there was something else that was a problem. It was not only a problem of funding, but it was also a problem that the preparation of the law — probably confirmed at the Ministry — moved from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of Health all the time, and back to the Ministry of Labour back to the Ministry of Health. Then, in 2013, the government adopted the starting points for the preparation of the proposal for a long-term care law, and then another proposal was prepared in 2015, and we replaced again the Ministry, which will take care of the long-term care law. And also, I have to say, there was nothing different about this term. First of all, it was a law on long-term care at the Ministry of Labour, where I personally assess that it is the best one, that is my personal opinion, and then it was transferred to the Ministry of Health and today thank God we finally have it before us. I think that's an important step. This was the first time in twenty years, even though some laws had already been prepared. Several pilot projects were also made. I think these pilot projects were done in Celje, Krk and Dravograd. It is interesting, however, that very much money has been spent not only on these pilot projects, but also on documentation alone, some 75 million euros, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out. It was actually a key observation from the audit, but now we are where we are. This is the situation, the situation is what I said it was, but today we have a long-term care law ahead of us. The law is in the first reading. It shall be provided with appropriations from the budget. The law solves many of the issues that have been raised both in professional circles and in political debates all these years. And I think we have today a law that is good and that offers quite a few important substantive solutions that are urgently needed for this country. One solution that I would like to discuss more is the regulation of the status of family helpers. Why do I talk about it or point it out? Especially because I've been fighting for this status for myself for years at a time. I talked to the president of the family assistant section several times, analyzed the situation, told her about what was going on in this area, and I was at the Social Chamber, where we had a meeting on this subject, and then I called on it later, and I think, even two meetings on the Human Rights Commission, then on the Labour Committee. I must say that I have always stood in the position that the regulation of the status of family assistants should be within my own law. But today I am grateful that if it is not already regulated in my law, the government has made an effort and is today regulated within the long - term care law. For you must know that family helpers are doing a very difficult, difficult job, but at the same time a very noble work. Here we need to know that this is something completely different than a personal assistant. Two days ago or yesterday, we adopted a new Law on Personal Assistance. We will now also arrange for the status of family assistants. A family assistant is available to a disabled person 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, throughout the year. A family assistant has no work-related rights, so he does not receive a regression, has no leave, has no hospital status or leave. In short, all of this is regulated today within the long - term care system. And that's right. And it's the right thing to do. Also a payment to family helpers, which, of course, must be fair. I am surprised that such solutions are opposed by the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions and even calls on Members to reject the law on long-term care. I think that's completely unacceptable. If not otherwise, we also regulate the status of family helpers after a long period of years. And if this law is not adopted, then, of course, the law on family helpers must be passed on its own immediately, for this matter must be resolved. But I think that today at least a few wills have been shown in this room, including by opposition parliamentary groups, and I think that the law through first reading will certainly go through, which is important. Otherwise, there are content that is particularly important for today’s time. It has been said many times that we are a rapidly growing society. Thus, the proportion of the older population is increasing, and there is no doubt that it needs help in everyday life. The purpose of the law is therefore to ensure that beneficiaries have access to comparable rights with comparable needs, which will then be financed by public funding in a higher proportion. If we look at the data, we can see that today there are 19.7% in Slovenia of older people over 65 years of age. However, projections show that the proportion of this population will be 30% in 2050. Of course, we have to deal with this and adopt a law on long-term care as soon as possible. To be perfectly honest, I don't understand that it's actually possible that there's so much time, that we've been moving things for 20 years that we all know today that we should have been adopted 20 years ago, but we're still talking about it and there are still concerns. But when you wait for a marriage for about 20 years, of course, the easiest thing to do in the opposition is to wait another year or two years. And I think that one day it is necessary simply to make an end of it and the matter that is ready today must be taken up. I think she's good, and I think she'll be very helpful to all those who need long-term care. I will definitely support the marriage. Also below, after we have discussed on the committees, I will give my opinion and position, and the fact is that things are still open. Now that's the first reading, some things can change, but it's only right to allow the law to continue its journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Moica the Boxer. Get ready, Mrs. Lydia Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. As the predecessor said, we've been hearing about the long-term care law for 20 years. 20 years. At that time, my parents grew old, became sick, and died, and they were not granted that right. Will we wait another 20 years? Do you think that's right? The law before us today is, according to its scope and complexity, a good marriage. It is based on the right to long-term care, as Slovenia is a social state, as the Constitution says. It is based on solidarity and contains principles of universality and equality. Funding will be carried out under the law of compulsory insurance and other public resources. If you're saying today that there's no proper funding, that's not true. The law in its Article 17 specifically discusses the basis for calculating the level of financing of non-monetary rights in long-term care, i.e. in the public long-term supply network, and also in other articles. As far as this is concerned, it will, of course, determine the cash register or budget. How people will work will be determined by the rule of law, as some of this is already included in the annex. Normatives may also vary according to the type of service and should all be described. The law is therefore based on justice, is based on solidarity and also offers flexibility. It's about public service. This means that this service is accessible to all; and this service can be provided by homes for the elderly, other legal persons, including independent entrepreneurs, natural persons and operators of complementary activities on the farm. The issue is that this long-term care is as accessible as possible, and I think that this solution has brought the law against citizens and citizens. The law also makes sense as the highest document lays down the national programme and long-term care policies and a plan for the development of long-term care. This is already a more operational document that tells us exactly how this service will develop. The law also says a lot about territorial organisation, it speaks of a public network that takes into account the number of inhabitants and also the number of people over 65 and the population over 80 years of age, because these are all factors that condition the density and intensity of the public network. The law also speaks of quality care. The Ministry of Health is obliged under this law to establish a system of quality management. We hear a great deal about this quality, but it needs to be established; and for this there are tools and measurements. The law establishes professionalism as one of the principles and therefore introduces an expert council that gives opinions on proposals for laws and strategic solutions. The services are described in chapter Rights, services and categories of long-term care; however, we must not mix rights and services. Rights are general, they are principled, but services are acts that enable these rights. And the insured person has from public sources the right to long-term care in an institution with a monthly level of funding, then long-term care at home with a monthly amount of funding, cash or family member provider. You see, it offers a lot of options, and it is a very good opportunity for a person to stay at home, while only he can take care of himself with the help of his assistants or the provider of a family member. So it's flexible, it offers the possibility that people can decide whether they'll be home as long as they can, or whether they'll go to a nursing home. However, while we are already at the homes for elderly people and talking, we know that 70 million were allocated to studies in the budgets of the previous government, for studies, for studies on home building. Studies are written. Here some members, specifically from the LMSH, spoke for 45 minutes, or it is true that something is very good if you talk a lot about it or if you write a lot about it. Of course, something has to be written, but this government not only writes and speaks but also works; and it is known at every step. If you step out of this building, you'll see anywhere, either in the city or in the village, it's working. And it works in all areas. To work now in the field of long - term care, however, it is a walnut in which it has clearly been able to bite only this government. It's easy to salt your mind and talk about what's wrong. And that's what those who have had the opportunity for decades and more to take advantage of it and do something, and they haven't done anything, they're just criticizing. These are completely unworthy people who are salting their minds today. I respect those who may not fully agree with this law, who see the possibilities for corrections, but of course I would invite them to say in detail what and how to fix it, not only – something is wrong, it is necessary. It's just a fling. It is necessary to say exactly what needs to be done, and we have not heard much about it today. At the same time, we listened to Left’s observations about some privacy and so on. Officials aren't having any fun. Individuals are sitting or former private individuals, who have also settled their survival with private work, such as Members of the SAB and Members of the SD, and there is nothing wrong with them. There's nothing to tell if they've been working under the law. I think the marriage is appropriate and extremely welcome, and I think all people will be happy with it. However, there is no doubt in the next debate that there is still room for improvement, but it is indeed good to come up with concrete solutions that will really mean improvements, not with Flossules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lidija Ivanusha has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr. Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u132	Madam President, thank you for saying so. All in attendance, all in attendance! Much has already been said about this subject today, but the fact is that the population in Slovenia is old, and so must we face the same pressing issues as other European countries. How can our elderly ones make their autumn life more beautiful or beautiful? Above all, how can they be returned for all the years when the hard work was the pillar of the Slovenian economy and the social state? Long-term care is the only possible solution to ensure a quality life at a late age. The law before us sets out the following solutions in the area of long-term care, for the first time, the precise definition of the definition of long-term care, the unification of the legal basis governing the right in this area, the definition of the content and scope of rights and the set of long-term care services. Fourthly, the establishment of a single evaluation mechanism for entering the system, the creation of a comprehensive universally accessible geographical and financial sustainable and achievable system. Allow the beneficiary wishing to do so to remain in the home environment as long as possible with appropriate assistance; to place in the centre of the long-term care system an individual who chooses to exercise his or her right. Managing the increasing private financing of individuals who increase the risk of poverty, mainly of the older population. Improving the planning, management and quality assurance, safety and effectiveness of long-term care as a public service and establishing effective public oversight in the area of long-term care management. It is therefore a law that will systematically regulate the area of long-term care, which in practice means that any elderly person wishing to do so will have easy and direct access to long-term health and social services. The range of services includes basic daily tasks, support daily tasks, health care related to basic daily tasks, maintenance and independence services as an important segment of strengthening an individual with the highest possible degree of self-sustainment or prevention against the higher need to assist another person in meeting basic and supporting daily tasks. The proposal for a long-term supply law also introduces the possibility of e-supply, which can significantly increase the quality and safety of the lives of beneficiaries in the home environment; reduces the burden on non-formal care providers and reduces the need for staff where a distance service can replace physical presence. We all want our parents and old parents to live a decent life and that we too will have this opportunity. The law that stands before us, this right, the right to decent ageing and the right to a full and pleasant life, also in age. Because I want all elderly people in Slovenia to have access to long-term care and all services that provide them with a peaceful and quality autumn of life, I will support the bill. And it is truly sad, on the one hand, that every law that the government imposes, which we all know, you, too, in the opposition, are seeking solutions, you are dementing all of this, instead of pulling out something good and positive for our elderly and in the final stage also for us in the future. You've had the opportunity to settle this area for a long time, but you haven't. This government has embarked on this complex area and has found a lot of solutions that govern this area, so it would be only right for you to support this law for everything, as my colleague Ferjan said. I'd say that for the end. It's always a matter of where we take it. However, I and probably the vast majority of citizens and citizens are interested in where you have given up, because in Slovenia very little has been done in this area in the last decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And last reported is Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Much has been said by our colleagues, why we are doing everything new, they will probably also reply from both ministries that we are not doing anything new, but in fact we have been working with the law for so many years to build on the knowledge and things that turn out in practice, as I said in my introduction. Some things are already going on, we know the care in institutions, in the homes of older citizens, so we know what the shortcomings are, what should be done and how. Moreover, the colleague says that it is not clear what will be co-financed. Things are very well described why all people can benefit from these funds or what is understood and foreseen under long-term care, that is, aid in basic daily tasks, assistance in supporting daily tasks, health care related to these daily tasks, strengthening and maintaining self-sufficiency and e-services, and so on. So far, it has not been possible to say or precisely identify all sources of funding. We know that we have been talking for a long time about raising the contribution rate or a new tax. However, as the European Commission warns us, resources of funding need to be dispersed so that it does not happen to us after what was said to us in the 2013 crisis, when people have lost their jobs and no contributions have been paid and so on and this has meant significantly less resources for these purposes. We have the law on the table, and I estimate that many comments, as well as others' proposals, can be taken into account; or answers to questions that may have been raised today. In the position of the Group of Members, I have already said that the unions have left the Economic and Social Council, from where they would coordinate and discuss this law. Let me remind you that some governments did not have the Economic and Social Council at all, and we in the opposition have warned that this dialogue should be established. This government did this and talked, but someone else didn't want to talk, the Confederation of Trade Unions that left these talks because they thought it wasn't all they wanted to talk about, but it's very rare in life everything is what they wanted. It is always necessary to compromise, to find a common way, because of course there are different interests and it is necessary to find the best possible option. I believe that we will also improve further questions or what things we will add. I'm sure there's already some kind of submarital act or regulations and so on. According to the information we have received that projects have already been piloted in various institutes, in Celje and elsewhere, the Koroška dom duplica, the Health House Celje and the Centre for Social Work in Krko; and that this will also run and will see through this what needs are. We know, for the most part, how people react and what they need. It also seems very important to me that all these volunteers from pension societies, who are already very helpful, are actually involved, and the law is also ready in the sense that all these powers are brought together to join in aiding or carrying out long-term care. What matters to me is that it will be more unified control. As in most areas in this country, it seems to me that our control is always limping. We see that there are false vaccination certificates at all ends and places, and so on. In short, control is very important, so that there is no use of resources, unreasonable spending, or even people pay something and they don't get it. I support the law. In our parliamentary group, as we have said, we certainly support it and expect to improve it in the process to be carried out in the National Assembly, perhaps where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Secretary of State Alenka Forte, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I must express my satisfaction that the proposal for a long-term care law has taken the first step. Throughout the debate, you have expressed a lot of constructive suggestions, concerns, which are very close to us, because we feel that we are all clinging to this law, just as our Slovenian aging society has. Your comments, constructive and also critical, will be taken very seriously. The law, we are aware, is not perfect, is a proposal for a law that I hope we will work together and make it better; but certainly better than we have now. In fact, our elderly people today do not have access to the long-term care model that most European countries have. We are probably the last, if not the last, to address this important area through appropriate legislation and services. Today we know of course some care, either in homes, social welfare institutions and also of course some home care, but, as the covida-19 crisis has shown, this system of care for the elderly is weak and insufficient because it is not quality enough. Our homes are overcrowded, they have very low standards. And of course, the solution is not that all people who are older and need some help are put in institutions. The essence of this law is to build a system that targets an individual in his needs, an elderly person who is a sick, disabled person. So we're going to build a system where we're going to try to put an individual in the center and build around it a supply system that we're talking about as integrated care. The services that an individual will need will be brought closer to him. There have been many criticisms in the debate that there are no rules that there is no such thing. And as a result, we have an individual who has certain needs who must through quality systems evaluate his deficits. Only after we identify the individual’s condition and needs and take into account his wishes can we determine the exact content of this long - term care. I see that you Members have deepened quite a bit, you know the essence of the law in these articles, and, of course, we will be able to have a very concrete conversation here. The essence of this law is to upgrade the system that we know today to bring services to the individual's home environment and to ensure that this supply is quality, safe and comparable, which means that the person who resides in Prekmurje or Primorski will receive an equivalent treatment through the system of assessment and construction of integrated care. For comparable needs, we need to find comparable rights because today we are far from that. And just an example of a person who has suffered a stroke and is waiting for accommodation at home. It usually gets stuck somewhere in its home environment, perhaps the elderly partner cares about it, and this is actually a typical case of a patient or a ward that is not adequately provided. And through the system we're putting in place, we're going to make sure that the insurer, regardless of whether he's staying at home, in the institution, or whether he has home care to be comparable through the services he needs. Many criticisms have been expressed on the funding model and many Members have yourselves found that, of course, the biggest problem is funding. And when we're talking about funding, we'd point to Europe. Europe, as well as the OECD, reminds us that the system that relies on one source of funding is extremely unstable. So let's say our health system is funded. And so in Article 48, we describe how we imagine ourselves, and it's a matter of common agreement, what is what will provide us with that manna we see over the years. And, of course, we have to look at it for a decade ahead. So when we talk about financing, it must be the broadest common decision, the widest common decision of the whole society. A society that is responsible for an ageing population; and, of course, we are one of the oldest societies and we need to find a way. It was apparent that the demographic fund was in Article 48(4). We were really hoping at a time when this law was being prepared to invest in this high assembly, we were really confident that this demographic fund would come to life. And of course we have a lot of other resources to decide on, because only if one right is financed from different sources is it a stable system. It wouldn't be too long because the opportunity will be enough. I hope that this High Council will give its support, that this law goes into further procedure and there will be plenty of opportunities for us to talk in depth and that we will make the good law that Slovenian society needs by listening constructively and by adopting proposals from all those who make constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I take it it's an interest. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please sign up by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got two reports. Each one gets five minutes. Mag. Andrei Reich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members! There is no doubt that we need the Long-Terms Act. And the problems that are going on and the consequences of a long-lived society are simply to be solved, because the situation of people who care about disabled relatives is really difficult; and therefore we support all the efforts that are going in the direction of solving this problem, which is acute, in the SAB party. However, we have very serious concerns about this law, and we also expect them to be addressed in the next stages, that the basket of rights is clearly defined and that it is also clearly defined as how we will pay for these matters. Because if we are talking about costs in 2025 – about 700 million euros, if we have undefined revenues, then we are talking about the same contribution as we are paying today for supplementary health insurance. That's what we're talking about. Since three matters are linked to an ageing society, i.e. an increase in the expenditure on pensions, an increase in health care costs and the introduction of long-term care, there will, of course, be a clear social consensus on how we will finance this. We know that treatment is becoming more expensive with the age and development of new medicines. We know that the state budget will have to make an additional contribution to cover the pension gap if we do not raise the contribution rate or increase the retirement age, as the OECD has warned these days. And here comes the question of this contribution to long-term care. And here we have to reach a social agreement and consensus, a consensus between all generations, that is, a consensus among the active generation that pays for these systems. We must be aware that we have a flow system, and therefore this system must be solidarity and fair so that it does not cause conflict between generations. Therefore, our concerns and warnings are still well founded on the need to speak with honest and clear figures, and on the other hand to provide quality and under the same conditions accessible long-term care to all. So we are talking not only about the long-term care of older people, but also about long-term care and care in all life situations. And this is a matter that we must address and deal with appropriately. And we also expect an appropriate response and clarification from the government here. And since the government announces tax reforms where it reduces tax revenues on the one hand, on the other hand, it adopts laws where it cannot explain how we will implement them, of course it raises a number of questions. I would like to point out here that there is no balance for this year's budget, and it should be because it rules with decisions. As the Fiscal Council warns, a number of issues about the sustainability of public finances are raised here. It does not seem right to me that we are essentially discussing some of the obligations without knowing how we will meet these obligations and pay them. Especially in the area of long-term care, health care, when we know that staff, experts in border areas that have the capacity to work in Austria, go to do these things in Austria because we are unable or because current payments are not attractive enough. I therefore appeal here once again that the basket of rights arising from this be clearly defined and that it is clear how we will pay and finance these obligations, especially in the light of the announced tax burden on the budget. This gap, on the one hand, when obligations increase and rights increase and, on the other hand, where income is expected to decrease, makes it clear that the traveller is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Good evening! Dear Vice President! I think we as a society have two key challenges ahead. One is climate change, which we will talk about in a few moments in the National Assembly, and the other is the actual ageing of society, at least in this part of the world. And it is imperative that the ageing of society through long-term care be addressed as qualitatively as possible, at least in Slovenia the most plastic display or has been shown in the situation in nursing homes over the past 20 years. I think at the moment we have 12,000 people waiting on the bed, 50,000 applications for a place in the homes. According to Community data, social institutions also lack up to 50% of the workforce, people who are underpaid for their hard work at the start; and it is understood that they have every reason to run either in another profession or in another country to carry out the same profession. And the key problem or the reason for this situation is because, as a society and as a country, we have seen and understood the past policy of solving this problem through some market logic. The problem that I am putting forward in the light of the current proposal is that it continues with such logic. At least in this mandate, from 2018 until now; here perhaps I answer to Ambassador Juret Ferjan, who shot the opposition with the obvious suspicion that we have not yet given a solution. I myself have been present in these many, several dozen debates in the National Assembly, when we dissected the problem in nursing homes, the issue of long-term care and came together with Members to conclude that some really systemic solutions we don't even need to solve and heal those most current open wounds, such as the Staff Regulations, and that story with double charge for basic services, to cut nails and so on, all these stories. And whenever an initiative came to the plate to sort these things out, we were set before a stop sign – wow, these things don't have to be solved now, this thing will solve the coming law on long-term care. And now we have a long-term care law here, and anyone could call -- okay, finally, this solution came and all the problems we've been alerting us to are now on the line. But what this law actually offers is this: it puts us in front of a stop sign and says – in fact, no, this solution and financial equipment will offer another law that will come into the future. For 18 years waiting for the long-term care law, which is now on our tables for the first time, has now been extended for an indefinite period of time, waiting for another law to make sure that these things can be realized in practice. As I explained earlier in the position of the Group of Members, we are quite critical in this law in Levica. First, at a point that has also come up most frequently in the debate of Members and Members; vague financing or pointing fingers at someone else; at someone who comes to this government and arranges or figures out how a project as extensive as long-term care will be financed in an ageing society; and then systematically, how this kind of funding will come about; and all levers will be arranged in a way that will then shift to private pockets. In the meantime, the pensioners are waiting, while the station and the living are waiting, running to Austria and I don't know what; the colleague from SDS would be solving the matter with the volunteers. In the Group of the Levites, if the last word is mine, I summarise the position, this law and such attempts will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 26 October 2021 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. With regard to this motion for a resolution, the group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed Matjaz Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u142	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, everyone else present, welcome! I know that you may be wondering why the four members of the group, namely, the Social Democrats, the List of Marjan Šarc, the Party of the Left and the Party of Alenka Bratušek, have requested a debate at all, even though the committee responsible has already voted against or has not gathered enough votes for this resolution. The answer is simple. This National Assembly may or may not deny that we are living in the midst of an environmental and climate crisis. Whatever this national assembly concludes, we will live and we live within the environmental and climate crisis. It is therefore important that we recognize this and also accept it as a recognition of this national assembly in this composition. It is likely that we will try MEPs and Members again before the elections or not. If not before, we will succeed in the next composition, because I believe that customers who do not deny environmental and climate problems will have a strong majority in the next assembly. The announcement and recognition of the environmental and climate crisis are, of course, in parliaments for some kind of declaration, which gives a ton to the following measures. This is also why the European Parliament adopted a similar resolution. And when we fight to recognize the environmental and climate crisis in Slovenia, we experience at least two opposite arguments. The first counter argument is ridiculous – it is another leftist conspiracy. Well, please. The Vatican has also declared the environmental and climate crisis. Are you sure this is about the socialist enclave?Oh, my God! I'm pretty sure it's not working. Another interesting argument is that we have to be somewhere first and our society again, give our economy some additional demands or, to our home, make additional costs. But that argument doesn't hold up either. This argument, however, cannot be held back because we cannot possibly be the first. The first responded to countries living in a similar climate zone as Slovenia, i.e. Mediterranean, because there will be consequences here and the consequences are already the worst. And you have to do more than anything else. As an interesting thing to say, this kind of recognition was achieved by, say, the neighbours of Austria, all political parties, except for extreme freedom-makers. Such recognition that they are living in a time of environmental and climate crisis has been successful in Italy, they have been able to do so in France, Spain, Portugal. Why am I mentioning these countries? Because these countries live in a situation similar to that of Slovenia, and I am quite sure that they have also read the latest report from a group of experts working for the United Nations to unfortunately have bad information. And this bad information is that the crisis is bigger than they thought, and what they hoped would not happen in 2050 will happen in 2030. The most interesting thing is, listen to that we will be affected almost twice as much in Slovenia as the average in the world. Therefore, honourable Members, today we are discussing the proclamation of the environmental and climate crisis, of course, with a view to checking whether we will come before the elections again. I would like to know if the parties that are going to the elections are hoping to go to the polls as negatives of the environmental and climate crises. We have four objectives in the resolution itself. The first objective is general and accepted, talking about the decarbonisation of society by 2050. The second objective is no longer clear in Slovenia. At European Union level, we have committed ourselves to certain objectives by 2030 and we would like to deny them in Slovenia all the time. The third goal, respected and respected, is energy poverty, which has been knocking on the door since yesterday, not until tomorrow. And the next goal, respected and respected, is to speak of our right, and in particular our duty to take care of other habitats. We are responsible for what will happen to plant species, we are responsible for what will happen to animal species. Therefore, the signatories to this resolution will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. At its 32nd meeting, on 6 October 2021, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the working body as a parent. As the Committee did not adopt the chapters of the motion for a resolution after the discussion, consideration of the motion for a resolution was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u144	Your Honor! At its 32nd meeting, on 6 October 2021, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft resolution on climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. An additional explanation for the motion for a resolution was submitted by the Magi on behalf of the applicant. Diane Jedhan. He pointed out that climate change is a fact and that it is happening even faster than expected not long ago. The new forecasts show a significant deterioration in the atmosphere by 2030. In doing so, the area of Eastern and Southern Europe, including Slovenia, should be one of the most pronouncedly exposed to climate warming. In light of this fact, some Mediterranean countries have already declared a climate and environmental crisis. He stressed that climate warming would be the most affected for patients and older people who would become more threatened by an increasing number of temperature shocks. Climate change will also have a negative impact on a number of economic sectors, and agriculture will be particularly difficult to adapt to, as it will not be possible to irrigate all agricultural areas because there is neither technology nor sufficient water resources for this. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space and Secretary of State Robert Rožanc stressed that the Government does not support the motion for a resolution, as he believes that the conclusions of the measures and recommendations in the motion for a resolution refer in particular to two documents already adopted, namely the Resolution on Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050 and the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme for 2020-2030. These documents already set an important objective of climate neutrality, which Slovenia sees in 2050 as a society adapted and climate-resilient, based on sustainable development and fair cost-sharing and the benefits of transition, and set out guidelines for achieving the global objectives of sustainable development as defined by the 2030 Agenda. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the motion for a resolution. In the Commission's view, any attempt to help the country respond more quickly to climate change is welcome. In the debate, the panellists from the types of proposer expressed their support for the motion for a resolution. They warned that it was scientifically proven that extreme weather events would become more frequent and climate change more rapid and more pronounced. In doing so, it is particularly worrying that the average temperature in Slovenia will rise by 3 to 4 degrees in 2050 unless appropriate action is taken. They pointed out that the motion for a resolution is of a declaratory nature and has no direct legal effect, but it gives the political direction of the country to take action to deal with climate change and to deal with it and follows the European Parliament's climate general and declaration document and a large number of European countries that have already declared the environmental and climate crisis. SDS Member Ljubo Žnidar pointed out that the fact that we are facing a climate and environmental crisis, in which Slovenia will also have to take measures to ensure that life on the planet continues. He pointed out, however, that we already have legislation in many areas in Slovenia, which is very restrictive and restrictive and therefore often causes problems for people. As an example, Slovenia has, according to its surface area, the largest area under Natura 2000, where people have to live with many environmental constraints, which often also prevent, for example, the environmentally acceptable development of economic potential in the field of tourism. He pointed out that in the future, in the fight against climate change, attention will also have to be paid to this issue and appropriate compromises will be found, which will include such proper compliance with environmental standards while at the same time allowing for further economic development. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together and did not adopt them. Therefore, on the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. 2009 deals with the motion for a resolution on the home working body completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u146	Presidents, Members, thank you for the floor. I'm afraid I should apologize for changing the schedule. We have just now in half an hour of Pre-COP26, where we will discuss commitments not only to the European Union, but also to the other countries for the climate conference starting next week. Somehow, at the Ministry of Environment and Space and also as the Government, we have adopted the view that the resolution contained in the content is not inadequate, but already covered by two documents, namely, the first, the latest document adopted on 13 July in the National Assembly, this is the Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050; and, as previously said, the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030. There are also more concrete objectives set, also set in a comprehensive national programme, which we will now have to restore. Within this COP26, Fit for 55 is also being prepared, where certain measures already set out in both the climate strategy adopted this year and the NEPN will be more concrete and a concrete deadline will be set for them. These objectives, conclusions and actions, cited in this motion for a resolution on the declaration of the climate crisis, are summarised, as I have already stressed, in the climate strategy that has been adopted. They will also be defined in detail in these individual measures, which we coordinate at the level forward of the European Union, where – I must say – there is no single position. Today, however, we also have in particular other countries that contribute most to climate change. However, I would like to point out once again because our advantage in Slovenia is that we still have many protected areas, a lot of nature and also as regards forests and the associated CO2 leakage, much more than all other European countries. From this point of view, we do not support this resolution, which is a duplication of something that has already been adopted. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek and Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u148	Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State, Applicants, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Climate change, as we have seen, is unforgivable. In the course of our lives, no matter what measures we take, we can no longer stop them, but we can adapt to them. The measures that will be implemented by reducing greenhouse gas emissions as a company today will have an impact only decades from now. The report and findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of the United Nations of this August are of great concern. Among other things, the report notes that there is no work on earth that would not be heated. It notes that the land is warming twice as fast as the sea, notes that by 2030 the limit of raising the global temperature of 1.5 degrees Celsius will be exceeded; no matter what measures we take. For Slovenia, the report identifies catastrophic consequences: raising average sea level by one metre, raising average summer temperature by 3 to 4 degrees Celsius, intensifying extreme weather events, drought, floods, frosts, changes in vegetation, raising forest borders, reducing snow blanket duration by at least 30 days, and the occurrence of hundred-year watercourse flows each year. That is why, at the initiative of our Group of Members, we also had a thematic meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, where we addressed the worrying findings of the International Panel on Climate Change at the United Nations Organisation and adopted two conclusions which instructed the Government to adopt, within 60 days, a legislative package for reducing and mitigating climate change in the field of transport, renewable energy, energy efficiency and to ensure the full implementation of the NEPN. Today, again, for the third time, we are considering the motion for a resolution on climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, as the environmental situation is clearly deteriorating. The report of the International Panel also makes it clear that human activity is responsible for warming the atmosphere. In the SAB Group, we support any attempt to contribute to the country's action for more ambitious measures to avoid natural disasters. The effects of climate change can be seen in record warm years, more frequent heat waves, droughts, floods and storms. For too long we have ignored warnings of nature, now is the time to set targets for achieving climate resilience. On the 5th anniversary of the signing of the Paris Agreement, the Secretary-General of the United Nations called on world leaders to declare extraordinary climate change in their countries until carbon neutrality is achieved. This call is precisely the reason why, in the opposition, we decided to submit that resolution to the National Assembly. To date, many European countries, including Austria, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta, the Vatican, have already declared an environmental and climate crisis, and the proposed resolution has been rejected for the second time. For the resolution, the National Assembly notes that, due to the warming of the atmosphere, the impact of climate change on the environment, the state of biodiversity, the reduction of natural resources, the deterioration of living conditions and the country's overcapacity for self-recovery and self-cleaning in the climate and environmental crisis. The resolution is such a political message, a message to all citizens, civil society and the economy that it is necessary to deal with measures to prevent and mitigate climate change, because unfortunately we cannot stop them anymore. The measures covered by the resolution are related to the decarbonisation of many sectors – energy, agriculture, forestry, transport, economies. They aim to guide efficient and sustainable energy use. In the SAB Group, we are well aware of the climate crisis — or rather of the climate disaster. At the initiative of the SAB, the National Assembly unanimously supported an initiative whereby all pensioners, disabled persons, war veterans and older than 65 years of age drive free of charge in cross-border public passenger transport; and thus laid important foundations for the decarbonisation of transport, which contributes as much as half of the emissions of all greenhouse gases. Yesterday, on the initiative of the SAB, the second reading unanimously approved a law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain single-use plastic products, which are normally disposed of immediately after short-term use. This protects our rivers, lakes, seas, and the constitutional right to safe, clean drinking water. In the SAB, we will also be active in the future for the better tomorrow for our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, good evening to you! Climate change is a fact, as is the fact that it brings ever more extreme events, which have become increasingly common in recent years. We're talking about catastrophic floods, droughts, colds and floods, if I don't count just some. Climate change is here and now, and it has an increasing impact on our daily lives. We need to act now. In doing so, we are aware that measures and investments against climate change are costing, but these costs are significantly lower than the cost of repairing damage, lost lives, material and other damage caused by climate change. The recent floods in Germany are a good example. An even greater concern has been the findings of the recently presented report of the Intergovernmental Committee on Climate Change of the United Nations, which shows that our country is in a work that is warming twice as fast as the global average, which means that we cannot postpone the measures anymore, but we must put them into practice as soon as possible. In order to stop overheating the atmosphere, the declaration measures will no longer be sufficient, but they must be concrete, ambitious and decisive measures in several sectors. We had a motion for a resolution on the table several times in the last year. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are convinced that such a document is urgently needed, and we regret that the majority of Members on the working body have not been able to think enough and have the courage to support the document. We believe that any attempt that can help the country respond more quickly to climate change is welcome. The content of the resolution itself may not even tolerate the desired effects because of its declaratory nature, but with its symbolic message on the existence of an emergency climate situation, it is a good starting point for certain sectoral policies and the setting of more ambitious targets for achieving climate resilience in the future. While we have proposed that the document, as one of our country's climate targets, should also identify the Republic of Slovenia by 2025 to adopt and implement concrete measures to mitigate the effects of climate change, such as to protect and reduce the consequences of increasing extreme events as a result of climate change in agriculture, forestry, watercourses, water resources, infrastructure and the protection of the coast against tidal waves; and in all other areas which could be affected by such developments. We also wanted to complement the resolution by recommending that the Republic of Slovenia actively engage in international negotiations and developments or become an active participant in multilateral talks and agreements at the level of climate change with a view to establishing dialogue and finding solutions, including to calm the internal and international conflicts resulting from climate change, such as water disputes, fisheries management, land and so on. In addition, in the resolution, we wanted to stress that the most effective protection against environmental migration is, I stress environmental migration, or the search for new living space for affected people to prevent or mitigate the effects of climate change in countries that are more affected or lack sufficient resources to combat them. We are also in favour of the view that, in addition to the adoption of the resolution, the law on climate policy in Slovenia, which the former Minister of Environment and Space has already drawn up, must also be adopted, and public debate has taken place. Regrettably, however, the proposal for a law because of the government's resignation was stuck in inter-departmental coordination. Since this bill has already been on the road for a long time, the unrelated Members are calling on the Minister of the Environment to move his way forward and send him to the National Assembly as soon as possible. In our Group of Members, we fully agree with the communication emanating from the motion for a resolution. And those who disagree with this report are probably deaf and blind to the climate change situation. He's also deaf and blind to admit that we're all equally responsible for our planet. To conclude, I would like to point out that climate change is neither left nor right. We wish that the resolution, which must be substantively and professionally aligned with other documents, would represent a compass for us to act together on. After all, we must be aware of one more thing. More than declaring the climate crisis, our actions and concrete steps are important. As a first concrete step, I propose to the Government that, in accordance with the Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia, an independent scientific and professional council be established by 2050 as soon as possible in support of the Government's adoption and formulation of climate policy. I appeal to all stakeholders and decision makers to reach a political and social consensus as soon as possible on the necessary measures in the field of climate change. In doing so, it is crucial that each time the executive and legislative branches of authorities reach an agreement and that this agreement is also implemented; not everyone changes it in accordance with the current partial interests of capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u152	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! On 28 January 2019, the European Parliament declared climate emergencies. At the time of its consideration of the two resolutions, the European Parliament has laid down the obligation of the European Commission to establish a plan of action in line with the commitment to limit global warming to less than 1.5 degrees Celsius. The European Union will therefore have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and also become carbon neutral by 2050. The drafter's explanation of the motion for a resolution sets out, inter alia, the purpose of this resolution, by means of a proposed resolution, the National Assembly proclaims the exceptional climate and environmental situation in the Republic of Slovenia, setting out the country's climate objectives, measures and organisation against the exceptional climate and environmental conditions. The motion for a resolution is of a declaratory nature and has no direct legal effect, according to the motion for a resolution. It does, however, provide a political direction for the country to take action to manage climate change and to follow the European Parliament's and many European countries' climate general and declaration documents, which have declared an environmental climate crisis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the subject covered by the motion for a resolution is very extensive and difficult to resolve in this way. We believe that the motion for a resolution is well-intentioned, but it does not indicate any technical solutions or concrete guidelines for dealing with climate and environmental challenges. However, we must be aware that, given the many existing and existing documents in this area, as well as the fact that the Government is preparing a long-term climate strategy, it does not seem necessary to modify a number of new documents in this area. In our view, it would be more reasonable to work on changing people's thinking about environmental concerns. At the same time, we must be aware that issues and dilemmas in a number of areas, such as electricity and transport, are also emerging in replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy sources or transitions to a carbon-free society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye! One of the characteristics of the climate is that it is constantly changing. The problem we have today is that the rate of climate change has exploded in the last century. Our Earth just isn't cut out for it anymore. We have been reminding this in the Member States for a long time. The warning signs that nature has often shown us in recent times should not be overlooked or overlooked. Today we have a renewed motion for a resolution on climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. Not because the opposition would like to impose on the coalition, but because our concern for the environment is genuine and serious. Most likely, it is not particularly important to stress that the resolution is an act by which the National Assembly assesses the state of a particular social area, assesses the policy of regulating this area in the future and adopts a national strategy for the future. For this very reason, because it is therefore a principled act, it is all the more incomprehensible for us that the coalition opposes the adoption of such an act. Unfortunately, this time too, it is only our desires, although there is no doubt today that the climate crisis in the world is that climate change exists and that it changes our planet. It would be reasonable and responsible for Slovenia to recognise the existence of an environmental crisis, to set guidelines for future environmental policy and to respond responsibly to climate change. Unfortunately, this government and the coalition minority in the National Assembly do not have a hearing about the problems and challenges of environmental policy, since these resolutions have not once again been supported. We will not guess why they have made this decision, but this is very bad for all our citizens. Finally, the professional public points out in one voice that such a resolution with environmental policy guidelines and guidelines for tackling climate change should nevertheless be adopted. Once again, we find in the LMŠ Group that we have missed the opportunity, and we hope that when others also realize that there are steps to be taken in this area, it will not be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u156	Vice President, thank you. Good evening to all! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we, together with the other co-signatories, have again tabled the motion for a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, because we believe that the resolution that came under the government's feathers does not address the key issues and challenges that are ahead of all of us. Unfortunately, the resolution has already ended up on the working body, although the content is well prepared, because it has been helped by the creation of various environmental representatives and professions that point to the problem of changing climate in both Slovenia and the world. We have decided to re-submit the document because we want Slovenia, in society of developed democratic countries, which have already adopted similar resolutions and have targeted its policies in a way that is environmentally and naturally friendly. Finally, a similar resolution was adopted by the European Parliament, setting an example for the rest of the European Union. The current ruling right coalition recently voted and endorsed the Resolution on Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050, which, as has already been said, does not pursue objectives and does not propose solutions that address issues and problems of the climate and environmental crisis in a comprehensive manner. Environmental and climate change is happening every day, and the climate change situation is deteriorating dramatically from day to day. The question of how we are going to solve the crisis is that there is no political color, no change and no crisis that is happening to everyone and it is right to tackle the problem together. In its content, the resolution addressed the themes of a low-carbon and carbon-free economy, the opening of green jobs, the preservation of plant and animal species, the extension of the life cycle of products, the promotion of greening and afforestation and the support of local food and food chains. Unfortunately, the ruling right coalition on the committee did not support the idea that Slovenia, on the basis of the resolution we have proposed, will increase sustainable mobility in order to establish an effective public passenger transport network, as well as the idea of a significant reduction in traffic on urban and urban crossings and roads. All that the Social Democrats, together with the other signatories, have written in the proposed resolution, according to the representatives of the Right Coalition, is already recorded in Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy by 2050, but, as has already been said, this document does not address all the problems and does not solve the situations that have arisen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! The resolution on the declaration of an emergency climate and environmental situation or the resolution on the climate and environmental crisis should be adopted long ago, as the crisis is already here. What is more, recent fires in Amazonia or the fact that recently there was a good part of Europe in the fire or under water, if not serious knowledge of the approaching climate collapse, of the fact that we are living in a time of global climate and environmental crisis, as it has never been. The Paris climate agreement, whose main objective is to limit the rise in global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial time, was signed by 190 countries. The European Union and it have committed ourselves to carbon neutrality by 2050, but these will be key measures to be implemented by 2030. In Levica, we keep reminding ourselves that if we do not radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, the effects of return loops will become uncontrollable and will result in climate failure, as well as global instability, economic collapse and the migration crisis of unimaginable dimensions. We're practically out of time. Among the objectives of the resolution would be to highlight two in particular, the second with which the Republic of Slovenia, through measures in all sectors, would achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and by 2050 at the latest achieve carbon neutrality. And the fourth is that, as a country, we commit ourselves to taking action to get out of extreme climate and environmental conditions — and this is now very important — in a socially fair way, in accordance with the principles of climate justice. Of course, all the objectives of this resolution are important, including the objective of energy poverty. And we're just witnessing the irritation of energy that leads to energy poverty. At the end of the day, I would point out the following: only the adoption of such resolutions and commitments, of course, does not mean anything unless we actually start to act now. So we need to act now, we need to act now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u160	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The resolution on climate and environmental crisis declares that the Republic of Slovenia is in a state of climate and environmental crisis, which requires priority action to be taken to prevent, mitigate and adapt to climate change. The motion for a resolution follows four climate objectives: to prevent global warming over 1.5 degrees Celsius, to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors by achieving a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 relative to 1990 and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 at the latest, to prevent biodiversity reduction and to implement measures to address the climate crisis in a socially equitable manner. In New Slovenia, we do not doubt the intention of the motioners for a resolution, but we are convinced that all the conclusions, measures and recommendations resulting from the motion for a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia are addressed by two adopted documents, namely the Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050, recently adopted by the National Assembly with a large majority of Members, and the Resolution on the National Environment Programme for the period 2020-2030, adopted by the National Assembly on 5 March 2020. The Resolution on the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia adopted by 2050 is certainly following the commitments of the Paris Agreement and is prepared in accordance with the framework of Slovenia's long-term climate policy and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Management of Energy Union and Climate Action. By that resolution, Slovenia committed to climate neutrality until 2050. The resolution defines that by 2050 we will become a company that is adapted and climate-resistant, based on sustainable development and fairly distributed costs, taking into account the most vulnerable groups. The resolution is committed to implementing all government departments. By 2030, the resolution on the climate strategy summarises the National Energy and Climate Plan, which will be updated in 2030 and will also follow the European package Prepared for 55, which Slovenia also coordinates during the presidency. The Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme for the period 2020-2030 is also being implemented, under which we are also committed to achieving the objectives of sustainable development. The current Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still well aware of the potential negative impact of climate change and the negative effects on the environment and human health. That is why it devotes itself to them and treats them both at the level of the whole government and within all the competent ministries and services. A good example is the Ministry of Infrastructure, where a lot of efforts are being made to strengthen public passenger transport and upgrade railway infrastructure. The vision of the Long-term Climate Strategy is climate-neutral and climate change-resistant society based on the basis of sustainable development, which will effectively address energy and natural resources while maintaining a high level of competitiveness of the economy. The goal of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, which must pursue environmental protection and is written in capital letters in our programme, is to treat the environment, fertile land, drinking water and animal worlds with respect, and the diversity of species. Protecting the environment, the animals, the natural resources, is our common task, but it must be done first by each individual. It's our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. The text, however, is given by the Magi’s proposer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am delighted to hear how all political parties – by the way, those who do not know, there are 10 parliamentary groups in this House – swear to believe in the environmental and climate crisis. Only the devil is in action, of course. The action is to recognise this in a way that proclaims the environmental and climate crisis in the same way as the European Parliament, the Vatican and Italy. By the way, even the Secretary-General of the United Nations has repeatedly called on you to declare the environmental and climate crisis, and to maintain this situation until we reach a carbon-free society. What needs to be said immediately, and this document is very clear, of course, is not competition for the government, if we call it climate resolution by 2050. It is such a thick document with operational measures, but it has some serious shortcomings. The first flaw is, of course, that climate conditions are not taken seriously, because if you took them seriously, then most of the measures would not be there after 2040 and later. Let us say that document even softens our objectives by 2030, even though we have agreed differently at European Union level. And it will be clear to those who do not sufficiently follow the debates in this House, the government document is basically an energy plant. In the government documents made by the professional institutes, it did not nearly say that it was necessary to adopt in an improper resolution on an improper body that Slovenia decided only on the nuclear future. All the documents so far have said that we have to decide by the year, I think, 2027 between two, three or four scenarios. And a document was planted in this Parliament, which is basically an energy document, not a climate. Since the ministry led by a non-energy minister, he is the Minister of the Environment, at least as he writes in his post, he framed this national assembly, and unfortunately most Members and Members of Parliament will follow that in Slovenia only the nuclear future will be. And I'm not saying that maybe this isn't the right way, but all the time we've been saying that there will be three, four scenarios and that people at the referendum will be able to decide. And not then to say that that document is the same as the document that is shorter on the announcement of the environmental and climate crisis. Next thing. Today, it has been said several times that the panel of the world’s most competent experts has found that the situation is significantly worse than it was thought a year ago. They're really horrible. What needs to be said more loudly is that the two groups of residents will be the most affected, which is the result of a report by experts. The first group are sick people, they're older people, they're people with chronic diseases. Why? Because there's gonna be a lot more temperature shocks than there is right now. What does that mean in practice? In practice, if you look at mortality statistics in Slovenia, in Europe and elsewhere, what happens when we have temperature shocks, in those days mortality is unusually high, generally even higher than when we have a severe situation in the covida-19 epidemic. So climate change directly endangers not only health, but it endangers people's lives. And to say, we won't admit it, even though the important countries have done it and the calls made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations are, what does that really mean? Does this mean that people who are under attack are not taken seriously? Other populations are farmers and farmers. The rapid change in farming conditions, of course in practice, is a rapid adjustment, which is the task of a new agricultural policy, a new rural development programme. What is trying to keep quiet, however, is that many will simply not be able to adapt, but this is not a period until 2050, this is a period until 2030. We must acknowledge that we are in a time of environmental and climate crisis, and we must prepare appropriate programmes in advance, so that this population, on which food security depends, will continue to explain military security so that for 700 million more or less obsolete weapons, which is even defective, will be purchased. [[...]] But believe me, food safety is more important. But here, when I say - we, I don't mean this part of Parliament, and the problem is that we all know that if we go to a plenary session with a decision to declare an environmental and climate crisis, I am quite sure that we would get enough votes, I am absolutely sure. But what happens? The Committees of the National Assembly shall be composed in such a way that they do not reflect the situation in Parliament. By means of an environmental and climate resolution – which I believe in this national assembly, if voted on, even most of us cannot come through a committee which is responsible for the environment, because the structure is broken there. And let's say a coalition that actually has fewer votes than KUL plus unrelated Members has a large majority on that committee. And this unconstitutional situation blocks the announcement of the environmental and climate crisis in Slovenia. What I'm going to say is that if anyone else comes forward, I will be happy to respond — but we have no right to give up because the environmental and climate crisis is the greatest threat to the quality of life and also to the survival of people, animals and plants; we have to insist. We also need to agree in the KUL coalition with unrelated Members whether to file tomorrow or perhaps November, December, January; or to wait for Parliament to come together, which will not be embarrassed to admit that we are in a time of environmental and climate crisis. But I tell you, because we will eventually succeed, but this period that we have to invest, invest, and that the other side rejects, and this period many will not want to remember. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Get Masha Kociper ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u164	Nice hello to you all! It is true that we have a climate and environmental crisis in Slovenia, and we are, in fact, reminded of the changes we are witnessing, but not least of all the statistics of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. And if we monitor how the global temperature changes, how the shorter number of days below the ice, how the annual droughts, the annual floods, how foreign species come to us, then we know that things are happening. When we look at model research, which is designed to see what the future will be like, both are not good. No matter what we do, the limit of raising global temperatures by 1.5 degrees Celsius will be exceeded in the next ten years and there is virtually no piece in the world that will not warm. And we know that all parts of the world are warming up differently. Unfortunately, Slovenia is warming up twice as fast as the world average and twice as fast as the seas and oceans, which are also oxygenated by global warming. And due to melting ice in the Arctic, sea level rises. The Slovenian coast will be very threatened, as sea water level is expected to increase by one metre, so we are talking about average levels, if we look at the tide and tide, we can believe that this level can be more than two meters higher every day than today. And the consequences will be disastrous. What we can do today is start to adapt to these climate changes, as the effects of adaptation will be visible immediately, while the effects of reducing greenhouse gas emissions will be observed and detected only over decades. And these are the things we have to do. In Slovenia, of course, we have a number of structural challenges, we need to reduce emissions in transport, and we are very much in favour of the development of public passenger transport and all of these matters, such as the promotion between vulnerable groups of people. We want empty trains to be filled with passengers, and we have seen this in the summer and summer of last year, when trains finally became full of people, eager for the seas. Finally, there are changes in the field of energy. We need to find an agreement on how to ensure secure, safe and affordable electricity supply; and therefore we need to make these efforts, especially in the context of the green transformation of our society, so that this transition is feasible and of course fair. A third important sector is agriculture, where we also need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the field of livestock, livestock and to achieve some more environmentally friendly standards of food production and processing. The fourth important sector is also the energy efficiency sector. The whole public sector must be an example of how the company should behave, i.e. reduce unnecessary travel, travel by aircraft, support public transport, support transport and renewable energy. And these are the challenges we have to face. This resolution will help us in this sense to inform us of the problems that are already happening and cannot be withdrawn from them. Once again, this transformation, which is ahead of us, which we must do, must be socially and ecologically oriented and must address social and social and technological challenges and we must also use it for our social development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I'd just like to join my colleague where he ended up. I think that every opportunity, as we point out at different levels, here in the National Assembly at this level, is a government at its own, non-governmental organisations in its field, teachers and professors at their own, scientists at their own, in short, every moment to remind us how serious the situation with regard to the environment and climate change in Slovenia and the world is every moment is very important. That is why we are absolutely in favour of and co-signed the motion for a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, because it is precisely because of the awareness of people that it seems crucial that the broadest crowd, the whole general public be informed and aware of how important it is that at this point we do everything that is possible not to have very negative consequences. And as we see, the consequences in this area are not something that happens, as in the past over the centuries, we are now talking about major changes in the environment in a few decades or even years. And the main reason for the motion for a resolution was the call by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Guterres on the 5th anniversary of the signing of the Paris Agreement, when he called on the world leaders to declare extraordinary climate conditions in their countries until carbon neutrality is achieved. It is that, with such a call at the highest level, we declare the scope of the problem and, somehow, at least, that is the wish, we put pressure on anyone who can in any way influence the adaptation of their activities. If I spoke earlier about the need for awareness of the whole public as well as of the individual public, of course they are also very important to the public, which can influence things to change. I am not just talking about scientists, maybe about possible inventions or knowledge that could slow or solve these consequences, but I am talking about in particular that each individual, individual entrepreneur, every individual citizen, each individual director, should think about what he can do in the context of his actions to solve this problem and to reduce the speed at which climate change occurs and the warming of the atmosphere. In recent years there have been a lot of documentary shows, including various films on this issue. I have to say that every time I follow this, sometimes I follow it along with my kids, the horror is getting me where we put this planet, and how close we are, actually, to getting to the point without coming back. And as experts warn me, not politicians, experts, this point can be significantly closer than we all think together. Last time I looked at one of the documentaries again, he was talking about whether economic growth could be infinite. And of course, the conclusion of this documentary is that in an area that is limited, as our planet Earth is limited, of course, economic growth in infinity is not possible. No natural organism grows into infinity, no animal, no plant, and so on; and so economic growth cannot grow to infinity. We have brought economic growth to some point, and now we will have to seriously find other ways of quality life and existence on our planet, even if we want to ensure some normal quality of life not only to our children but also to our grandchildren and grandchildren. We absolutely support this motion for a resolution in the SAB party. We cannot believe that the government does not support such an essentially principled, non-injurious document that would only point to the seriousness of matters. And in this place, I promise that we will not deviate from taking every opportunity to talk about this and to raise awareness of the problem for all those who need to be informed and for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u168	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, who are still insisting! Anyone who is still here today at this hour, I highly appreciate him, because I understand him that he understands that we are in a time of great crisis. For a moment, I was wondering if I should read the Pope's Ambassador or his Cardinal Parolin, who is responsible for this area, which he wrote last year before the 5th anniversary of the Paris Climate Agreement. By the way, let's not forget, December 12th this year will be the sixth anniversary. But I won't, even because reading is empty chairs, at least that's how they teach me, inefficient. Nevertheless, I would like to read this to the heads who listen and perhaps think about what empty chairs on the right are not. And that's why I'm only going to say the following. The 6th anniversary of the Paris Environmental Climate Agreement will take place on 12 December this year. Again, all of us will receive similar questions as last year, the year before, and this is — Have you done your job? And Slovenia, which also presides over the Environment Council, will speak the flossules, will speak empty big words. None of those who will go to these forums will be able to admit it; nor can we admit the environmental climate crisis in our heads. And that's one big shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I note that there is no interest, so I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice evening.
