ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, and 93a, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 96th meeting. 3. 2021. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Lidija Ivanuša, Andreja Zabret from 12 p.m. to 14 p.m., Dejan Židan until 13 p.m., Robert Polnar until 14 p.m., Franc Jurša, Ferenc Horvat until 6 p.m., Samo Bevk until 14 p.m., Mihael Prevc until 14 p.m., Dušan Verbič, Jani Möderndorfer until 15 p.m., Franc Trček until 12 p.m. and Marijan Pojbič. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly was announced by Mr Željko Cigler using a remote-session application in the form of a videoconference. I invited the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simono Kustec, and other representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, it is for the defence of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of Dr. Simone Kustec. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! I will begin with your quote on the Maribor students who protested, so that they can go to school, a statement that not only became a statement of the week in one of the clocks, but also widely reflected in our society. You said: “It is for young adults, whom I certainly believe they understand” [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u3	Dr. Vatovec, I'm sorry, I'm going to interrupt. They're warning me the clock's not working. 10 minutes of interruption for technical reasons. (The sitting was suspended at 9.03 p.m. and resumed at 9.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're going to extend the break for 15 minutes. Technical service says it's gonna reset the whole system. We'll pick it up at 9:30. (The sitting was suspended at 9.14 p.m. and resumed at 9.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u5	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're still having technical problems, so we're going to be counting down an hour from here, on foot, as it's called. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u6	Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, I will begin with your quote on the Maribor students who became a statement of the week, not only in the officers, but in society. You said: “It is for young adults, whom I certainly believe they understand and also take responsibility for their actions. This is the first step into the world of adulthood." These few words, these two sentences reveal all your contempt, arrogance, anemia and alienation, which have caused the applicants to intercede. In fact, this response to the students who protested is to be careful so that they can return to school, an excellent introduction to today’s debate. Many schoolchildren, students, students and their parents, teachers, teachers, principals have been in this year, since there is a third government of Janša, constantly calling, begging, appeals to listen and reason, looking for someone to perform the role of champion of the school’s field. If there is no such interlocutor, they have not been found in the Ministry of Education or in the Ministry of Education. That is why young, young adults and adults began to protest after the longest school ever closed in Europe. To protest the opening of schools. Young people have done something incredibly brave – they have used the constitutional right to freedom of expression to demand their right to education. This did not just show courage; they did show their maturity; they did public use of the mind. So many responsibilities, Minister, you have not shown in the entire year of your term of office, the mandate you have spent on being a non-minister of education, which, last but not least, you are being read by the students themselves by the protestors from the second Maribor high school. They say you don't know the students that you didn't put yourself in their position in the epidemic, that you didn't even want to work for them, or you really wanted them to go back to school. They wrote that they were expecting dialogue and compassion, not arrogance, because they wanted to go back to school. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an obvious matter that the Minister is constantly coming down on the part of people who act directly or indirectly in the school field. These are the indications that have been made by the proponents in the interpretation. The ministry of Dr. Simone Kustec is an escape from responsibility for his department, is a quick submission to the first minister, his arrogant separation agenda, which he does not understand, does not want to understand and wants to subordinate this segment of social life. The Minister is also actively putting herself in this passive role. The secretary decided to be a non-ministrator. Young people took responsibility just as they protested. As they themselves say, they stand firm for this because they have given their opinion. They took up a position clearly and unequivocally, and this is a red thread of readings at 20 points of interpretation – that the Minister does not want to take up positions, have opinions and worry, defend, fight for his department. Such findings are the standing of its ministry and a large part of the 20 points that we proposed in the interpretation. It has, inter alia, been shown to have an unprofessional, ineffective, inconsistent and harmful policy in the area of education and education during the covida-19 epidemic, a constitutional denial of the right to education of children with special needs, a lack of respect for the epidemiological profession in the opening and closing of schools, discrimination against certain groups of children and students, those from socially disadvantaged groups, a lack of conditions for the safe and reliable implementation of school competitions, a threat to the future due to the absence of a plan to address the adverse and negative consequences of school closure. We see a harmful exclusional and underestimating attitude towards sport, non-organisation of school competitions, proposal for the abolition of the NGO funding fund, in particular the lack of dialogue with all stakeholders, unions, management associations, professional workers, students and parents. We give her inadequate support for the interests of students, students and students in setting priorities for the release of measures to prevent the enlargement of covida-19. We see the absence of systematic evaluation of distance learning, the absence of measures to prevent the social distress of young people. We are seeing the suspension of the duty to prepare an invitation to enroll in higher education and to mislead the public, to engage in the autonomy of the Pedagogical Institute, to put the interests of private educational institutions ahead of the quality of higher education, to block the employment of researchers in public research organisations and so on. Since there is not enough time in the introduction to go into detail about all this, I will focus on two key topics, damage to primary school space and damage to public higher education and research institutions. Let's start with the first one. The area of education, even primary schools, is one of the key pillars of society, which provides a whole range of development opportunities for the youngest. The school is a place of openness, equalization of social and social differences, and not least a place for growth. The closure of schools among the first in Europe and the insistence on their closure at the longest possible time in this area was a disastrous decision. A decision that was not supported by professional positions, both the government consultation group for co-vid, NIJZ and even the World Health Organisation, stressed and pointed out that schools were the ones that needed to be closed last and opened first. However, the Minister decided that she would rather follow the positions of the Prime Minister of the Government than the experts and epidemiologists, who did not listen to these professions and to these epidemiologists. This, of course, caused enormous harm to children, especially primary school children and their families. They were pushed into a situation where, even without access to information technology and the Internet, some had to face a distance lesson that did not even work as it should in the initial stages. They had to face the absence of peers, they had to face the absence of direct contact with teachers. At times, they had to do so alone at home, while their parents had to do so. Alone, without having the necessary prior knowledge and skills to use such technologies, without having all the appropriate bases to train themselves. Of course, it took a great deal of effort on the part of parents who had to go to work and then work on their children’s education and so on. No one claims that the Ministry should ignore the NEJZ, but should certainly seek and find a balance between the health aspect and the implementation of the study process. Because of this incompetence, schools were closed too quickly and too long, as the longest said. This position was advocated by virtually all the professional public, epidemiologists, teachers, trade unions, but for them and their positions the minister had neither time nor time to listen. A number of recommendations from schoolchildren following additional staff and equipment to ensure the opening of schools have been heard, and instructions have usually come in confused, just before laborers, which has added to the confusion. Even in one of the TV shows, the minister admitted that the schools had closed too quickly, but that this was because they had helped the health care industry. Remember, when schools were firmly closed, the Government decided that a number of economic activities could be opened, shopping centres could be opened in December and so on. So we got into a situation where during Christmas-new holidays, schoolchildren, students, students could meet together in crowded shopping malls, but they couldn't go to school. The consequences of this opening were then seen in January. On the other hand, the Minister also made a specific school with her passiveness in the area from which she came from, the university. The most significant example of this was, of course, the blocking of the invitation to enroll in higher education institutions. Since the President of the Government decided at some point that he did not like the invitation to tender, he blocked it and the Minister took part in it with her passivity. This was one act in this country that led to one of the most mass petitions, a petition against the destruction of public higher education and science signed by more than 14,000 people. 14,000 people who have been ignored all this time. This blocking of the call is, of course, the intention of the Government after privatisation or after the pressure on the public university, which was clear also at the infamous summit near Kranj, where Janez Janša organized representatives of public universities and confronted them with representatives of private institutions. We have also seen these elements of privatisation in PKP6, where, following the lobbying of the University of Jambrek at the Ministry of Education, there was an article that allowed accreditation for the New University to be avoided, allowing this university to have access to EUR 2 million per year of public funding for its operation, although there are no such conditions. In a public letter, the Slovenian High School Union wrote in the event of this blockage: “Maybe the time you spend silently can be used to reflect on the fact that we do not have problems in social education with over-inclusion in programmes, but with graduates who either acquire the right to decide on matters they have no competence over” and thus aim at the President of the Government, “both have competences and have no backbone”, and this is an arrow to ministers. The students showed their spine if I went back to them. Not only did teenagers demonstrate by public use of their minds that they can express their own views and make clear and well-formed demands, they have shown that such views and requirements must be expressed for one simple reason – because this expression of views is an expression of open dialogue and democracy that seeks an open, development-oriented and solidarity society. Unlike all the aspirations of this government. For this reason, I would like to remind you of the opening sentence of Kant’s writings of the answer to the question: What is enlightenment? which students, students, their parents, teachers and professors have done in the purest form. This paragraph says: “Lightening is man’s way out of underage, which is his own fault. Underageness is an inability to use your mind without guidance by someone else. The guilt for this underageness, however, is its own if the cause does not concern a lack of reason but the determination and courage to use it without foreign leadership. Sapera aude! Be courageous, use your own reason, and therefore the password of enlightenment." This quote is particularly devoted to all those involved in the school field, and in general to all in society, because the only way out of the darkness in which we are being pushed by the government of Janez Janša is to use reason. And I'm putting you, Madam Secretary, on my mind for the next 16 hours. During this time, consider when you will consider this quotation. When will you consider the need to use reason freely from someone else’s leadership, to have determination and courage, and to use your own understanding in order to apply a principle that you may have even advocated a year ago? During this time, consider when you will take responsibility for your actions, when you will take responsibility in a similar way as did the students in Maribor, when you will take the first step into the world of adulthood. On the point to which you are driven, your exit from underage can only be a derogation. It will be substantially too late, but it may be possible to see it as a small, first step toward using reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the interpretation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Koprivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Greetings to the Prime Minister, who is not among us. He probably doesn't have time, tweets, maybe insults some European statesman, maybe some journalist, and doesn't have time for a meeting. I would also like to welcome the ministers, who are also for no reason whatsoever between us. Those irrevocably withdrawn, those who are not allowed to speak in public, those against whom police investigations are being conducted among you, those who are wriggling with your shoulders when you do not overcome the courage to resist the dictatorial aspirations of the Prime Minister. And of course, greetings also to all those who simply enjoy the dismantling of democracy and the Republic and simply enjoy yourselves by humiliating the Constitution, although you have sworn otherwise, unfortunately agree. I have a special greeting to give today, unfortunately, to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Ministers, at the time of the Ministry of which we first experienced the fact that the authorities of a democratic and free state, after the Constitution of the Republic, are persecuting students and students because they dared to publicly express their demand to return to the school bench. This is how I especially welcome the Minister of Science, at which time they had to close their doors to universities and student homes, when the government allowed gaming salons and casinos to continue their work peacefully. With a truly unusual feeling, I welcome the Minister responsible for sport, who has never cheated on the cards with the success of Slovenian athletes and, of course, took a lot of pictures with them at the events, but at the same time she did not care about the catastrophic deterioration of the mobility of children and youth, and for months the permanent disruption of the work of professional athletes and athletes, and in all anti-korona packages, she did not know or wanted to jump to the aid of sports workers and workers, as opposed to helping priests. If I think about it, I'm actually referring my regards to a minister who didn't really do her job. It still excuses its incompetence, failure and complete submission to the President's dictatorship today with the outbreak of the new covid-19 virus, although many countries in Europe have proved and demonstrated that despite the virus's ability to ensure the smooth progress of the educational process, as well as the continuation of work in science, sport and in all areas where Slovenia has returned to the point where children, youth, sport and science were caused, I fear, very difficult to repair due to the humility and misdemeanour of Simone Kustec. So, dear Simona Kustec, good day and welcome! Welcome to facing the reality that you've been willing or unwilling to help create. Very well welcomed at the meeting with everything that is right because of you or also because of you, or also because of you in Slovenia today, and it must end immediately, best with your recognition that you have simply not been part of the task and role. And that's why it would be right for you to take responsibility. As you told the students that they must pay the penalty for protesting to open schools, it would be appropriate for you to take on your part after one year of non-action in this government for everything you have done, and especially for everything you have not done. Most effective with your resignation. Like many times in the last year, my invitation today was to do what is logical and right, just rhetorical in nature. After all that you have done to the detriment of citizens and citizens, and after all that you have not done to make people better in Slovenia in these difficult times, we regret that we are not directing any more expectations towards you. We therefore place our hopes in the rationality and sobriety of the decisions of Members and Members. The elected representatives and representatives of the people should know and understand that we cannot go any further and the time has come to resolve Simono Kustec from the post of Minister for Areas she has neglected or has never actually managed at all. We have therefore submitted an interpretation against Simono Kustec, Members and Members of the democratic opposition, firstly because of unacceptable violation of the principle that even in times of crisis, schools close last and open first. Of course, in the opposition we understand that the year of facing the pandemic of the new coronavirus was an extremely difficult and completely unusual year, but, honourable Members and Members, remember that in the school year 1943/1944, more than 430 partisan schools operated in the midst of the largest occupation of Slovenian territory, where more than 745 teachers and teachers cared for pupils and students in the middle of World War II. The offensives to freed territories, persecutions, deportations and shootings of hostages despite true patriots made sure that, whenever and wherever possible, the schools were open to children. Today, when we have freedom, our country, today, when there is no need for illegal classrooms, today, Madam Minister, we must talk about the longest period without functioning schools. And yes, once again, we must speak out loud: we must also talk about whether students and students have received payment orders and subpoenas because they have demanded that they be allowed to return to school. I repeat. Students and students received payment orders because they demanded that they be allowed to return to school, respected minister. This is the greatest disgrace in the history of independent Slovenia. So during your ministry, you made it possible to persecute students and students because they demanded schools. On the other hand, with the law of the CAP, you have enabled your Prime Minister's political companion to extend accreditation to their private universities, for which there was no professional justification. This request has now been retained by the Constitutional Court. I have also made a request for an assessment of this to the Commission to prevent corruption. We're still waiting for an answer. In your opinion, however, the police approach to punishment is a particularly appropriate way of moving to adulthood. However, dear Minister, was it not appropriate to move to adulthood to accept responsibility and civic activism even when those same students invited you to meet with them? And what have you done, Your Honor? You didn't even want to see your students before the protest. It would be good if we could talk to them about the solutions they've created. It would be good to listen to them and help them, or at least to accept their help, when you did not know more than clearly and were able to come up with a solution. Why didn't you want to accept their proposals? Where were the adults, the responsibility, the understanding of the situation, and the respect for social relations? Where were you then, Your Honourable Minister? Tell us today whether you refused the dialogue because you did not care or because you were ordered to do so by authoritarian Prime Minister Janez Janša. What you're doing is far from human rights, away from inclusion. Didn't you guys do the right thing with this area as a researcher? Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister, who should be the first voice of support for children, youth, teaching, athletes and athletes, did not carry out this part of her mandate for a single day. Simona Kustec, who should be the first and last advocate of education, education, science, sports before non-professional policy interventions, before harmful influences and measures, before public profanity and neglect, unfortunately, the entire duration of one term was gone and the sneering executive of the government's policy. She was the bearer and bearer of the bad, usually unconstitutional and professionally uncoordinated decisions and news. Madam Minister, you said earlier at the press conference that you are aware that the citizens are angry with you. You also said you were angry with yourself. What the whole country thought of you and your work, however, was very well written by your colleagues, former colleagues at the FDV, who certainly know you personally and professionally well. They wrote, quote: “The question of already coordinated decisions between your ministry and higher education institutions proves not only the absence of your authority over your own field, but also the loss of ethical integrity, because you do not respect and advocate for your own commitments, but you narrow the ministerial function to the casual role of the observer.” End of quote. That's why it's true. Don't be wrong. We are very angry at you and deeply disappointed at you, including the proponents of this interpretation. Therefore, Madam Minister, we suggest that you relieve yourself of anger and disappointment over yourself and in your own well-being and well-educated youth, their parents, grandparents and in the best interests of the entire system of education and education, science and sport before you consider this interpretation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport's reply to the interpretation was received on 25 February 2021. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec, to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Could I have another PowerPoint, please, activate? Exactly one year ago today, nearly half a million students and just over 100,000 employees closed their doors to thousands of kindergartens, primary, secondary, and university schools. There was work at the research institutes, and 3,000 sports facilities were closed throughout the country. The educational institutions have remained open and for some exceptions to student homes. Reason: Infectious disease epidemic covid-19 of the world's dimensions. Here [[shows the object]] You can also see where we are today. One year ago, I was like many of you, convinced that everything was stopping for a certain time, that we would put up with it, wait a little bit, and it would all go back to the usual tracks. To do everything to get back to normal is a guide that follows me to this day, knowing that this standard will certainly be different. Most likely, we were all convinced that by means of measures of complete stoppage we would win. We weren't lonely. Almost the whole world did the same. The whole world only knew that it was a virus that spreads invisiblely and almost at light speeds, that could have a fatal impact on health, on the life of the infected, and that no one in the world had a cure for it. The only thing that was possible and responsible in the given situation was a reasonable and natural response: stopping public life and finding new ways in which life in such uncertain, scared times can run as safely and calmly as possible, including in kindergartens, schools, colleges, sports. In the Slovenian school space, this meant finding a way to transfer the educational process from the school premises to the premises at home. The most vital part of the company remained, but he did not stay at home. In the early days of this dramatic spring period, which paralysed us with shock, power, fear, almost 30% of all Slovenian schools allowed their pupils to continue their daily schooling obligations from home. These teachers, under executive direction in their collectives, immediately contacted their students at night, gave them instructions for work, set up remote video-teaching systems and continued with the planned work of the school year, thereby giving a signal to the entire school space, the whole society, the professions and us political decision makers that we need to go further in order to respond, find alternative ways to respond to the situation – because we need to respond because we need to know because we need to. After two weeks, this was understood by more than 90% of the total school space. With professional assistance, cooperation, understanding that we must all help each other in these difficult times, encourage and, above all, enable children to keep their daily rhythms around learning, we succeeded – for the first time between March and May 2020, we succeed the second time between November and January 2021, and we also succeed today, after the first year of the epidemic, when all the schoolchildren are back in school and when it shows that we will be able to try and do everything we can to get back to school soon. The fact is that the virus was also particularly marked by kindergarten and school space. To date, according to the NIJZ, we have already seen 20.5% of the employees in kindergartens, 8% in primary schools and 6% in secondary schools, or in other words 145 thousand of the employees mentioned, some less than 11,000 positive cases are active today in the last week, some over 5,000. Some more than 193,000 infections have been identified among schoolchildren, 85% of them over 19 years of age and 2% among children between 6 and 18 years of age. Today we record just under 10,000 active infections of children in education, of which only in the last week with a marked trend of growth in children between the ages of 5 and 14 and of those in special needs. We can't close our eyes! Most of the time, the situation for those involved in our space of education and education at the borders of human physical, especially emotional and psychological possibilities is described. But we bite further because we know that this is the only right answer because we see light at the end of the tunnel, which soon after the new year proved to be by reducing the number of infections due to our protective behavior, due to the possibility of rapid testing, in the current period due to the first vaccinations of employees in education and education. And, everywhere, in all the different types of responses mentioned above, the area of education and education together with health, social security and the civil protection system and critical infrastructure was the first to respond to the situation and was recognized as centrally important. The same is true for the response and attitude of the majority of science and sport, spaces and people who, at the time described, have achieved global, resilient results and successes, have successfully reported new projects, organised competitions at the highest international levels of crowns despite. For all this I would like to say again in this place an endless, indescribable thanks to all, from educators, teachers, professors, scientists, athletes to their leadership. You are the winners of this unwinning time. You are our example and proof that we can make it, that we will eventually succeed and that we are all in the same boat. And for this reason, I would like to remind ourselves that we are not alone, that the whole world responds to similar responses and trials according to its best capabilities. On the projection I'm telling you, I'm just confirming once again that we're not the worst if that's what you're worried about. What is a fact is that we were the worst in schools, not in schools, but in terms of the infections that we had in this country and we didn't know how to control them because we didn't start to control them in time. This was still strong before 13 March 2020. You know, this debate today is not and must not be a debate on work in the field of education and education, science and sport on the contribution of this field to a successful and decisive response to the initially unknown and still uncontrollable virus. The virus has its own natural laws, not its political colors. This debate today will be mostly political. In it, you'll first tell yourself what you think about me, about my way of doing things. We've heard some dramatic statements and assessments. Throughout today's debate, with the work of Members and with the help of facts, the figures will talk about what we have been able to do together in this first year, including through dedicated relations, understanding, work at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in cooperation with colleagues from other departments of the Government, with the NIJZ, through cooperation in the adoption of laws with you, honourable Members and Members, state councils and councils, mayors and mayors, with various groups of interested professional public, with the Education Institute, with the CPI, with the RIC, with the two national senior boards, with professional councils, with representatives of executive associations, parents, students, students, research organisations, with the Rector's Conference, with sports organisations. Yes, we have all cooperated and cooperated and will continue to cooperate. And thank you all, because together with the staff in education and education, researchers, athletes, their leadership you understand because you are helping because with your knowledge and work you are enriching the many achievements we have achieved in this first year of my ministry. We know what we're doing, we know why we're doing this, and we know who we're doing it for. The fact is that we did this first year of our mandate after two tracks, after covid track and after the usual track. The facts of covid achievements are that the past has been successfully completed, a new school year has been started, a graduation has been carried out, enrolments in primary, secondary and higher education programmes are already under preparation for this year's graduation. In the context of eight packages of so-called anti-Korona legislation, €76 million of measures were supported to support the implementation of the educational process, including the purchase of ICT equipment, for uninterrupted work protections, salary compensations, income outages, for the exemption of payment for kindergartens. Educational institutions have received 110 districts, guidelines and recommendations for the implementation of the educational process, verification and evaluation and completion of the school year. In the summer we prepared a manual with possible learning models during the coronation period, in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute of Education and with NIJZ, they were implemented until the education of teachers for distance education. We have adapted education to children with special needs, invited schools to prepare adapted learning materials for them, individualize them and adapt them to the child's deficit. Together with municipalities and schools, we have provided free distribution of hot meals to students from socially disadvantaged groups. To those who needed this due to co-existence, we have allowed the extension of student status, young researcher status, programme research work. For one year we have extended the validity of the category of athletes and procedures for obtaining and maintaining the right to a scholarship. We paid the students twice for 150 euros in aid. We have taken care of mass testing together with the Ministry of Health for safe return to school. Right now, employees in education and education are being given the most vulnerable groups a priority. Facts are also achievements related to the ongoing necovid work of the director. In one year, we completed a completely new law on the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and educational and educational disorders, as well as a new law on kindergartens that provides free protection for other and further children. Both of you in the National Assembly confirmed with a high majority. After more than a decade in cooperation with Sviz, we have harmonised the amendments and updates to the rules on the advancement of employees and the rules for obtaining the title of professional workers in the adapted programme for pre-school children and in the specific programme of education and education for children and young people with special needs in social institutions. We've set up the necessary jobs for computers. In 2020, there was a full increase in wage classes for professional workers in the field of education, education and science. We have introduced a free short-term preschool education programme for all children who are not yet included in primary school one year before meeting the conditions for entry into primary school. After decades, we have sought stable systemic support for adult education funding. Right now, after 10 years, a large call for co-financing of municipal investments for kindergartens and primary schools and for sport infrastructure totalling €60 million is under way. In the preparation of the budgets for 2021 and 2022, we have obtained historical maximum financial support for the work of the department in all areas. We have already provided an additional €87.5 million in the 2020 rebalancing and an additional 200 million in 2021 and 2022. Since the summer of last year, Germany and Portugal have been actively involved in co-chairing the European Union in the field of education, science and sport. But about all of this and many other achievements more and more during the debate. When I look back today, I see that some decisions, some ways, efforts made could be made differently. But believe me, at a given point, the difficult situation, the pressures of time, the expectations, often the desire to overcome the entire virus with a miracle stick, the days when there was literally no time to eat or eat a daily meal, we did not know and could not do otherwise. That all our solutions were optimum at a given time, always those that, due to the circumstances, followed first the right to protect human health, then in these circumstances the most optimal forms of continuous learning and finally through cooperation and mutual understanding also trust. Personally, I see this last part as one where we continue, especially at a time when the co-vid situation from the point of view of controlling the virus as a disease will calm down, the most work we have, and the cities will also have exams. I will set up two expert recovery advisory groups for myself to assess and further decide on the measures to be taken this month. One for effects in the field of education and education, the other for the field of sport. Already, the profession is also preparing a series of research studies of projects that we supported or directly called on the Ministry and will provide answers on how to go further, where problems need to be rectified, where we have learned the good for the future. As a society, however, we will have to make every effort to stand by, encourage ourselves, help each other, understand each other and look together for the spaces of our differences under the same sun. The accusations, the insults, the shames, the profanity, the lies and the manipulations, the conspiracy theories don't help. They're disruptive, irresponsible for the fragile time we live. For a time when we must survive and with the wisdom of new knowledge of what is good, what a fellow experience offers, go on, each of us as an individual, but all together as a society of solidarity, which with responsibility and honesty stands by the side in good and bad. I know that today's long debate will show both the faces of what has just been said. I know this is part of an ancient game of thrones called politics. I know they're going to go around the field and we're going to go around the field of emotions and misunderstandings, a spectacle that's going to get people's passions and unrest even more hot. Most of all, I know that I do not care that it is not fair to leave the stain on the most vital part of our society, which, with effort, example, dedication and everything it knows and overcomes, teaches to help our children to make childhood and youth as usual, and especially with knowledge increasingly richer. You're the reason I'm here. You're the reason I'm doing all this. That's my first and last lead at work. I have a clear conscience, I can look anyone in the eye and, with facts that can be verified at any time, prove that the intention of today's eloquents has no basis and that I reject it at all its points. I'll be your lightning rod today. An arrowhead that wants to defend all those who are in the house of education, education, science and sport. An arrowhead I adopted a year ago when I joined the ministerial team. I know there will also be fires that are not intended solely for me and my team, but it is called the political normality of our space today, I'm sorry. And at the end of the first year of the epidemic, in which we keep trying to find just about the optimal way back to normal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. The position will be presented by the victory of the noble Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! The secretary's got a resort in total dispersion. She's fixed something, and she's gonna have to fix a lot of things. I will not go to the debate about the students who went on the road, nor will I go to the debate about the closure, opening of schools or the learning process. But I'm gonna start in kindergarten, which is the first thing I have to do. In kindergartens, why do teachers, given that we are in the European Union, needing smart children, not allow different songs to spin in foreign languages to reach children in the ear with foreign languages? When we talk about writing, no one teaches children to hold the pen as normal, but they teach them to come like that. [[shows with gesture]] , with fist, it's so-called monkey writing. This is how we distract these children from a medical study. No surgeon will be able to do his job if he doesn't hold the scalpel the right way, and that's a mistake. Then beauty – beauty in schools is gone. Recently, foreign experts have found that education is seriously lacking if it is not taught beauty, and they return. Here, Minister, there will be a lot more to be done. If we move on. In general, the permissive education introduced by Mr. Gaber on Mr. Drnovska's command has brought – where? In the divisiveness of our system, in some strange relationship that everyone has to be the same, everyone is just as smart, and because some are not as smart as others, then we come up with some strange solution that all knowledge needs to be put on the lowest common denominator, which means that it is necessary to adapt to those who are the most stupid in the class, not to raise those who are the smartest. And what happens after your children graduate from school? As soon as they try to escape abroad, where they can appreciate those who are better, and give them the opportunity to prosper and develop. In the field of education, for example, there has been a full evaluation of certain curricula. Especially in the field of science. In fact, with the introduction of a nine-year-old, elementary school has moved away from knowledge and science. Instead of being supported and reduced, already reduced biology has been composed at the sixth and seventh grades in question by an instant object called natural science. Science is everything – it's biology, it's physics, it's chemistry, it's practically mathematics and so on. And let's say no one cares that biology, which is one of the foundations and postulates of human residence, will return to the curriculum. As a result of this shift in knowledge, however, there is an increase in non-scientific approaches that penetrate these areas of knowledge and are increasingly exposed in society during this crisis, the Coronavirus epidemic. For example, in opposition to government measures against the spread of coronavirus, then the rejection of vaccinations, then the harmful possession of offers of various stone-old diets and witches and the like. All of this is replaced by some kind of LGBT agenda. In fact, it is a matter of abandoning the scientific base of the public school system and entering public school, spreading a variety of private, such as quasi-eurology, which spread quasi-explanations about the impact of movement on learning and similar nonsense. In fact, it's just about marketing school furniture. This chair isn't good because you can't learn from it. That chair that I'm doing is the best, and so on. We've fallen so deep, and that's bad. You can't allow this, Madam Secretary. There's going to be a lot of different cuts here, and it's going to take a lot of repairs to make things better. At schools, let’s say even a variety of offers and explanations of various horoscopes. We've fallen so deeply that it's now being offered at schools. These groups are prevented from systematically working and solving the problems that should be addressed in support of the functioning of the public school system. I am, of course, also included in the various educational regulations, which I think are over 2,000, but I am probably modest in this number, which sets everything possible except for allowing children to have as much education as possible and to have as much knowledge as possible to collect it. It comes to the fact that teachers no longer have integrity, the principal has no authority, because they can always touch the parents of a school student with lawyers, and I don't know who else, because the child has received a warning – I don't know if they're giving a reproof – and then it's a tie. Of course, these parents immediately call various inspectors and inspectors, who usually do not have an hour of participation in the learning process, but ex cathedra in mind, they seem to interpret the rules in their own way, but in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, they are deliberately designed in this direction to prevent Slovenian children from getting out of the average. We Slovenians have a smart and diligent young man who some want to crush and destroy, so we are obliged to ensure all the possibilities of true education. Here, Madam Minister, you're going to have to do a lot of things to fix these things. If we look at it in general. Homereading. When reading domestically, Slovenian classics are not read, some strange winnings are read, usually with the tendency of LGBT, who have nothing to do in our learning process. No one reads Fortress, Bevka, Jurčič, Jančar, and finally Partljič if we take it. All these writers are our letters, they're writing about our people, about our problems, and they're at the level of our mental sense, not something, I don't know what. For example, music does not teach Slovenian folk songs. Today, when they graduate from high school, students, I don't know if they know one, maybe two Slovenian folk songs. And yet the Slovenian national opus is so rich that it is taken into account by all world encyclopedias, except of course Slovenians. If we move forward, we will also stay here in the Slovenian language. Slovenian language is Krotoviči and the biggest successful destroyer of Slovenian language is the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Where there is a bunch of political gentlemen and a lady who are trying to destroy the Slovenian language, to make it a exclamation point, to sweep out from the Slovenian language everything that is Slovenian, and to replace, if possible, with some on the one hand, from foreign sources, usually from English taken, spoken terms, and, on the other hand, somehow by Vuk Karadzic, simplifying Slovenian to that extent in order to lose his integrity. After all, Toporišič has already started by deleting double what is a crime for the Slovenian language, and yet we have some at the SAZU that do not speak at the Faculty of Philosophy, who would like to make some of their books, which do not have tail or head, but especially harm the Slovenian word and the Slovenian nation. As far as history is concerned, there is a lot to be done. Slovenian history is only taught in Slovenia at the fasting of the arrival of our ancestors in the sixth, seventh, eighth century of our number. Nowhere else in the smart countries and in the professional circles accept this thesis, which was first created at the German history school, which it took under its Belgrade history school and which was always worshiped by Slovenian adelatus, who had to worship the government, the authorities, in order to receive various privileges, various ratings, after all, including Miklosic, who was also one of the strong destroyers of the Slovenian language with their softeners and softeners of various words. Then I must instead, as we used to say, Kran' now say Kranj. This is not in the Slovenian soundtrack. I also need to look at the textbooks here. In Slovenia we have a whole bunch of textbooks. The textbooks are not ordered on the basis of a regulation, some framework building, but on the basis of who knows where, which teacher knows this publisher, someone else, and, of course, then the textbooks on the left, on the right, as some screw-up-downs say. I think that this is one of the serious shortcomings of the Slovenian learning system, which needs to be rectified. Even these various work volumes that are self-inflicted. The purpose of themselves, no one uses them, does not fulfill them, but, of course, it is imperative to buy them. Let's say 30 euros times 10 grand applies to whoever printed that working amount, which is a nice piece of money in his pocket. And, of course, every year it's necessary to have a slightly different relationship. And, of course, the money is repeating itself. Who's paying? Our people. People who are already squandering not only in learning matters that are squandering everywhere, but in learning matters at all, because for one child in primary school it is necessary to put at least €120 aside each year, about not to talk about a high school where this number is much larger. As far as the permissive education introduced by Gaber is concerned. We need to know what we're doing with all these LGBT agendas. For example, at the final event at Dravlje Primary School there were 20. 6. 2019 Extinguishing rainbow flags. Why is that? Why the Blue Flag School? Will we be able to demand that the flags of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia hang there next time or what? What are the rainbow flags doing in elementary school? Or drawing different pictures on this subject, LGBT? It is the intentional violence of children in the reception of the LGBT community in public school. I've already said that Gaber started this after Drnovska's command, and this continues more and more. But I think [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u13	Dear colleague Jelinčič, we're in the middle of an interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u14	However, I do not think that children should be contaminated with the ideological burdens of their teachers. It's forbidden. This is forbidden all over the world except in various permissive, so-called advanced countries, which go to hell! Thank God. I think there's one more thing that needs to be fixed. What is required and is already being taught in Slovenian schools in Albanian. Please, where are we? Are we a country, as stated in the Slovenian Constitution, which is based on a fundamental constitutional charter, or are we some former ex-Yugoslav ex-exposition that allows the creation of a fourth Albanian state, besides Albania, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, and now Slovenia? And a number of teachers are subject to this and demand — even in Shentjury, it was said in kindergarten that if teachers or educators fail to understand what their children or parents want to say to them, let them use the phone or computer to Google what they want to say. Shame, shame on the whole country. And here's the minister's job to get things right. I haven't said everything. There's got to be a lot more to say, explain, demand. Minister, you have a lot of work to do before the end of your term, and know that the Slovenian National Party will support you, but don't count on us to be quiet. Don't count on us not to ask you questions, sometimes very difficult questions, which will be difficult to answer. I know that within the Ministry you will have many problems, that you will have many people and employees who will deliberately tease you, who will not allow you to carry out the Slovenian curriculum, but will require no foreign, perverted one. We're not going to agree to this, so we're going to warn you. It is important to know that Slovenia will preside over the European Union and that we must also say what we think about these deviant requirements of the European Union. After all, it will now be the 200th anniversary of the Congress of the Holy Alliance in Ljubljana. At that time, Ljubljana was at the world summit itself, and now that we are presiding, we will again. So once again, we won't support the interpolation. At the same time, I take advantage of this moment to congratulate the government on the first year of successful work, which I am sure will last until the next elections, and at the next elections, we will have to clean up the mess that remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because I hear a cough in this room, I will not name anyone, I would ask you to be so responsible – I understand if someone has to cough, but the one who coughs regularly and is so responsible and in this regard prevents the possible spread of any infections in this room. Mojca Škrinjar, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, then Aljaž Kovačič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Interpellation investors, Social Democrats, Left, List of Marjana Šarca, Alenka Bratušek, read by Dr Simoni Kustec inadvertently, ineffective and harmful policy in the field of education and education during the covida-19 epidemic, with the longest closure of schools and kindergartens in Europe and the constitutional inadmissibility of education of children with special needs and their discrimination, lack of dialogue. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Minister held a dialogue with all stakeholders, with the medical and pedagogical profession, representative associations of directors, parents, students and students, and communicated with the public, coordinated with other ministers in the Government, and as a synthesis of all events organized instructions and guidelines for the work of kindergartens, schools, colleges with special care for vulnerable groups, long-term sick and disabled, children with special needs, Roma and students in deprived areas. From the official Unesco website, which records the closure of educational institutions around the world by day, structure and purpose during the covida-19 epidemic, and the comparison of data from government officials of European countries, it is clear that the claim of the longest closure of schools in Slovenia does not hold. The course was conducted according to the school calendar, with the exception of the extension of autumn holidays, with the help of digitisation, while kindergartens and schools supported by the Slovenian Institute of Education in a professionally up-to-date manner also cooperated consistently with parents. For students and students, counselling services for kindergartens and schools were also available to all parents, especially for children with special needs. The situation in January was the same. Schools closed in the second wave of the epidemic in Slovenia on 19 October 2020, at first not entirely, only partially, since primary schoolchildren remained in school from the first to fifth grades. After the week of closure in October, it followed a week of holidays according to the school calendar, then an extraordinary week of holidays and three weeks of distance learning in November and not full four weeks of teaching in December, which ended with regular Christmas-new holidays. In January 2021, after the holidays, he was taking 10 weeks of distance learning, not 12th, as we read in general terms and as this error is repeated in the application for the interpretation of those parties. By comparison, Slovenia in the circle of Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Austria, Greece, which had similarly long closed schools and distance learning. Many Central European countries had a week after the new year the so-called third Christmas, the holiday of the holy three kings, and had a holiday. These include Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, Lithuania and Serbia, where they celebrate a week after the new year after the Orthodox calendar. Austria issued a mandatory instruction on 5 January that a distance education is to be continued after the holidays, which is certain until 14 January, and very likely by 24 January. Germany has announced that it is maintaining the instructions issued in November 2020, in which it requires schools to be open, but students and students must wear masks and, in case of a large number of infections, education in alternating or hybrid forms of learning is provided. If a student is ill in Germany, the entire department is immediately quarantined, and so are their parents, and the students can return only when the test confirms that they are healthy. On 5 January 2021, the Chancellor announced the closure of schools until 31 January, after the Federal Minister of Education had expressed reasonable doubts that normal schooling would be safe. Italy, however, announced the selective return of children to schools from 11 to 31 January, according to the province and the level of education. We now know that schools in these countries have been closed for the most part throughout February. Slovenia and Austria have not opted for a model of open hybrid schools of partial student presence in most of this time. It should be pointed out that the teaching in which some departments are present at school and others are trained at a distance, because they are quarantined, represents an organisationally demanding project for the school, in particular for teaching teachers, who are required to move from a classic classroom to a computer and videoconference mode at a moment. This action is not just a technical matter, but videoconferencing communication with students and students is also didactically different from classical communication. The rapid flexibility in various ways is excellent, but it is also exhausting, especially in the longer term. It also depends on the links, internal and spatial organisation of the school and the skills and motivation of teachers. It is therefore a demanding project based on the competence of teachers, the technical conditions of the school environment, and in particular the competence and ambition of managers. Certainly, however, decisions on how to continue learning under the conditions of the epidemic and which model is more successful are not limited to schooling, as many factors are involved. It is necessary to assess on the basis of the principle of ensuring the highest level of health protection for all citizens and in this regard also the evaluation of hospital capacity data, which, for example, are significantly higher in Germany than in Slovenia. A comparison of data on the number of hospital beds in Germany and Slovenia in 2018 shows that Germany had 800 hospital beds per 100,000 inhabitants, Austria 727, Slovenia 443. The number of doctors per thousand inhabitants in Germany is 4.2 in Austria 5.1, and Slovenia has 3 doctors per thousand inhabitants. Germany has 12.9 nurses per thousand inhabitants and Slovenia 9.7, Austria has 6.8. This makes Germany more likely to control disease than Slovenia. Despite a large number of doctors and consequently easier management of the health crisis, Austria also decided to close schools in a similar way as Slovenia. Clearly, distance learning cannot replace human contact. Interactions are, but different, which is a big challenge for both the creative teacher and the curious student. The competent ministry has provided huge funds and equipment for distance learning, and the truth is that there are still places in Slovenia where the signal does not reach, areas that are less developed, which, however, can also be an incentive for us to arrange this as soon as possible. However, this is not the burden of the school minister, although she is probably not sleeping well because of this, but it is the responsibility of the entire government, which has to provide strategically and comprehensively for balanced regional development. At a time when Telekom was a state-owned company to such an extent that it had a full impact, it would be necessary to require that its profits be directed towards the construction of an infrastructure that would ensure the coverage of any settlement by signal, so that people could have equal opportunities. Undoubtedly, this will now happen, in a way that is appropriate for the development of the market, and in the meantime some children need to communicate with their teachers on the phone, while teachers are returning repairs to them and instructions by classical mail. At a time when Slovenia sailed out of recession, this was 2015, it would be an opportunity for students and students to be able to borrow notebooks instead of textbooks. Unfortunately, no government has been able to do so so far, and the current government has done so in the quickest way – by providing schools with the funds and equipment they then lend to the students. So the distance learning is running, it's running, and the school is different from the school, which is also the fact that it's so much more obvious, because parents can now live up to different ways of learning. The truth is that schools differ according to the quality of the teacher’s work in distance teaching, as parents do. This is not to be attributed to the poor computer literacy of teachers. On the contrary, everyone quickly learned what they did not yet know. These are pedagogical and didactic approaches, about teacher engagement, the quality of interpretation, the number of tasks they give and correct, about what they tell their students, what directions they give, how they check whether they understand and know what to do, so what competences they have acquired. The fact that schools are different is due to a variety of quality directors. The choice of these is still self-regulatory, unionist. If this is too much to bear in mind and if we are slowly approaching this situation, it will be necessary to change the appointment of the principals, thereby losing the main unionist to his army, which is the major part of the school council that appoints the principal. There is nothing wrong with teachers, and it is entirely human for some to choose a weaker principal because they expect more peace. This is not always good when it comes to the complexity of the profession. The situation calls for a change that the union will probably find difficult to accept. This is one reason to oppose distance learning, taking into account measures, wearing a mask. Unfortunately, there are teachers who are smothered so that they won't be tested. If we read the instructions of the German adverts, we can see that testing is commanded as well as wearing a mask in school. That's why the Germans could have had longer-open schools, and we couldn't. These are precisely the parties who are now interpolating, calling for a school without masks. Even here we saw anger and anger, “what we would wear masks”. And then we wonder why the epidemic lasts and why the schools are longer closed. Due to the countless risk factors that may occur in a family with which the child currently spends more time than at school when he is absent at least six hours a day, it is justified to care for children who are very exposed to bad influences. If the problem is falling under normal conditions, it's going to get rich now. But distance school does not just include teaching. The school also consists of the classroom and the services of the school advisory service. A child in distress can call a classmate or a school counselor who is a psychologist, a social worker, or a teacher who is certainly qualified to help a student, a student in distress, and a family. Their job is to help a student. The ratio between the number of professional staff in school and the number of pupils in Slovenia, for example, is 10 children per teacher, in Germany 15, the average for OECD countries is 15 and the average for EU countries 13 children per teacher, so they did not need to be further employed, such as in Ireland. The positive ratio is also at higher levels of education and the primary school is ahead. Despite the excellent spatial conditions and good education of teachers and the excellent relationship between the number of pupils and teachers and other professional workers, the school cannot take over the resolution of family problems. The social work centre must take care of this, and the school must inform it if it detects problems it cannot and is not competent to solve. To turn all kinds, the causes of the mental problems suffered by children, their absence from school and distance learning are unprofessional and malicious. The school can in itself represent a source of problems for children when schools are open. School-related risk factors include poor attitudes towards school, suffering, rejection by peers, school failure, problems at school, says the NIJ publication. As guardians of good mental health, NIJS lists family connections, good communication between family members, supportive, caring parents, family harmony, high levels of family responsibility, stable family standards and morality, and economic security. However, in order not to ascribe bad feelings to students and students only at a time of distance learning, the data collected in the international Pisa knowledge research should be applicable to all countries where the measurement takes place. Measurement of the well-being of 15-year-old students or students of the target population in the PISA 2018 study is particularly important as students at this age are in a crucial phase of physical and emotional development. According to the OECD countries, about two out of three students reported that they were satisfied with their lives. This percentage decreased by five percentage points between 2015 and 2018. Approximately 6% of the students reported feeling sad at all times. Almost every educational system has expressed a greater fear of failure than boys, even when reading has greatly surpassed boys. Nearly a quarter of the students reported violence at least a few times a month. This is an average picture for all countries in which an international survey of Pisa knowledge has been carried out. So emotional problems are not a product of the school at a distance, but they are a constant that needs to be addressed in schools. So distance learning requires that you be alone or with the help of parents, if he is very small, organizes work, listens at a certain time to perform a teacher on the screen, communicates with him, fulfills the tasks he gives him. So exactly as if he was in school, only instead of sitting at the school bench at his home desk and listening to and listening through the screen, he communicates with him by using videoconference rules instead of advertising in the classroom, raising his hand. Send her products to the teacher by email and receive pictures of her corrected products and teacher’s comments again electronically or by email or in an online classroom. Students and students as well as teachers have developed such skills brilliantly. Not just knowledge, but competence, the ability to adapt to situations, the ability to survive in different situations are significantly more valuable than a third of school material which could not be processed due to new circumstances. It is even more interesting and useful to learn to force students and students to become more independent. But perhaps the true and original idea of Bologna reform will awaken, which has turned many of us into more hours for higher education professors. Independence, sovereignty, competence, efficiency, adaptability. But maybe the classic union mind doesn't like it. So distance learning brings new things, which are problems and opportunities at the same time. Problems will have to be compensated in one way or another, and opportunities are worth taking advantage of. It is not easy for anyone, but it would be much easier for everyone to stick to the measures, to support them publicly and thus to enable as soon as possible a way out of the crisis and a normal life richer for knowledge and capabilities. And if I quote from the OECD source mentioned earlier, Pisa: “While students from wealthy families often find themselves on the road to success in life, students from disadvantaged families generally have only one opportunity in life, and these are excellent teachers and good schools. If this boat is delayed, further education will strengthen and do not ease the initial differences in learning outcomes." I think our school secretary is very well aware of that. There is no evidence of a lack of respect for the epidemiological profession in the opening, closing and transfer of responsibility to individual schools, administrators and parents. The highest responsibility for the implementation of the learning process shall be borne by the institutions themselves, with their principals at the head. The Minister ensured that staff in kindergartens and schools received additional training, both from a health, technical and pedagogical point of view, training of staff in advisory services in order to carry out adapted but effective education and evaluation. They also received a manual with organizational models and recommendations developed by health professionals at the head of the special medical group for covid-19, NIJZ, experts in teaching-didactic fields, psychologists, social workers, universities, the Institute of Education and other professional institutions, practitioners, managers at all levels. The Ministry of Education has incorporated legal bases into the individual laws of the PKP for all adaptations and has provided substantive grounds with the assistance of the professional education councils and professional institutes and institutes. By means of measures, the Ministry provided sufficient computers for students and students to be able to use them for distance learning. Mišš prepared legal bases for a hot meal for all students and students who needed it during distance training and counselling services for children and parents, in particular for children with special needs and who are in socio-emotional difficulties. Research and evaluation of distance education have also been carried out. Thus, of course, the Minister does not hold that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not run the Ministry of Education. On the contrary, guide him properly, responsibly. There is no evidence of harmful and underestimating attitude towards sports organisations. Various measures have been taken to address the crisis successfully. Some comparisons with others show that Slovenia is far more successful here. In Germany, this moment, in April, in fact, sports clubs that were closed will receive assistance for December. Now. It also does not keep abreast of the preparation of an invitation to enroll in higher education. All procedures have been carried out on time, in accordance with normative acts. The only right and ethical decision was a thorough consideration of the relationship between the type and number of places of entry and the strategic development needs of Slovenia. The necessary consideration was demonstrated by an increase in the number of entry points in the field of health and information technology. The discussion followed the Slovenian Development Strategy, which was adopted in 2017. The manipulation, which speaks to 14,000 signatures in a petition against the abolition of public education, which appeared together with this perception, must be rejected. In fact, this 76 thousand 728 students are enrolled in the higher education and higher education system, 14 thousand of whom signed this statement. You see how little that is. In addition, we must say that there is no justification for an obvious advantage of the private sector. Among these 76 thousand 728 students there are only 4 thousand 953 of them who are enrolled in colleges with more than 50 per cent public funding. You can find this on the website of the Statistical Office of Slovenia. There is no evidence of a delay in the reform of the law on scientific research. According to the data, the draft text is coordinated with different stakeholders, public and private universities, institutes and other competent organisations. How much coordination is needed, in particular in the light of the development and the strategy mentioned, is evident from the opposition's proposal just tabled, which has passed the same law, which, for our understandings, shows obsolescence and stiffness. We really don't need that kind of marriage. The evidence of disputed recruitment at the MIP is unfounded. Each leader chooses his fellow workers, and the same is done by Minister Kustec, which took account of the sectoral legislation. The text of the proposal for interpolation shows that the applicants did not use the correct, publicly available data or empirically verify the situation on the ground. This is worrisome, because interpolation is a serious intervention in the work of the Ministry and Government, it disturbs the rhythm of work, which is a particularly difficult burden at the time of the epidemic. Therefore, applicants should give particular thought to this input of interpretation. Next. The minister showed great respect for both teachers, educators, parents, other stakeholders, unions, professional associations, and not least to the National Assembly. There's a lot of respect in this room that isn't always like that. On the basis of all available data, comparative analyses of education in Slovenia and the world, it can be concluded that none of the perceptions in the interpretation against Minister Simono Kustec holds and therefore does not support the Slovenian Democratic Party of Interpellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u17	The following will present the position of the LMŠ Group Mr Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! At the latest today, the Members should expect us to hear the resignation of Minister Simone Kustec. Since we are not, quite expected, today is actually one of the easiest decisions in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, and this is to vote in favour of the Minister's irrevocable farewell. Why? Because Minister Kustec is not on the side of children, students, students and their knowledge. It is also not on the side of development and socialisation. It is also not on the side of sport and a healthy way of life. Simona Kustec must also leave because she is not really a minister at all, but simply an enforcer of the policy of the real Minister Janez Janša. In short, when others, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, intervened in her department, she remained silent and did not protect him. When those who represent them or should represent them, that is, children, students, athletes, teachers, lecturers, researchers, parents and many others, called for solutions, she talked about three Zs, knowledge, health, trust. In fact, it was: closed, closed, closed. I should like to remain in the statements on its Zs, because unfortunately, it has increased its visibility mainly by reckless and unreasonable statements and by neglecting its source. In fact, the minister does not know or even understand her position and thus the responsibility she has assumed. Even those solutions she proposed failed to go further than the letter on paper. What helps us a lot of models if schools have actually been closed for more than three months? In short, she herself, with the extensive social skills that she should use in one of the most important sources, has completely failed. On purpose or not, it is no longer important today, the damage is done and I fear that it is to some extent irreparable. Let's see. In the first wave of the epidemic, the teaching was carried out remotely. Students, with the exception of their final years, and students have even finished their school year or school year at home. Such a form of education has revealed all its shortcomings. It has a negative effect on the emotional, psychophysical, cognitive development of children. The differences in knowledge and social inequalities are deepening. Let's just remind ourselves of the unequal conditions of home schooling. We still have many families that live in so-called white foxes and do not have access to the Internet. While we still have over 3,000 families that don't have computers. These are two conditions that need to be met so that you can go to long-distance education and at least get it out in quite normal conditions. We have been alerting everything mentioned above in the List of Marjana Šarc all the time, like all those involved in the educational process. The minister, inspired by the experience of the first wave of distance learning, had only one task, only one task, and it was to prepare schools for the second wave of the epidemic. How successful was she? Excruciatingly unsuccessful. On the other hand, she was very successful in laying down responsibilities. The responsibility for carrying out the long - distance teaching has passed to directors, teachers, and, last but not least, parents, but at the same time counting on their ingenuity. Unacceptable and repulsive action at the expense of our youngest and others, on whom we like to say the world stands. Although she kept saying that the educational institutions had to close the last and open the first, she did the opposite. The first one's locked, the last one's unlocked. Remember the car wash opening and the hairdressers? She wanted to say, doesn't it matter if our kids can write and read, the important thing is that they're beautiful and they're driving in clean cars? Minister, was it not the opinion of epidemiologists at the end of November that schools should be opened for at least the most vulnerable groups? In addition to the fact that the educational institutions have been closed for almost four months, I would like to point out its greatest mistakes to the detriment of many, if not to the home of all. Children with special needs were at home and without physical therapy and without other necessary personal assistance. We have constantly warned them about them in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we have proposed solutions for this group of children. They called, warned, almost asked parents and the professional public, and nothing changed. We can rightly ask ourselves what would happen to these children today if the Constitutional Court did not bring them back to school. For the first time, because the Minister did not want to understand the decision, the second time he succeeded. Let me get on with it. In one of the so-called PKPs, which was intended to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, the minister successfully set up an equalisation between the general and professional graduations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a Minister of Education who does not separate between a general and a professional graduation. Fortunately, after pressure from the public and the opposition, we were able to amend this issue and remove it from the PKPs. However, we have not succeeded in withdrawing concessions from selected private universities. For them, the Ministry was again given a slap in the face of the Constitutional Court, which held the case back. Come in. Let me remind you that the Government has not agreed to issue an invitation to tender for the study year 2021/2022. The epilogue of the story? The Secretary of State is silent and the Secretary of State is flying away. Just as the other personnel at the Ministry flew away, they warned of the Minister's unacceptable operation and management of the station. As a statistician within the government team, Simona Kustec won the biggest decline in the movement efficiency of Slovenian children in history. The efficiencies already declined by more than 13 % months ago, with a 20% increase in the percentage of obese children. Experts point to the developmental mania, the inaction of the central nervous system and the psychosocial consequences of children who are and will arise from lack of movement. Let me also remind you of the suspension of the international competition for five contestants. Five, respected colleagues and colleagues. And thanks to her defeat at the European competition for the Slovenian basketball team. As far as sport is concerned, it is necessary to say clearly and loudly: not only did it not help him, but it actually did him harm both in the short and the long term with senseless measures. Its greatest achievement in the field of sport is congratulations to Slovenian athletes, who are blocked by them, for their achievements and her participation in the ceremony of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Let me recall – without the mask and without taking responsibility, even though she violated her own decree. Is this part of growing up, your esteemed minister? Not according to your words, of course not. But according to you, it is part of growing up to take the 400 euro penalty because you want to go to school, even though you express it in a peaceful and democratic way. Shame. Unreasonably unreasonable and inhumane moves can certainly include the rejection of students to talk. She easily rejected them, even though she should be synonymous with dialogue. The whole educational process is a complex area. The teacher's profession is responsible. Responsibility for students, students, students, young researchers and many others. The minister on the other hand doesn't feel responsible for anyone. The fact is, you should have left your post a while ago. Unfortunately, he doesn't even know how to step down. And as I said at the outset, today, Members and Members of Parliament, there is a very easy decision to make. At least those who care about the future of our children, our education and our sport. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will, of course, support the interpretation against Minister Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u20	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Long after the covida-19 epidemic is over, we will remember this time with much pain. With pain at the tragic loss of human life, to the consequences of the economic and social nature that we will face for years. We will be forced to re-evaluate and lay more solid foundations for many social sub-systems that have exposed their weaknesses with the epidemic. Unfortunately, we will also have to face the consequences of poor policies, especially irresponsible politicians who have failed, know or wish in vital areas, which is education, to protect those who have become the greatest losers of this epidemic today in our country. And yes, unfortunately, the greatest losers of this epidemic are our children and our youth. And you never, like now all of our independence forward and even for a time before, needed so much the competent minister of education, science and sport, needed his support, alliances, needed his integrity, expertise, clans of restraint and compassion. In fact, this function has been given a completely new dimension, a new responsibility, such as no minister has ever had in the history of Slovenia. From the first day of the epidemic, the political function of the minister became a mission. The delegation, which asked the Minister immediately at the time of the work, to immediately remove the smallest bits of politics, client desires and interests, including personal weaknesses, from the functions of the Ministry. If I can sum it up. From the first day of taking over this mission, Minister Simona Kustec should sign a commitment with herself: I will become an unwavering ally of children, teachers, educators and parents, regardless of political pressures, I will be their support, loyal and compassionate interlocutor, and, in the face of unwarranted pressure, an unwavering leader who will lead the well-being of the children through all four epidemics and pitfalls of politics. We are here today because Dr Simona Kustec has earned an underestimation on all of these basic principles of this mission. Moreover, due to the policy of degradation of knowledge, total ignorance of the needs of children, the poverty and subordination of politics, the service to political and less professional considerations, its double moralization of students in the face of legitimate protests, the weak and unrealistic bragging of the success of distance education and the unwillingness to face the harshness and belief that the difficult reality of the epidemic is, unfortunately, also the educational eclipse in Slovenia, should have left the post of Minister months ago. Dear Minister Simon Kustec, I don't want my address to sound like a political attack today. In fact, as a woman and a politician, I feel an empathy for you, which is likely to arise from understanding the pressures that you have experienced as a minister on the day, and I believe you are experiencing an extremely difficult situation, but today you have brought yourself to this interpretation. For you have not been able to respond to all these difficulties of education, but you have conformed to the policies of the current government and its president, despite many warnings not only to us, but to a large part of society, parents, teachers and children. It was your duty to ensure, in difficult circumstances, that the field of education in addition to health will be the first concern of this government, but unfortunately you have always felt that the ministry you run is only one apparatus, which has extended the deadline of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, in which they decided to send the child home on the line of least resistance, so that there will be more time, in sayings of course, for more important topics. In doing so, you have overlooked, Your Honor, that education is one of the most important areas for which we should fight as a lion, but not with a mild hold on all the decisions that others have probably made in your place. Who, you know. You've never offered an alternative to distance learning or looked at a combined system, like part of a distance lesson, part of a school. You didn't propose half the time you were teaching. All schools throughout Slovenia have closed down and peaked. Much has been said about the consequences of these practices or injustices, and there is no time for us today to shed light on everything that is and because of all the things that are yet to come for us in the years to come. And we're not just talking about the lack of knowledge here, unfortunately we're also talking about hospitalizations because of the attempted murder of high school students, we're talking about disorders that are fed to children, about their emotional distress, about their apathy, about online violence. All this is the result of the long-term closure of schools. Dear Minister, all areas of education under your leadership have been neglected, thrown into some abandonment of self-explanation. Measures in the school area should be long-term and carefully planned. At least what we should have to do to date are to learn further adapted learning content, i.e. adapted curriculums, at least a five-year distance learning strategy, some plan, how to proceed, and a plan to fill these gaps that have arisen in the long-term closure of schools, guidelines for working with children. Some children only received remote learning computers in September, and you publicly boasted that we have one of the best distance learning systems in the world. And yes, Madam Secretary, we all wonder what will happen to graduation and national knowledge checks. Where are the trainings for teachers and students? Where are the accession programmes for children who have developed behavioural and emotional problems due to the closure of schools? What concrete measures will you take to compensate for the lack of movement and sports activities in children who already have an impact on children's mobility, according to research? What about the school competition? Where is the law on scientific research? Where's the higher education program? There's not enough time yet to list all the eyewitnesses. And not just us, the opposition, and your college colleagues have already asked you to consider your professional and ethical responsibility. Dearly beloved, learning is a light, a real Japanese proverb. The light that you deliberately extinguished for the cost of your own political survival to our children and young people without question. Honourable Minister Simona Kustec, therefore it is high time for you to resign from your post as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u22	Madam President, thank you. Dear Minister, distinguished three Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The area of education and education is an important co-formor of the general social political climate and of course of culture. During the 30 years of the independent country, it has become one of the most important social subsystems, which is an important drawing board of our overall civilizational progress and development, but at the same time, although large and strong, it is equally fragile and sensitive, especially in the last period when it frames and sets the pace of the new coronavirus. The demands of this situation, which has been following us for a good year, have finally been reflected in today's interpretation of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simono Kustec. The management of the school, science and sports sector has proved to be one of the most demanding in the last year. It has often been under the care of many, parents, staff in education and education, public and many on-call critics, and most of us politicians. In doing so, preschool education and primary education were the most exposed all the time. It is a matter of areas affecting the youngest and most vulnerable members of our society, and it is therefore right that the events and measures that have been listed with a view to preventing and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic should be weighed and assessed in terms of their effectiveness. In particular, in an area that has been subject to numerous criticisms over and over again due to the measures taken. The fact is, there is not one person in this room who would argue that distance education can replace schooling. The Minister has also stated this several times, but the epidemiological circumstances required a different decision, which was made with the knowledge that it would be the subject of excitement for those who know the educational structure and operation at the professional level, and even more so for those who have judged this measure lazily and mainly because of personal involvement, of course with a large emotional charge. This is not surprising, of course, because it simply shows how important a part of society and its processes represent a field of education and education. After learning from the reality of schools to the screens of cyber reality, we had an outbreak of infection in nursing homes in mid-October. There were just under 8,000 children, students, students, educators, and schoolchildren in quarantine. On average, every 25 students had to be quarantined. At the same time, the virus spread throughout the country into educational establishments. We must not forget, however, that the introduction of long-distance education was a measure served by many other countries, but each with its own specificity. Thus, it is not a measure imposed by the will or wrong professional decision of today's Minister of Interior, but rather a measure which protected the health of all participants in the educational area. This measure, as appropriate at the time of the epidemic, has put the right to health care of pupils, teachers, young children, educators, students, professors and all other staff at the forefront and has allowed the right to education to be applied in a manner that does not constitute a health risk. State. It is the State that must take such measures as are aimed at preventing, treating and controlling epidemic diseases. The country must provide an accessible and capable medical and health system. Health care must be sustainable and capable of providing quality health services to citizens. All of this must be provided to citizens and citizens at the time of dealing with covid-19 disease. And that was primary if you also want the strategic objective pursued by measures in the field of education and education. The closed schools were a difficult and final choice for everyone, including for the Minister on the ground of today's interpretation. However, the decision was necessary if we wanted to prevent a catastrophic scenario in the middle of the fall. In a situation that, in the face of worsening epidemiological images, has eroded confidence in epidemiologists' decisions, constantly looking for opportunities to politicise sensitive health issues and red alert health workers have done what they can, and above all what they have to do. The school space has moved away from a line on which the course of events depends only on accidents or blind luck, and has temporarily moved it into a virus-free digital environment so that young people and the youngest can learn at all. The alternative would be the chaos of constant quarantines, unsustainable logistics in schools and institutions, and the hard-to-control hot spots of new infections and the risk of an increase in the number of elderly in the home environment, which the virus, possibly brought from school, kindergarten or college, would not spare. Anyone who does not want to understand this has all the legitimate right not to be impressed, but does not have the right to politicise sensitive issues only because this is said by the opposition's attitude. Schools in Slovenia were not closed because of the Minister of Education, but because of the virus, the virus that has been shaping our daily lives for 12 months and which reminds us every day that the care for the health of ourselves and all those who associate with us, especially the most vulnerable, requires a lot of denial. The ministry led by Dr. Kustec was able to carry out the current tasks in addition to dealing with the epidemic in times of emergency. All necessary ICT equipment has been provided to schools in the last year in order to carry out long-distance education. In the first and second waves, thousands of pieces of computer equipment were delivered to schools, and 3.5 million euros were provided to Arnes during the first and second waves of the epidemic to support distance learning from the integrated budget. Through this platform, the transfer of unlimited data has been ensured, 600 000 euros has been provided to public universities for the purchase of equipment, and a digital renovation of the entire school space will be provided to public universities with computer equipment of around 290 million euros. It is expected that we have different views on the interpretation under consideration and that we otherwise value the solutions, including those that have been adopted by the Ministry of Education in the past year as part of the current tasks. We therefore believe that it is important, under the circumstances, to highlight good projects that have not received adequate attention due to the epidemiological situation. One such is certainly the Law on the Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education, which was adopted last December and has systematically regulated the functioning of educational institutions that can finally act as professional centres and thus provide the necessary comprehensive assistance to children with these problems. The Kindergarten Act, which was passed this January, has also brought some important innovations, particularly in the light of the prevention of past child abuse. It has brought stronger control and more effective sanctioning of offenders, including educators and educators, whose mission is one of the most important and noble in our society and is therefore expected to pursue the principle of the highest benefit for the child in their work. So, the minister made her first defense so that the kangaroos would never happen again. One of the indications to the Minister in today's interpretation is the suspension of the duty to prepare an invitation to enroll in higher education and to mislead the public. Some believe that this is even an example of the government’s smooth functioning. On another occasion, we may be able to establish this, but the facts are very clear here. A further consultation with representatives of universities and economic associations took place before the final adoption of the decision in the Government. Then, with the consent of all three public colleges, where the number of places of entry has only increased – and no one has failed – the government has agreed to the content of the invitations to enroll in the undergraduate and single master's degree programmes for the coming study year. In the study programme of the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, the entry places increased by 50 places and in the computer science and computer science programme of the University of Ljubljana by 50. In time, for the first time in the distance, colleges spoke to future students. On Wednesday, the Home Committee will also address the legal solutions provided for in the amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years, which will allow employment in those cases where the remuneration of employees is provided from research projects and programmes and funds for projects and programmes aimed at internationalisation and quality in education and science. In interpreting the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, there are many indications the content of which limits to personal accounts with the Minister and to her and her work express subjective anger. The Minister has already responded to all these allegations in the first place. It will certainly respond to them and to those who will stand by during the debate today. We are convinced that with today's interpolation we all express the same concern, this is concern for all children, adolescents, science and athletes. Today will be an opportunity for the Minister to answer all our questions and doubts, although there are also some such indications that belong to the field of personal discredit based on rumours and subjective interpretation of events. Belonging to one or the other, along with the frequency of the pronounced and pre-breed hand-to-hand ballet, when facing the camera's eye, is still the highest score on the attention-to-earth scale. But all of this is, in fact, seen and heard several times in the battle of gladiators in the parliamentary arena, where everyone recognises exclusively his political truth. But “but the shoes belong to Kopitar”! A safe and stimulating learning environment is one of the fundamental objectives of education and education, regardless of who the controller is feeding. If we want this not to be a virus, we will have to understand in the coming period all of us, and most of all the decision makers, who make important decisions every day, that battles are not fought in parliamentary benches and on television screens. In the SMC, together with the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, we commend all stakeholders in education and education for their outstanding efforts, ingenuity, patience, adaptability and denial that children, students and students have returned safely to kindergartens and school benches and that they will remain responsible for all of us there until the holidays. The performance of the Minister's removal attempt will take from morning to late evening, more than two working changes together. The polishing of knives and sharp teeth indicate that gladiatorism from antiquity to today has only changed its appearance and with it has an objective and rational debate when it comes to the struggle for power, fighting little. Therefore, today's interpretations in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will not, of course, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u24	In Levica, of course, we will vote for Simona Kustec to leave the post of Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Absent, passive and servile could be described. In particular, it damaged education and sport by its inability to cope with the epidemic, science and higher education, and by the servitude of the ruling party in attacks against public universities and institutes. In the process, all involved, children, parents, teachers, students, professors, scientists and others briefly pushed under the twin train of the epidemic and the privatisation of Janez Janša. If we start with one of the main perceptions addressed to the current Minister: failure to respect the profession in the planning and implementation of the measures. Although it is true that contempt for the profession and intelligence presupposes the government as a whole, yet Simona Kustec is a university professor, the Minister of Science, and in spite of this, has blindly followed every move decided by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Even in the management of independent institutions, such as the Statistical Office, she remained silent even at the head of the National Institute for Public Health. Remember, that's when the government in the middle of the epidemic tried to stop an epidemiologist and put a cymbal at the head of the institute, who is neither an epidemiologist nor can wear a protective mask. The government, belonging to Minister Simona Kustec, has often failed to take into account the expert group's opinion in the area that we are dealing with today. For example, when the expert group suggested opening schools for the first triad in December and for children with special needs. Well, schools didn't open until 50 days later, even though the only epidemiologist in the expert group repeatedly stressed the maximum that schools should close and open first. Minister Simona Kustec set up shopping malls in front of the school. The Christmas shopping chill, followed by the decision, delayed the opening of schools in January. The primary schools were subsequently closed from 26 October until 26 January, even the first half of the school year, together with the first wave for five months. The strategy for closing the schools last and opening the first was to replace the Minister with "what will you know if you can go shopping?" Her government colleague Restoration was much better concerned about the interest of private capital regardless of the damage to the school than the minister had ever cared for the needs of students and students. Thus, social inequality, which has gradually begun to reflect on the success of our students in recent decades, has hit the road with the epidemic – which household has a computer that does not have a computer home, what computer is it like, or parents have time to deal with children and help with their education, or run from chess to chess in the pursuit of survival in three different changes and so on. Of course, in this context, the worst blow was struck by children from working, farming, and other poorer families. All this, it seems, Minister Kustec Lipicer is not at all concerned. The World Health Organization, which was declared incompetent by the President of the Government, has always been clear on the subject of schools: decision-making on the closure or re-opening of schools must take into account the impact on the loss of education, on justice, general health and well-being of children; decisions should be made at local level, taking into account local trends in the transmission of infections; the closure of educational institutions should be considered only if there are no other options. The World Health Organisation further states that covid-19 has only a limited direct impact on children's health, around 8.5% of reported cases worldwide and very few deaths, and contrary to the low health risk, only the closure of schools clearly has a negative impact on children's health, education and development, family income and the economy. Similarly, a report from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control can be seen: closing schools should be used as a last resort because the negative physical, psychological and educational effects on children and the wider society are greater than the benefits of closed schools in controlling the epidemic. This report confirms that, for the first time, children, especially young children, are at lower risk of transmission of infection, and secondly, that school closure has no effect unless other restrictions on the collection of human beings are adopted at the same time. In addition, this same report states that the return of children to school at the beginning of the school year was not the main generator for the increase of infections during that period. The transmission of the virus in schools represented only a small part of covid-19 cases in individual countries. These are not the only documents that we can refer to today's interpolation proponents. Here are other studies and studies that you can expect to intervene in the debate. For the time being, let me just mention them quickly, let's say a Swedish study stating that complete school closure is not an effective measure to control the epidemic, or a German study concluding that the full opening of schools at the beginning of the school year did not lead to an increase in infections between children and parents. Or a third, Japanese, which similarly says that the closure of schools did not affect the reduction of the transmission of infections. Even the former head of the expert advisory group Bojana Beović explained that returning to school was not noticeable or significantly increasing the spread of infections. “It’s hard to say that opening schools would have a negative impact on the epidemic,” said Mrs Beović. Now let us take all these conclusions, conclusions, research and contrast them with the actions of Minister Simone Kustec. Have we received from the Ministry any study or research that would underpin the long-term and uncompromising closure of all schools that have been given priority even to shopping centres? The question is rhetorical. We didn't. Despite many calls, the Ministry did not provide any data, models, research, calculations or anything on the basis of which education measures would be rationally adopted, extended and implemented. However, the Minister did something different and sent two graphs from one foreign website in response to the interpolation, showing the movement of the infected and the dead behind the covido for some of the European countries selected. Now, watch out. They were marked by the Ministry of Green and Red when these countries closed down and when they opened schools. Is this the Ministry of Science's professional range of card-painting by graphs that don't prove anything? These graphs and colors, which I stress, are the chronic defence of Minister Simone Kustec at today's interpolation, for example, show that in Ireland, after the closure of the schools of infection, they have jumped to highs. For Slovenia, the number of infections and deaths fell after the schools opened. Or similar to Austria, infections began to decline before schools closed and deaths increased after schools closed. What I want to say is that these materials do not prove and cannot prove any causal link. It's like sticking apples and pears and saying that higher temperatures directly cause drowning, because on one graph we're looking at a time-consuming period of higher temperatures with the number of drownings of people who are bathing. What Minister Simona Kustec has sent in her defense shows all the misery of the current ministry's leadership. I wouldn't make the first triad with these cartoons. She also showed her underestimating attitude toward knowledge when she protested against students and students who peacefully and responsibly, after nearly five months of patience, demanded a return to the classroom. How inspiring it is, in fact, that students and students demand that they be willing to protest because their access to knowledge is hindered! Did the minister recognize how the student screams from knowledge, from school, from the spread of the spirit is wonderful? Did she respond to their demands, wishes, expectations? Did she tell them that she respected them and their desire for knowledge? She thanked them for caring enough to go to the streets? Calmed them down, assured them that the lesson would soon continue? None of this was done by the minister, except to protect the students when the Prime Minister accused them of being guilty of spreading infections. When the government wrote to 18-year-olds and dragged them before a judge, the minister allowed arrogant and cynical moralization to be committed to young adults whom she believes they understand and accept responsibility for their actions. “This is the first step into the world of adulthood,” she said. Yes, Madam Minister, the students have shown you what active citizenship is, and I am therefore very proud of them and the broad life horizon with which they have been equipped by a public school with enlightened teachers and professors. For a student’s protest is proof that they have successfully adopted tools for interpreting the world, including identifying injustices as well as the meaning of knowledge, and a moral imperative that when they see them, injustices be laid upon them. So the world is not only being interpreted, but they are acting to change it where they see it going wrong if we go after the famous 11th point of Marx's thesis on Feuerbach and the tasks that await philosophy. Unfortunately, for Minister Simono Kustec, we can say something quite the opposite. Apparently, she adopted the ideology of the Government, described by Hungarian philosopher Gáspár Miklós Tamás in his discussions on Eastern Europe, quote: "There has been a cover-up of oppression, the principles are changed interests, the nations are tribes with flags and the republics are gangs with statutes." If that sounds familiar to you, given the situation we have in the country, it's certainly not a coincidence. Gaspar Miklós Tamás hit a point with this clue. The second impression of interpolation is the servitude of Minister Janez Janša, along with attempts to destabilise and decommission public higher education. Simona Kustec, in short, in this republic as a group with statutes of her own age and responsibilities, which she throws under the nose of a student who has advocated open schools, has by no means proved to be a minister. Let's go concretely. The government, or SDS, has recently carried out several attacks on public universities and institutes with the network of selected private social colleges. The secretary was winking at both eyes. First, it blocked employment in public universities, where it is not possible to hire new researchers, even if they acquire a project that does not need budgetary resources, by the November Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2021 and 2022. But this blockage, be careful, is not convenient for private institutions. Effect? Rerouting researchers and money to private colleges, especially abroad. Come in. The SDS blocks the harmonised Law on Scientific Research and Innovation because it wants to erase the difference between public and private institutions in access to public money. She has delegated the law to her friends from private social colleges, whose interest is to draw out the entire chapter on concessions and so permanently stick to the budget bed. They also plot in the field of higher education with an appetite to automatically attach each accredited programme to budgetary resources. The Minister does not define all of this and sends others to the National Assembly to answer in her name and do the dirty work of protecting Janez Janša or his friends, while they spread the Slovenian higher education. It's a third case. The new university does not meet the conditions to continue to exhaust the state budget with EUR 2 million each year. Since it was a private, home university of SDS, accreditation was needed, a law guard was said to be throwing himself through a window to ensure the quality of higher education. The Minister therefore, at the request of the SDS in the PKP6, imposed a lobbyist article which postponed the accreditation of the New University's SDS. Janša’s friends, however, must not be left without the trough, even though they have no idea about higher education. The minister during the epidemic was not the most productive, kind of, but this favor to government friends and privatisation is, however, not a dilemma, she will take care of. Fourth time. By landing and at the total eclipse of the Minister, Janez Janša blocked the call for admission to study programmes and demanded, in the form of targeted education, that admission to social colleges be reduced, in public universities, of course. It was another attempt to redirect students and money from public to private social colleges, no matter how distasteful these private colleges are, in fact, private colleges of SDS. The academic sphere has responded to all the disturbing developments in higher education by preparing a petition against the destruction of public education and science, obtaining signatures from all universities, institutes, SWIZ, the Student and Diacean Organisation of Slovenia and several former rectors. Only the first day was signed by 9,000 500 people, together with 14 thousand signatories. What followed was the disgraceful structure of the government, which was performed over the rectors in Brdo on 4 February this year. The President of the Government compared them with the dean of private institutions that advertised their partisans there, that's facsimile-business interests. The representatives of higher education had to listen to the insulting dissemination of representatives of trade associations, trade, textile industries and other sectors, which are science and development of the ninth concern. We will forever remember the statement of the Minister of Economics, who said, quote: “We have a deficit between builders, heavy-duty truck drivers, tow drivers, sellers, welders, soldiers and workers in processing and catering, so I expect more attention from representatives of universities.” This stupid statement beautifully illustrates what the ideology of subjugation of education means to the economy. We won't remember the Minister's statements because she didn't make them. Instead of defending herself in public education and the quality of education, the Minister allowed direct attacks on him with her servitude and silence. There is clearly no role and no word in the privatisation and planned reforms of higher education. All ministry policies begin and end with the interests of Janez Janša, who, as we know, does not like smart people. Minister Simone Kustec's rulings say she's obviously in agreement with this and that's why she has to leave. In Levica, we believe that the Minister understands and accepts responsibility for her actions and will leave the position of Minister irrespective of the outcome of today's vote. This would ultimately be the first step into the world of adulthood. Children, parents, teachers, students, professors, scientists and everyone else will have a chance to give her a hand for the first time in her term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Iva Dimic, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u26	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Dr. Simon Kustec, dear Member and Members of Parliament! The year of rule in the emergency situation caused by SARS-COV-2 covid-19 was an extraordinary effort on the part of each minister. The management of the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth in addition to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is one of the most responsible and challenging ministries at this time. None of us imagined a year ago that the crown would virtually stop us, lock us up in bubbles, and that our way of life would be completely changed. Being responsible for yourself, your neighbor, your children, your youth, your teachers, is older in these extraordinary times a courageous act that demands solidarity, empathy and dedication. All the observations made in the interpolation against Minister Simoni Kustec do not hold up and have already proved unfounded, malicious and false during this month. When the schools closed their doors last March and set up distance education, we all joined together, students, students, students, parents, teachers, teachers, directors, into an unknown and unknown environment. It turns out that the preparation and introduction of digitisation into the school system has been lacking since before long despite the promises of some previous ministers and the investment of funds in computerisation. Here it is to commend the pro-active role of the Minister and the Ministry, which immediately approached the active introduction of distance education and responded very well with the entire education system, despite the difficult circumstances. I would like to point out that, in the last two weeks of long-distance education without adequate prior experience, it has been established in a way that works well, and, of course, the key objectives have been pursued. These are: to ensure a continuous educational process adequately adapted to specific circumstances; to prevent greater differences between pupils in the adoption of knowledge at this time and to provide special care for vulnerable groups; to provide appropriate tools for technical support to teachers in the implementation of distance education; to monitor distance education analyses and, of course, to ensure continued cooperation. One of the main aims of distance education is to ensure that students have contact with the educational field and content within it and to maintain the level of knowledge achieved among students and to encourage them to achieve the objectives in accordance with the curricula and to encourage them to act proactively and to care for knowledge and development. The Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth was aware and is aware today that it is necessary to provide students with professional support in the substantive sense, as well as support and assistance in understanding and responding to the current social situation. Communication was intensified with the associations of directors and directors, with communities, NGOs, universities, institutes, unions, representatives of the student and student organisations, representatives of the Association of Assets of the Councils of Parents of Slovenia, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, the Advocates of the principle of equality, the NIJZ, the Department of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and with the whole public directly linked or involved in education and education, of course, parents working in education and education. It is therefore one of the central recommendations prepared with the assistance of experts at the Institute of Education, Directors and Psychologists, that teachers reduce the amount of material in distance education compared to learning in the classroom and focus on basic content to achieve the basic objectives of the curriculum. The plan of the teaching process for each department should not be a copy of the curriculum and should be made meaningfully adapted to the work on the distance. That is why there is a great deal of gratitude to all teachers, professors, psychologists, educators, and principals that they have been associated with parents and students. Schools have also provided distance education with advice for students who need it. Professionals encouraged the students, even though physical presence was not possible, to cooperate, to connect, but in a different way, to adapt the situation. In addition to teachers and counsellors at schools who provide support for students with regard to social and emotional distress, a collection of measures and aid resources for individuals was prepared at national level, namely children, adolescents or adults and organisations, and published on the NIJ website. The fact that we have the longest period of school closure in Slovenia is stated in the interpretation itself puts on a lie a very professional research task of the Research and Documentation Sector of the National Assembly. As a result of the expansion of the covida-19 pandemic in March 2020, most of the countries surveyed closed all educational institutions, including kindergartens, as a rule, education was carried out only remotely. Of all European countries, only Sweden was partly an exception; in recent months and weeks we can read a lot of explanations, expert articles and research. The other countries across Europe began learning again at the end of April and in May 2020, which also applies to Slovenia. In some countries, however, schools remained closed until summer vacations. After the holidays, the school was initially held in classrooms, but since the health situation began to deteriorate during the period from October to December 2020, many of the school’s countries have re-closed and have moved on to distance learning. The measures originally envisaged for a shorter period were mainly available in February or March 2021. The situation across countries was different. On pages 8 and 9, a comparative table shows which countries have the longest closed schools, namely Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania. It is important to stress that the Minister has worked all the time for the welfare of children and adolescents, there is no doubt about it, as well as to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on children and adolescents. Therefore, a brochure with models and recommendations for education and education in the Republic of Slovenia was prepared prior to the summer of 2020 in a covida-19-related situation. That's the one. [[shows the object]] It's a brochure. I think we all got it. That is why the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has provided schools and other educational institutions with a range of districts, guidelines and recommendations on how schools, teachers and teachers and other professionals and workers should meet the challenges of carrying out educational work and providing support to pupils and students and students during the epidemic and of closing and returning to school premises. With a view to empowering teachers and other professionals to deal with complex issues related to the situation of the epidemic, a number of trainings and seminars have been and are still available. Despite the pandemic and the difficult situation in the educational system, the work of the Minister and the Government was also carried out at the legislative level at that time. During this time, the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs was adopted; nine anti-Korona packages were adopted that helped parents, students, students, students, educators, teachers; a law on free kindergartens was passed for the second, third and subsequent children of the same family; and a law on scientific research activities was already in place to build up a system of funding for scientific research activities in Slovenia. I would like to point out that the coalition is also working towards a coalition agreement that is binding on this government and is a timetable for all ministries and coalition parties. The Minister's efforts to ensure quality education are also reflected in the achievement of the funding already provided in the 2020 rebalancing and in the budget for 2021 and 2022. As early as 2020, the Minister provided an additional €87.5 million with a financial plan balance for the smooth functioning of institutions and institutions. Thus, funds for scientific research activities have increased. In 2020, funds increased by €38.6 million, representing 16% more depending on 2019. This year, 2021, science will increase by €40 million, which is 14.3 per cent more relative to 2020. Funds for education, education and sport are increasing, as it also increased funding by €10.5 million for education and sport for 2020, which is 6% more depending on 2019. In 2021, the funds will be higher by €134.3 million, which is 7.5% more relative to 2020. These figures speak in favour of the Minister that she has managed, despite the difficult situation due to covid-19, to provide more funding for schools, colleges and scientific research activities. All the successful and successful tasks and the successful response to the epidemic and opposition were assured by the Minister, Dr Simono Kustec, in her conviction that she had done everything she could and knew. And it's a success. Members of New Slovenia we have been monitoring her efforts and work all the time, so we trust her that the Minister will do so well in the future. We will not support the interpretation, but I would like to report to the Minister with a message of positive thoughts: “Keep going – this is the whole secret of life”.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next, will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In 20 points, the interpolation signatories to the Minister, Dr Simoni Kustec, report on what went wrong in the performance of her ministerial function. Among others, we read the following. Inefficient, inconsistent and harmful policy implementation, resulting in the longest closure of schools and kindergartens in Europe. Unwarranted abandonment of education for children with special needs, non-compliance with the epidemiological profession in opening and closing schools, and transfer of responsibility to individual schools and teachers. Discrimination against certain groups of schooling children and students. Threatening the future of young people due to the absence of a plan to address the negative social and learning consequences of school closure. Harmful, exclusive and underestimating attitude towards sport and sports organisations. Harmful proposal to end the funding fund for NGOs. Lack of dialogue with trade unions, executive associations and professional workers, lack of dialogue and absence of communication with parents and students. Inadequate advocacy of the interest of pupils, students and students in relation to the government. Absence of systematic evaluation of lessons far away. Absence of measures to prevent the social distress of young people during the epidemic. Delays in the submission and preparation of the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation and strategic documents in the field of higher education, science and innovation. Putting the interests of private educational institutions ahead of the quality of higher education. Blocking the employment of researchers in public research organisations. Also: poor image and lack of respect for measures to prevent the spread of covida-19. All of this and more are also the reasons for many, including our calls for the resignation of the Minister. In this situation, not only the parliamentary opposition, but also many other stakeholders in the field of education and education, including employees, but of course many parents and students. In the SAB Group, we were among the first to draw attention to the poor judgment of the Minister and Government in one of the most restrictive measures in the entire epidemiological crisis – the closure of schools for all students and students. For 92 days without interruption, schools in Slovenia have inexorably closed their doors. At first, we all patiently waited for the key 14 days to pass, but what soon became clear that these 14 days would be very long. So long that some schoolchildren, students, and their parents even went to the streets in distress and protested against such an educational policy. At the SAB party, we have repeatedly called for respect for all government measures to address the crisis, but at the same time, we have repeatedly called for thorough reflection and weighing when it comes to the most sensitive measure, at least in our view, the closure of schools. We are still convinced that only education in school makes it possible to achieve all the educational and educational goals, as well as the cognitive and psychosocial development of children. This cannot be compensated for by any form of virtual interaction and by a complete form of distance education. For the first time in the SAB, we pointed out this already on November 5th, and then on November 9th, when we repeated our appeal and addressed a re-thinking and decision for the benefit of the children. Third time. Last December, we asked the Government and the Minister to respect the Constitutional Court's decision to reopen schools for children and adolescents with special needs and proposed that others be considered. Fourth time. At the end of January, we addressed a question to the President of the Government with a call for the immediate opening of schools for all children and students. And a fifth. We requested an urgent meeting of the Education Committee, where we discussed the consequences of long-term isolation and distance education on our children. After all, and given that no serious steps have been taken by the Minister or her Ministry in the summer or at the time of the closure of the school, it was the only possible and logical move to successfully carry out the training. All the 20 points the opposition has pointed out are well-founded, but according to PS SAB, the fact that, as the guardian of children, students and students, the Minister has not taken a stronger and more firm stand for respect for their rights and for the establishment of a safe learning environment in schools is a sufficient reason to confirm the interpretation. At the same time, today it is not just the minister, her ministry, Janez Janša’s government, or perhaps the SMC’s party. Today it is also intended for children and students who have been isolated for more than four months because of the ineffective organisation of education during the epidemic. For so long, children’s laughter and vigor were almost no longer heard. They were replaced by pressure. Pressure at months of school closure and isolation. All parents, grandparents, teachers, and teachers who have experienced their own personal hardships may be able to do so. So the biggest victims of the epidemic are the ones we call our greatest wealth. Children are the ones who paid an extremely high price in order to infect the virus as a country, as long-term distance education on their acquired knowledge and psychosocial development has left some irreparable consequences. Anxiety and depression are expected to increase significantly, according to experts. Anxiety by 40% and depression by 55%. The pressures have brought them so far that those who are in the most rebellious years, although their school obligations do not smell much — remember when we were so old ourselves — demanded the opening of schools and, as a sign of protest, brought school bags at the door of closed schools. The fact that you have even supported the punishment of your students says the most about you, Your Honorable Minister. Today's debate is also about children and adolescents with special needs, who need professional specialist assistance all the time in addition to the help of their parents. Lack or failure to implement them means a step back and significantly slower progress in development. In order to provide these children and their parents with adequate assistance and the reopening of institutions, the Constitutional Court’s decision was necessary. Only this had to explain the consequences of such policy implementation on these kinds of children. Let me remind you that, in the previous mandate, at the initiative of the party to which the Minister belongs, we unanimously adopted the Law on the Comprehensive Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs. Today, we are talking about all children and adolescents who need such treatment, but we expected that the Minister of Education, as the guardian of the educational process, would also follow the values that are the essence of the law. But in public, we have always listened to constant and always the same excuses to reopen schools only when the epidemiological picture improves. Now the painting, thank God, is better, and that makes us extremely happy. Nevertheless, we are interested, and that is the essence of this debate, what will be the difference with the possible new wave of epidemics that experts are already predicting and are already feeling in neighbouring countries. We could follow the example of Germany, by which we all like to imitate ourselves so much, and make arrangements to adjust school premises. There, with the help of one of the parents, they installed adequate ventilation. There are also many good practices in some other countries, but they require the will and energy to be verified, adapted and introduced into our practice if necessary. Unfortunately, we haven't noticed this kind of will and energy. Will this be the case every time the epidemic situation worsens, all of us tremble before the new closure of educational institutions? How many times will our children stop going to school just this school year? The right of children to school should come first. This is the opinion of the World Health Organization and also the position of our government consultative group. During the growing-up period, the school is a meeting place with others, a place for learning, cooperation, socialisation and maturation. It is also a place to confirm, endure stress and solve problems. All these skills could not be developed by children at home. The late school year of a nine-year-old and a graduate can never be replaced by anyone. This is much more than our minister is obviously aware of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who said a long time ago that as a society we must strive to keep schools open until the last. In response to the Minister's interpretation, she points out that she has always advocated the early opening of schools, but we can only ask ourselves where the impact is. Perhaps in the short term of opening some schools and then closing up again? Schools are not buildings that you can close and open, they are children and teachers, and especially a lot of knowledge for our future. And not just that. The Minister seems to have forgotten about the dialogue not only with children, students and students, including their parents and all the employees in education and education. If she says she worked with them and listened to them, she may not have heard them. Your answers, the minister you are referring to in the text of the interpretation, testify to this. There may have been even a dialogue, but you didn't know how to listen. There were lots of suggestions, lots of letters, lots of ideas. Despite your refusals, it remains clear that the Ministry with you at the head of the summer and later, during the closing of the schools, has not prepared an appropriate plan to teach you how to conduct the epidemic. Instead of being determined to be the voice of children in school and students, your deafening silence has always been reflected in the public. However, you have contacted the students who protested the opening of schools to grow up and take responsibility for the legitimate expression of their disagreement with your and government policies. Whether this statement has been the fruit of your thinking or, as we have seen many times, the result of the thinking of the Prime Minister is completely inappropriate and suggests a misunderstanding of the function you are taking. It comforts us that these same students will soon be full - time students and will be able to assess this relationship properly in the elections, and they will probably not be the only ones. We will vote in the SAB Group to confirm the interpretation of Minister Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present as the last position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the coming weeks, we will witness more interpretations where we will seek and investigate the responsibility of individual ministers or ministers. Today, it is up to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simono Kustec, to interpret work and responsibility. At the outset, I would like to point out that Minister Simona Kustec is not a bad minister, but she has been faced with events that have been unexpected and that have not yet been witnessed to them. It had to take into account different risks and opinions, and its task was therefore particularly ungrateful. In the Desus Group, we believe that the Minister is aware that in her mission he must take care of the welfare of both students and students. By interrupting the usual way of education, many improvisations and learning were needed, but many compromises have been made between teachers, students, parents and health professionals, and unfortunately – as the saying goes, “who also makes mistakes” – has also made some mistakes that will teach her, her team and all future ministers. The fact is, there was a need to limit contacts, and schools were places where there was a potential possibility of infection with the Coronavirus. Perhaps only the title of the paragraph in an article that was published online last year: On the first day of school, an infected parent escorted the student to school. Probably there have been a lot of similar stories throughout the epidemic, our job as responsible individuals is to protect everyone who can potentially be threatened. It is true that children or younger children are not as susceptible in principle to the worst symptoms of coronary disease, but they may be carriers of the virus and may infect those for whom the course of viral disease could also be fatal. Instead of teaching children how to care for others, how to care for proper hygiene and how to handle them responsibly, we have been able to read in social media publications and also some articles about calling on young people to rebel against basic epidemiological advice, including by members of some political parties who have never condemned such cases. Such conduct and summoning are by no means responsible. In the Desus Group, we discussed the content of the interpretation against Minister Simono Kustec thoroughly. However, she is responsible as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, which she is probably aware of. She was photographed without a mask on the event where a suitable distance was not maintained. There has been injustice and harm to children with special needs, as long-distance education is by no means appropriate. And more cases could be cited where we fully agree with the opinion of the interpellation proposer. We believe that following the adoption of measures to prevent the spread of coronary infections, many have found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, particularly those already in the most vulnerable groups. There is no doubt that the underlying circumstances have a negative impact on the mental well-being of people. Members of the Desus Group agree that Minister Kustec has not done everything in her area of action during the epidemiological crisis, but it is difficult to say that she deserves to be dismissed. If today's interpolation is not successful, we would like to inform the Minister that he is even more aware of the responsibilities that come with her position. The mistakes that have been made should be a reminder to her and to all future ministers who will face a similar situation. We must be aware that this will now be our new reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. First of all, Dr. Tashner Vatovec wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President. As usual, I will try to respond mainly to what the Minister has pointed out in the presentation of her reply, as well as to what has then emerged in some positions. First of all, it's about opening and closing schools. I think that this very study, which one of the Members warned about, is very useful and, of course, very eloquent. When we're talking about the longest-last-lasting school closure, it won't be seen. [[shows the margin]] , in this study you have blue-coloured countries that had the longest closed schools, and these are North and South America and some Middle East and African countries. We have always stressed that we are champions in Europe, and this data is what they hold. Among the greens are Italy, Great Britain, Croatia and so on. In short, countries that are very close here. This study also shows that we are actually very close to each other on this closure and that Slovenia is actually among the recorders. Here I would like to highlight another aspect, the fact that in the so-called second wave or school year, 92 days of closed school were completely closed. Even this long period in one block is not minor. The different countries and Austria, as well as Italy, had a much more extensive period or periods when schools were closed, and some periods during which schools were still active. When I hear a lot about how this was something that needed to be done to protect health and so on, I wonder if you are actually the one who declares it in this Chamber when you consider what it means for children. We are talking mainly about the first triad, about children aged six to nine, who had to face something incomprehensible at the time of this epidemic. And this is what the World Health Organization stresses. In the case of education at the time of the epidemic, it is essential to maintain the continuity of live learning in particular, rather than to consider the right to health as you call it. Once again, we have never insisted that the Ministry of Education should completely ignore the NIJS recommendations, professions, epidemiologists. However, we argue, and this has not happened that the Ministry and the Minister should to the maximum extent possible ensure that education continues and is carried out to the lowest extent possible. That didn't happen. The Minister never insisted on waiting for school closure or listening to expert advisory groups, a government expert advisory group that had never advocated that schools should be closed in October, or later ensured that they should be opened in early December, which was then disclosed in the minutes of this advisory group. Minutes which clearly stated that the position of the government advisory group was that schools should be opened. What does the government do, and what does the minister keep silent about? It opens a number of activities, hair salons, car washes and then combines in that large opening of shopping centres and similar in the second half of December. At that moment, we never heard clear and firm demands from the Ministry that it was wrong to open schools first, as Mrs Beović and Dr Fafangel said and so on. There was no voice that would require schools to be opened, not shopping malls. Here, the Minister could follow her colleague Restoration. At the beginning of the epidemic, he began to press hard to prepare some recovery programme, and also provided strong financial injections to maintain the profitability of capital. However, the Minister did not show this zeal and did not show that she was concerned about the most important capital we have in this country, and that is knowledge. If at least one piece of the engagement that Minister Restoration has shown for private interests had shown for public education, we would be in a much better condition today. What's still important is redirecting this debate to another field. We have heard about how the government has done well, how the measures have been taken by those who have allowed children to go to school today and that they are likely to go to school by the end of the school year and that this is essentially just a political debate. Yeah, it's a political debate, and it has to be. We are in the National Assembly, we are politicians, representatives of the government, representatives of the opposition; and this is by definition a political debate and must be a political debate. You have adopted a political function, you have taken political decisions that have passed the recommendations of the profession, past epidemiologists, and you must take political responsibility for this. That's why we're here, so we're using a political tool called interpolation – to take political responsibility. Once again, the profession was one thing: schools should close last and open first. You have decided not to take this into account and to take into account what was the position, obviously, of the President of the Government or just, I don't know, of yours, and to bypass this position of the profession. Here let the debate not at all fall into what is professional, what is not professional, what is political, what is ideological. Of course, this debate must be political and we are demonstrating that the Ministry's decisions have never been professional. As far as some smithing into the stars is concerned, he's working at a distance. Remember that statement of the Minister, how we are the best in the world in the distance work, in the Studio City show, which was kind of surprising as a statement like that, but of course also completely unfounded. At the time the Minister declared this, there was no study, no analysis, no opposite evaluation of how this distance learning was going on. Moreover, we had those birth spasms of Arnes, we still have - no matter what the ministry wrote in response to interpolation - problems with accessibility, accessibility to online connections, and unfortunately also a problem with accessibility to information technology. In its reply, the Ministry writes that they provided a large number of electronic devices for distance work, but at the time when this was happening, whether the ministry was too late or not. We're still monitoring humanitarian and other charities, or at least a week ago, we're collecting this particular equipment, these computers. Far from being as successful as trying to show off. At the same time, this is also one of the main points, one of the main points of view, a lack of some evaluation that would be systematic and comprehensive. The minister then announced that two expert groups would be set up this month, which would also in some way lay the groundwork for how to proceed. I say one year too late. At the moment the Ministry faced the need to take some measures in primary, secondary and university schools, when it decided that schools would close down, that it would take a long time to study distance, it should start working on preparing more things. One more point, I stress, is the systematic evaluation of how this type of learning takes place, and the other one, the exit strategy; a strategy that would allow schools and, above all, students to make up for what the consequences and difficulties of such learning are. The Ministry only writes in its reply to the interpretation that they are aware of the consequences of such distance training, but we do not yet have some concrete answers to what this means and how we will deal with it. A study is being announced to be published in August and will then begin to prepare additional measures. It's all too late, systematic and at the same time these things should be happening, literally life time. Another thing that we have often warned about and that is still being learned is the lack of dialogue. In this reply, the Minister also repeatedly stressed how dialogue had been conducted, how they had listened, how they had worked successfully with all of them. This is one of the eccentric lies directly challenged by those with whom the Ministry is supposed to cooperate. Here we have a number of these interlocutors with whom the Ministry is expected to cooperate successfully, who have repeatedly denied this. For example, the Chief Secretary of the Education and Education Union said he wondered why the teachers were there, why they were there, why they were there to say or what would work or not; or just to follow orders coming from the Ministry to be quiet and to listen to what came as instructions. What is even more important is what the President of the Association of Directors and Directors, Mr Pecan, has pointed out on several occasions and in several places. In a recent interview, he said that, I quote, “government deviates from its own standards and this is what we fear”. Because the government's deviation from its own criteria makes them uncomfortable because they see, once again, the quote, "it doesn't matter what the epidemiological picture really is, but it's going to be a matter of the current decision." He also claimed that schools were ready to open to expect timely notices and instructions. At this urgent meeting, which took place in the National Assembly, he pointed out something else that the Ministry publicly claimed that the measures had been agreed with the directors, although their views were not taken into account. This is the President of the Association of Directors and Directors here in public, debarred in this National Assembly. He said – I say clearly and loudly here that this is not the case. This is the dialogue the Ministry of Education presents itself. Similarly, the President of the Association of Education Workers of Slovenia said at this same meeting: "The absence of the teaching profession in school policy is unfortunately so long that it has become self-evident and should never have been. The consequences of measures that have so far not been based on a broader professional consensus and in close communication on the policy-prax-research relationship will return as a boomerang and instead of putting us in another society, into another century." Another indication of how not to listen to the profession and how the overall management of the education area was essentially neglected at the time of the epidemic. We have also heard today that you did not want to meet with students who, before they went to protest, asked for hearing, for audio, so that they could approach you and tell you what their problems were. This is a dialogue, and this also says a lot about the list sent by the Ministry as an annex to the response. We have a list on five or six pages, an Excel table where all meetings are listed between the Ministry and various stakeholders, sometimes by themselves or with government representatives, but this is not yet evidence of dialogue. The fact that you are sitting at 60 or 80 meetings with different institutions does not mean that you have listened to them, that you have followed them, and that you have come together to some solutions that would be at least a minimum or a minimum consensus. The minister also said that they knew what they were doing at the Ministry – I am not sure – and especially for whom. I agree with that, but we know very well who they are working for on the MIZH, in particular with regard to these perceptions that we have cited in the interpretation. Schools with special needs. I think it makes sense to lose extra words here. Today, documents have been disclosed showing that the expert group is, once again, expert group documents indicating that this group proposed the opening of schools for children with special needs before the Constitutional Court had to cut down on this area and open schools with special needs by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Minister has also ignored the profession here and has not even begun to prepare any serious plans or scenarios for this opening. If the Constitutional Court hadn't intervened, it would probably have stayed that way. As for the magic wand, no one ever expected or asked a minister or any other member of the government to destroy or erase the virus with a magic wand. No one can do that and it's pointless to talk about it. However, the expectations or demands of a wide part of society to manage the epidemic were responsible and serious. I will not talk again about how the government has laid down in this area, but I will point out once again that the Ministry of Education and the Minister has not done what should have been done. At the same time, the secretary said they didn't know and couldn't do anything else. Exactly this is our observation – that unfortunately you did not know and were able to manage these epidemics differently, otherwise organize the school process and education, even though you had relatively sophisticated models. Models by which we could do things like the Germans are said to close schools locally according to the epidemiological situation, which is also one of the recommendations of the World Health Organisation; to record the situation by region, by local communities and therefore to close and open up certain activities. The models prepared by the Ministry included these options, and the two submodals are such in this material. But no, it was the easiest thing to decide, to close all schools at once, very early, once again, and leave them, even though many foreign research, Unesco, the World Health Organization, epidemiologists, development specialists, the expert group have always advocated that schools should be opened or closed up earlier. What has been said about the opposition is that it is not fair to leave the mark in such an important area by interpolation, I will just turn this argument around. True, it is not fair that such a large stain is left in this area, in the field of education, a stain shed by Minister Simona Kustec. As far as the Ministry's achievements are concerned, some of them were listed. I would just like to point out here that the Kindergarten Act was a law of law. In fact, the law that turned out to be the most important thing at that time; and this is the financing of private kindergartens by the congregation. This was part of the previous government's proposal, which then disappeared under this government. And this may be one of such symptomatic cases where it is in fact clear that he is actually Minister of Education Janez Janša. In the position of the SDS Group – this is the only thing I will get caught up in regarding positions – Mrs Škrinjar said that the appointment of directors takes place in some old-fashioned, self-government, unionist way and that this is problematic, among the lines, that it is something out of date, controversial and that it is only a means to create an army for the main unionist; and that this will have to be changed. Minister, I hope that you do not share this view, that you do not share such views on the autonomy of directors or also of the principal association, not least of all the union organisation, where someone marks this as some kind of preoccupation of the past, something that needs to be rejected and destroyed in the Cali. That's so introductory. I think that both the answer is now alive and the answer that we have received in writing is empty. He's trying to stay on some surface with no concrete answers or arguments. There is not even an attempt at a number of points that are clearly difficult to rule out in such a way that the answer is designed in such a way as to attempt to show the opposite side by means of data or by counter-arguments. In the vast majority, however, there are many excuses and empty words, such as guidelines, recommendations and so on. Both confirm that there was no concrete effort, especially the will and courage that I mentioned at the outset, put in to defend the area of education or education more widely during this crisis period of the epidemic. I think that these are the right reasons, as someone said, that we will have Members today to do the job, and that is, of course, to support the decision to dismiss the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text was now wanted by another Magi proponent. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. In her presentation of the response to the interpellation, the Minister, however, laid down a number of things that the Ministry had done in the past year. Most of these cases were inherited from the previous government, from the former minister, by Dr. Pikal. You have highlighted, Madam Minister, for example, the Kindergarten Act, which has indeed been adopted by the National Assembly, even unanimously, but without one very important provision, namely the financing of private kindergartens or the decision-making of municipalities regarding the co-financing of private kindergartens in cases where there are enough cities in public kindergartens. For unknown reasons, this has fallen out of your law, although it has been prepared, I stress, by the previous government. Therefore, we had to re- table the law on kindergartens in the procedure, and the law on kindergartens is now in the process. He received a green light on the parental committee and will be briefly discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The second thing you've highlighted as a major success is the Children with Behavioral Disorders Act. This law has also been prepared under the previous government. You pointed out – otherwise I don't know why, because it's not yet in the procedure – a new umbrella law in the field of science, technology and innovation. In fact, you have not done anything in this law since the term of office, although the law has already been drafted and coordinated with all key actors, and we have therefore recently tabled it. Moreover, the only one working on this bill was your recent Secretary of State, Mr Gasparič, who was suspended, probably not because of you, but because of the decision made by the President of the Government. Now, as far as the concrete allegations of interpolation are concerned, you have responded very little or very generally. You started by wanting to get back to normal as soon as possible. Okay, well, I'd expect you to want to go back to some excellence, above average and so on, but you don't see these ambitions in your leadership. You also provided us with some research that you projected, but I did not see the key data; you did not show us where we were in Slovenia about the closure of schools. And this is the key observation that we have been giving you from the democratic opposition by the interpellationers all the time. In Slovenia we had schools closed for the longest time in Europe. And please, Madam Minister, answer me. Only in the second wave of 92 days. And here I think it was a problem. Let us leave the first wave, but in the second wave we had the schools closed for 92 days, although, as has already been said today, the profession, either the epidemiological profession, the medical profession as well as, of course, even more logically, the school, the educational profession, called for schools to be opened as soon as possible. You didn't listen to that. And we're not just talking about two options, a closed and open school, a bunch of other variants are in between, a bunch of other variants. The working groups have provided you with concrete suggestions on how schools could be opened, how by model, that half of the school students at home, half a mile away, could have done much better teaching than we did after this most simple model of yours. That's the simplest thing to say, we're going to close schools, it's the safest thing to do, kids are going to answer computers and participate in school. Dear Minister, since teaching is not only an ex-cathedra teaching, which can also be done on screen, but probably much more difficult and much less personal than children listening to instruction. I say listen if we talk in this sense ex cathedra in classrooms, but school is much more. School is a socialization. It may also mean that the withdrawal of children from the home environment of Marsikdo lives in difficult conditions, and many are hungry because he does not get that warm meal, the lunch that schoolchildren receive in school. Many could not carry out long - distance teaching because they did not have the right conditions. Perhaps spatial, as we have heard, have helped many NGOs, many have not had suitable software, such as computers, information equipment and so on. Many did not have a suitable internet connection. Parents of many children, however, are unable to help in these matters. It's a reality. There has indeed been very great damage to children here, and I really regret it; and I asked you before, but there was no clear answer as to why you did not follow the recommendations of the profession. What was the reason for what was the real reason? Dear Minister, after all, you come from a public higher education institution that I value very much; and I do not understand how you can submit to the Prime Minister's decree and in some ways give full integrity to everything that should be taken into account in such decisions. There were no clear answers to all these matters. There were some flat-rate answers, but for example, you didn't mention your attitude toward punishing children. For children only wanted to go to school, children were in a public place, taking into account all the epidemiological rules, taking into account the distance, wearing a mask, and so on they simply wanted to point out that they wanted to come back to school. The kids wanted to go to school. The State of the Republic of Slovenia, which is almost unrecognizable because it is obviously a new country, has punished such children, such children have been punished by the State. What did you tell those kids? You told them that this was some normal step in taking responsibility for the transition to adulthood. This is true, as I said before, for my concepts the greatest shame in the history of independent Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, as a person of integrity, you are prepared to play this game and even support these matters. It is a shame that the children first knocked on your door and asked you to meet; you did not allow them to do so. And because they went to protest the market in Maribor, as I have already said, taking into account all the measures, only the messages they were carrying, apparently the government did not like them and they were punished for it. You haven't said a word in response or a word, so I ask you once again in public – You support the punishment of students because they have publicly warned that they want to go back to school? If that's the case, it's totally unacceptable. As far as children with special needs are concerned, I would not go into this in particular, since the Constitutional Court finally ruled. You said that for children with special needs, you made sure that they arrived early at school and so on. After all, the decision of the Constitutional Court forced you to do so, and I think it is a shame that in this very important area too, the last word must be said by the Constitutional Court. But as for your great praises and compliments to the teachers, to the principals, and here I agree with you, the teachers have indeed done a tremendous job without them, and without them the disaster would be even greater. Your Sunday, though, was then taught from a distance and then returned to school. Here is where the praise goes to the teachers, the principals, and also to the Institute of Education, which has helped and stood by the schools all the time. However, you had a lot of time during the summer, when you could actually, if you wanted, prepare a possible spatial school for a new situation, from physical delimitation to group sharing; you did nothing, but really nothing. But you have taken care of something else, but for example, you have arranged for prizes for schools – private, private higher education institutions, which are run by or even owned by a friend of the Prime Minister Janez Janša Mr. Jambrek. There you have made sure that the so-called intruder who actually allows this school, or all schools, came to PKP6, but this was the only one in this group that helped it, although it does not meet the conditions for extension of accreditation, without testing or reviewing these conditions, can be extended by one year. But this is an absolute suspicion of corruption. I have also reported this act to the Commission to prevent corruption, but there is no answer yet, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Court has retained this measure. Dear Mrs Simona Kustec, because you and Mr Jambrek and Mr Avble, are said to have met with the leadership of the New University, a few days before this decision was met at the Ministry, and even a record has come to the media that says that gentlemen have come to the Ministry to ask precisely to be extended accreditation, the matter is seriously highly suspicious and, I think, matured for what authorities in Slovenia are pursuing crime. But here you have listened and here you have taken action seriously. I expect you to respond specifically to certain things now. And once again, don't be mean to the students, understand them. Students, parents and the entire Slovenian public are angry with you, and because they had no choice but to have dialogue with them, they decided to go on the roads and protest, but protested in accordance with the NIJZ rules. Obviously, though, it is not a key problem to unite, but it is a key issue of what people wear or what banners they display and what ideas they communicate. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The Minister has now made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, let me say that I wanted to hear a few more debates and debaters from my point of view before calling, but I see that the story is going in the very wrong direction of one groundless and inquisitional accounting of manipulation, so that I would like to explain at this point, because of the further discussion of all certain things, with what is actually true; then some will decide what and how you want to see in your heads. First case, school closing explanations. The first thing I want to point out again very clearly is the following. We closed the schools. We had to lock them up because of this picture. Those pictures and you in front of her. And these two pictures point to the fact that we were and that we are still one of the most threatened or attacked countries today, both in Europe and in fact in the world. And our first, fundamental responsibility – regardless of where we actually belong with our work – as a country and also as a society is to do our best to protect the health of our people. In the case of coronavirus, this health can also mean life-saving for many. And when we faced these pictures here, graphs of the situation in the Slovenian space, infections in the school and kindergarten spaces on the children's side and on the employees' side, we could see that things were dramatic. All these graphs that you can look at show us that, when we were in the first place, in addition to the dramatic general situation of the increasing number of infections and the number of hospitalized in the whole country, even in the field of education and education, we had to face the fact that this number of infections is exceedingly, uncontrolledly higher both between children and especially among employees. And it was growing up among children, especially among the elderly, which is between students and students, among the employees was rising between the employees in kindergartens and primary schools; and it was rising, as you can see, both times. This second summit you can see is actually a summit that coincides with re-opening. And this summit that you see here, with purple color in the second part, is a summit that talks about a particularly high group in relation to all other trends, and this is a group of employees and a group of children with special needs. So the one that we need to take even more carefully in all respects and with a shaky hand to make a final decision on how to bring them back to safety because of their health, so that they can get physical from the environment immediately then they can also learn. On the very fact that we have set up a system, we have been able to establish a system of education that has not been disrupted in all this distance period. This was not a system, as it seems in most other countries across Europe, when children receive instructions from home when they are educated on Saturdays, Sundays, and then work on these instructions all week long without working with teachers. This is a system where they have practically since the third week, since spring, including now those students who are C-models, constant contact with their teachers or professors and educate, learn, do not do it themselves. And I think we need to be so honest when we continue to discuss each other on our own shore that we are aware of all this. And we are aware that we can rightly be proud of having such a system. In particular, the fact that a 2019 European Commission survey — so much so that research does not exist that data does not exist — when it did an international comparative study and a review of the competence of individual Member States for distance education, it found a great deal of dramatic and unfavourable data for Slovenia. I'll tell you something, it didn't grow out of my head like cabbages, but it's the research data of a respected international institution that deals with it. This study found that the current reforms of the education programme in relation to digital competences in primary and general secondary education in the school year 2018-2019 in the case of Slovenia assess that this system does not have a structured reform programme for this. Let's move on, to include digital competences specific to teachers, in the central regulations/commendations for initial teacher education or in teacher competence frameworks; primary and general secondary education on digital competences, the situation in Slovenia; they are included but optional for the development of initial teacher education programmes. There are no central rules, recommendations, no framework for teacher competences or digital competences. Then again – The use of digital technologies in national knowledge testing, primary and general secondary education, 2018–2019, Slovenia, is not the use of digital technologies in national knowledge testing. Your Honor, because of the crown, something very valuable has happened. Many early in the spring, in March, teachers could hardly turn the computer on, now sovereign, when necessary, they take the learning process to a distance. The country has unfortunately not allowed this approach, with emphasis, with particular attention to programme development, and they have made this move on their own. But what we can give them, they show you this information. To them and to school. Data on the number of information and communication equipment over a period of the last six years, I probably don't even have to read it because you see where the difference happened. And this difference took place in 2020. This difference was due to the crown’s occurrence, since we had to help in the moment, together with those who had to and obviously did not have adequate support and encouragement so far, so that we could reach this point. I'm talking about Arnes, I'm talking about the Education Institute, I'm talking about a lot of companies, a lot of those who helped us with different support, subsidies, so that we could get as much equipment for both students and teachers so that distance education could go on. I am also talking about companies that, where technically possible, immediately, literally patched up these so-called white foxes of Internet access overnight. I am talking about that this is still a priority for those parts where this is not yet provided; and that in those parts individual schools have then adapted adequately and have adapted distance education to these students in such a way that they have been educated. Everyone could have been educated, everyone. And they were educated in the way that they didn't go anywhere one day alone. How they were successfully educated in the spring work, you are told the results of the last school year's graduation, which were quite comparable, even in some subjects better than in previous years. I would like something similar to this to show up now at the level of objective knowledge testing in primary school students, in carrying out national knowledge testing. These are the facts. It is true that they have been educated in a different way, it is true that they have mastered the content for which experts under the direction of the Institute of Education have recognized and have also provided guidance, which are those that can be captured in the context of distance education; but the professional evaluation has been all the time to follow established curricula and school calendars. We have one week in primary schools, this is that week after the first-November holidays, which we extended, this is a week that we will safely replace as soon as the situation in terms of the risk of infection is a little more stable. Then we will finally sit together again and see how in the most optimal way, given the professional assessment of the situation, we can provide manca this week. If I go back a little further, to support information and communication technology, equipment and also to acquire the necessary competences and skills in this area. Here you have one table that shows you what we are after months in 2020, says these key parts, we have collected and whose resources we have purchased this. Here, of course, I only use the data we have, these are the resources of the European Union or the resources from the budget. You'll see that we shared a lot of them with the schools. At the same time, you have seen in those anti-Korona packages that we have also provided direct financial support for the adoption of this legislation for the purchase of the additional equipment that schools needed. And as you can see, last year there were an additional 3 000 519 desktop computers, almost 10,000 laptops, 2,000 tablet computers, total for 10 million almost 15,000 computer equipment. In addition, I must say that, through the European Union project, we have delivered other pieces of equipment to schools in the spring, totalling almost 10,000 pieces of equipment — from monitors, projectors, everything that was still needed. Some also wanted cameras so that distance education could be carried out. Then, from the COVID-19 project, we gave Arnes €1 million in spring for infrastructure, for e-services that support distance learning. In order to be able to refresh the MC Teams license, this was the first contract I signed with Microsoft on the first day of my term, so that we could continue to support the so-called single entry point now used by the majority of those in education and education in distance education. In September 2020, we provided additional 3.3m euros from integrated funds to ICT purchasing schools; 0.6m euros were provided to public universities, which are already receiving money from a bag of so-called common money and have received it further. What else have we done to not only talk about equipment, which – once again, I point out, because it seems very important to me to stress – we have also obtained many donors together. I'm not just talking about large companies, state-owned companies that have made this possible, I'm talking about donors – clean individuals who haven't even contacted the Ministry, who've called the mayors directly or at schools and asked whether you need what you need, what you need. I am talking about such an understanding, of such a relationship, of such cooperation, which, of course, is not recorded as much as it should for the sake of the gesture itself, of course, because of what they have done. In addition to the equipment, 21 different online seminars were prepared through Arnes — 2 thousand users and 55,000 users — and they were associated with the preparation of distance education. 11 online courses for experts with 75 repetitions, 14,000 professionals in VIZ attended. For teachers training was prepared by the Slovenian Institute for Education during summer holidays, which were not for our teachers and professors. This training was attended by 26 000 638 participants and would be even more so if we had the opportunity to carry out it alone, because there was simply no time for this. Not to mention that, at the time when the kindergartens were completely closed in the spring, we have also made this distance education possible for employees of educators, educators and assistants, assistants in order to gain additional knowledge at this time. We are now in the final phase of the recovery and development fund programming process, which will provide funds for the final digital transformation of the entire school space of EUR 295,7 million. In short, so much for why we're one of the better and why I don't think there's any need to make fun of it, but on the contrary, let's appreciate it and let's let all our knowledge spread as examples of good practice. [[…]] Believe me, part of digital education will remain part of the school space in the future; not only because of covid-19, not only because this now suits us because we are good; but because they have already worked in research before covid-19 and they have pointed out that these are the competences of the future. I understand that we still have to go back a little bit to the facts that some of you just want to see, some of you don't want to see. These graphs show, once again, that we are not the most dramatic of horrors. These are graphs that cover the entire period of the crown crisis. These are graphs that are incomparable in one story. Some of the countries you see here, when we say schools are closed, means that schools are closed and that then the educational process does not take place in them in a different or alternative way, or that they receive instruction once a week and do the story themselves at home. Like I said, we're different here. We just moved physical education from school to home, or from the new year even further. Even children in the first triad who did not have the conditions to be educated at home were allowed to go back to school and work there under the protection they would otherwise receive at home, and this was not feasible because parents were working for the country with crucial decisive work; they then returned and were educated in distance. Then the next thing, closed schools, open schools, what else would you like to say here? Where we have systems of partially closed or partially open schools, we have another experience that my colleagues from other Member States of the European Union are reporting to me. If you don't believe me, and I believe you're getting on a daily basis in the National Assembly of Depots, then you can read it from these depots as facts. Even where schools are open, this is particularly the case in France, children from day to day learn whether the next day will actually be a school study or not; very often they come and go practically after the first hour, because it is not safe. I don't think anyone wants this as an indication that this is an appropriate example of education and that schools are open at the same time. So much for that. Then another special emphasis is placed on closing and opening schools for children with special needs. You talk a lot about it, you expose it a lot, it's also right because it's the most vulnerable, the most fragile group of educational processes. What was the situation, and what was the situation, I showed you. This is the situation between employees, the purple line is the one that shows the number of infections. You can see that in the first wave of October it was not as horribly exposed as it is now in the second wave, right after we opened it after the new year. As among the employees, look at this story as among the students. And that is the fact that I have also sought with a shaking hand the most secure decision and opportunity to return. And believe me, once again, the concern that those involved — not only in education and education but in society as a whole — remain healthy in what they do is that fundamental concern and responsibility. She wouldn't make me sleep well if I was ahead of you. And the situation we've been in and in which we're still in is very fragile; at the same time, it's all up to us. If we're going to argue about whether we'd be vaccinated or not, whether we'd be tested or not, whether we'd be wearing masks or not, whether we'd be disinfecting our hands or not, then believe me, we won't get far. We proved this, it proved this first story of growth when we argued about it, professionally and non-professionally, I don't know how we're going to do anything else, whether we're going to wear masks or not, but this first story happened to us. This second story happens to us because of the virus as such. When we returned children with special needs, of course, we did so on the basis of the assessment of pediatricians and on the basis of the medical profession, not just the epidemiological profession. And this one warned us. She warned us about a lot of things. She warned us about the dangers of what happens in the case of infections with children who have exactly those medical diseases that are the most prevalent in this group. And she warned us that they certainly needed a priority return to school, but provided that we were able to ensure this from the point of view of protecting their health. And we were sitting with representatives of these institutions, believe me, very intensely. They too had to prepare themselves substantially in a different way, in this broader sense. And then the assessment — this assessment was given early in December — was to be able to do so safely in early January. Then, in a very interesting way, some good week after that happened in the Constitutional Court, which in fact gave the government a direction in the direction for which it had already committed itself, but it was fine. It's okay, you know. We're all here for the same purpose. At this point, I will only make one more response, and then, during the continuation, I will respond mainly to the substantive parts, including what Member Jelinčič has pointed out in particular. I think that one important response is needed to this question of the continuation of the kuriculum, the remodelling of the kuriculum, the curricula, what to do, what not. Then also during your discussions, I believe and hope that there will be more questions about this. Something that I just have to do right now at this point, because I can see that it's appearing like the yoke of a snake, and I would like to explain at this point, obviously, because in this case, I was also very miraculously excluded from the context. And now I will tell you what I understand about the responsibility of young adults and in the light of this event in Maribor. We have worked very well with the representatives of the student organisation, and we are still very well in the spring ahead. Together with them, we have been successful in working with the RIC and with the two state senior commissions, including on their initiative, when you say we do not hear them, prepare them or prepare them – because we are here only those who ultimately give some expectation by law, what and how – adjustments of the graduation for this school year. We did it with them. They were actively involved. What we've done is we've only been one mediator, one mediator among all those who need to sit down and talk. And I must say, I work extremely well with these representatives personally. I've been here the whole time. After another group came along to talk with us, of course, we wanted to respond to them. About a month ago, they sent us a request to meet with them to bring us their appeal after they wanted to return to school as soon as possible. We responded immediately to the deadline they had proposed, but because I was busy at the time, we said that the competent Secretary of State would come on my behalf. State secretaries, by the way, as we all know, are actually in the system of some kind of deputy minister. But the students didn't want it, and they said they wouldn't meet with the secretary of state. Then we took note of it and said they'd get a new date where they could meet with me. In the meantime, a petition took place, in the midst of some unusual protests, and there was also somehow no longer a direct desire to be able to meet and talk in a calm dialogue. And then, as a matter of fact, this protest followed. I was informed about him just before I went to a press conference where I was asked about it. However, I was informed that protests had taken place, and they showed me a picture of these protests. They showed me one picture. In this picture were three students, wearing a banner, being at a safety distance to each other and wearing a mask. And my response and my first thought was – look, another group of students who behaves responsibly, who understands and communicates their voice at the same time. It is true that I did not, when I explained that they were exemplary and that I support them and that I respect the way they operate and the responsibility they take in these difficult times, showed pictures, because I thought this was it. However, obviously after what happened, because I am listening again today, I find it difficult to think anything but that this is a reflection of the situation in which we are in this moment when, in fact, commendation for an example becomes an obvious useful tool for me to be exposed personally as an arrogant person. It wasn't, and believe me, it wasn't meant that way because I saw what the example was. Why were there, and in what way, the work of someone else was done, then the censuses were made there, and I don't know that, and it's not my responsibility either. But according to that picture, I think we can all be very proud of these students and certainly not get any punishment because the reasons for it — according to that picture — are not. But once again I assure you, as I have already done a million times and will be to the end, everything, but we are really doing everything so that all the students, all the students, the kindergarten children, can now return safely in all these broad situations that I have just presented to you, physically back to the areas of education and education, as well as the employees. Let us not forget, we have one of the oldest employment structures in the field of education and education throughout Europe. These are people who are also particularly exposed from the point of view of the crown of infection, and we need to be particularly careful when we start bringing them back to active life and relationships. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposer of mags asked for the floor. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, what you've just said about the students in the end, I don't know how to respond. While the whole of Slovenia has been talking about this for a month and in some way condemning the government's behaviour because it has publicly supported the punishment of the students, and condemning your statement that it is in some way that the students have been punished, and that this is some way into adulthood, you are now calmly, deadly saying that you never meant it and said it. We find that hard to believe, but even if you missed it today, let me say you're not guilty because the government is a collective body. And if the President of the Government and everyone else spits on Twitter and insults and attacks the students and tells them how right it is that the students are punished only because they have expressed themselves in accordance with all the epidemiological rules of disagreement that they can't go to school and disagree that you didn't want to accept them, I really don't know. For moments you feel like you're changing your mind from minute to minute and you don't know exactly what you're talking about. Before that, you showed some graphs that showed a very bad, catastrophic picture of an epidemic in Slovenia. I don't know what you mean by that. This is what we know, and the opposition has been warning us all along that the government has been totally down on the line to deal with the epidemic. And that's what the data you've projected before showed. You're on the whole line. And why did you fold? Because you do not want to listen to the profession, and this applies in general as well as to the field of education. You've always been an alternative to just another option, it's called shutting down schools or opening schools, but there's a lot more. It just needs to take time and think about it professionally; you didn't listen to the profession, not epidemiological or teaching. And that's a fact. The second fact is that we can all see together that after the school opening, the indicators went down, not up. Obviously, school is not the main source of the epidemic, because if that were the case, the epidemic would have jumped now, but it's going down, or it's staggering a little over the last few days. And if it was possible to look before the holidays in December for all other industries, for trade, for various service activities, how to open them, but for schools, there is only one possible answer. That children, young people and schoolchildren did not have a lawyer in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and were the only ones fully questioned and went on to the easiest and surest option – whether to close or open everything. Or that you will not correct me, not all shut down, because in the distance the teaching has taken place and also thank God that it is, better than nothing, and here again drops down to all teachers who have been able to so quickly redirect and carry out a quality lesson in the distance. I have a first-grader, too, and it was very quality, but it's not the same, but you know, it's not the same. And once again, there are conditions in our home for such instruction, where there may be no conditions. Schools should be for all, for all citizens and citizens, regardless of the status the family derives from and the material conditions it has. And that's why this public school of ours is important. That observation that I don't know how many teachers the computer couldn't even turn on, but it seems to me that it shows your attitude towards teaching, which is really insulting. And I'm sure most teachers can turn on the computer, and there's more to it than that. And not only am I sure, they proved this, they proved now in these months when they actually saved Slovenian education because of your ignorance and your misdeed and listening to the instructions and dictatorships of the Prime Minister. Yet another thing you did not answer: What was going on with the invitations to college? Are you coordinated in the coalition, what was actually going on? The Secretary of State was in charge of holding the call. And as we understood at the time, the call was held because it was not coordinated within the government in a timely manner. Who's lying now? Mrs Škrnjar said earlier on behalf of the SDS that there was nothing wrong with the invitation to tender. You kept saying that the call was not coordinated, or the President of the Government, and that this was why he was stopped. And it reached into the autonomy of the Slovenian higher education world. That's why the Secretary of State, Dr. Gasparič, was suspended. And you, Madam Minister, are his first superior. Who suspended him, you or the Prime Minister? I ask you kindly to clarify these matters; if necessary, we can also order a break because you are obviously in disharmonization and speak differently. What has happened in the invitation to tender or in the yearly invitation to higher education institutions? And why did the Secretary of State in charge of this area have to leave? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. First he gets the word Lidija Divac Mirnik, which will be discussed by Jani Prednik. Comrade Divac Mirnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary, both Secretary of State! Since we've been talking about these 20 points of interpolation since 9 a.m., I'm not going to repeat them. And I will not do the spectacle as you did, Madam Minister, you have previously accused the opposition of making a spectacle out of all this; but I will try to prove with arguments that all these 20 points of interpolation hold. By your performance, however, you did exactly what you read to us — a spectacle and playing with your emotions. So, by the way. What has been said in the LMŠ since the outbreak, since March last year, since it also warns the profession? This is what the birds are sniveling in this loving country of ours, and it is that the educational institutions must close the last and open the first. Pika. In front of malls, in front of churches, and before what else this government has opened and closed schools. What is also evidence that we have been defending this in the LMŠ all the time? This evidence is more than 40 questions, initiatives, requests that I personally and my colleague Kovačič have addressed to you at this time. We've sent you over 40 letters. Do you know what the result is? Of course we haven't been heard. Then, together with the opposition, we convened several meetings. I'm not going to list them for you. I think that the date was 6 or 7, where we were always over-voted, but we called them because we called, proposed, asked them that it might be possible to act differently in your field, but we were, of course, hit by a coalition machine. Not to mention all the amendments we have written in all eight PKP bills and have been successful – nothing, unfortunately. This is proof that we have been very professional and that we have also been very active in this area, unlike you. In LMŠ, we have been actively committed to establishing safe conditions as soon as possible for all schoolchildren, students and students to return to school in order to make a graduation with pre-defined rules, because you know how it was last year, the last minute you made a decision to give support to teachers, teachers, students and parents all the time in order to ensure adequate protection for those children who need it. In the LMŠ, we also maintain the position that the Minister, for the first time, is responsible for the quality implementation of the reduced learning process, for the second time that the Minister should provide clear - clear - guidance and clear - guidance on the implementation of the educational process, for the third time in order to take decisions, therefore to take decisions, and also to take responsibility for all stakeholders in the learning process, and for the fourth time that he has to provide unequivocal answers to all stakeholders in a timely manner. Unfortunately, you haven't done all of this. Why, you know it yourself. What did you do in the middle of that time when you were supposed to do everything I listed earlier? You have proposed to us questionable amendments to the sectoral laws. For the first time, recklessly and harmfully blocking the publication of invitations to enroll in universities and, as we know, the consequent farewell of the Secretary of State and the Director of Directorate. Why? Because at least one of them told the truth. Secondly, what you did, by changing the conditions for getting Zois' scholarships, I asked you at least three times about it and suggested some solutions. Of course it's the modus operandi of this government. Voluntary and permanent amendment of sectoral legislation to the worse. Worse, I'm afraid. Thirdly, what you have done at this time, many countries have made it possible to conduct school competitions smoothly, but unfortunately you have not been able to allow five upper-middle students to participate in one competition. And this decision you've made is completely incomprehensible to me. I don't know what was going on, but for someone to decide that, they must have some arguments that I absolutely don't see. And who were the victims? Of course, gifted students, those who may someday sit here and lead this country. Why? Because of the complete but truly incomprehensible decisions you have made. Fourthly, what you did at that time, in the PKP6 the government wanted to level the general and professional prom in intervention legislation and thus bring discrimination between students. After all the pressure from the public and, of course, the opposition we immediately jumped into the luft, then you withdrew it. If there was no such reaction, we would now have this in intervention legislation, which has a lot in common with covid-19. Of course, it is necessary to ask where some of them are supposed to be here and what kind of expertise, since this should be the first. I'm not sure this has anything to do with morality. Five, what did you do at that time? You have also been able to confirm in the PKP6 the change in the conditions for accreditation of higher education institutions, without a professional basis. No professional basis. Of course, it was a favor not to say, but, if I say so, Jambrek's colleges to someone of a friendly kind; that's what it was all about. And what happened now? The Constitutional Court has temporarily held back what we have been saying in the opposition over and over this law, and what we have tabled with the amendments in the opposition has, as usual, absolutely overtaken us by a coalition roller. What else did you do at that time? Six, you threw all the students out of college homes, literally, from one day to the next, literally, you did. Except for some 5% of those who helped in hospitals, you made some exceptions. And you know what else is the biggest paradox? That they're still not in college homes. Students are still at home, and student homes are still closed for most students, while student homes are open while malls are open while churches are open. Well, understand who can, that's expertise. That I don't even have to explain. And why student homes are still closed today, I'd really like to hear that from you today because I'm a little emotionally attached to them because of my previous job. What are the severe and difficult consequences of the further closure of schools or educational institutions, which are also reported to you at one of these 20 points? Schools have actually been closed since 19. 10th, that was your catastrophic political decision. If it wasn't yours, it's even worse because you're responsible for this area. So for more than 4 months, the children were home, and this is the longest in Europe, as colleagues of the applicants have said several times today. This, of course, causes irreparable damage to the student, parents, families, and society. Too bad, because — you will not believe — some students are just today since 19. Ten. 2020 sits for the first time in the school bench. First time. Because in this model C, you have given this opportunity to directors who, of course, have organised themselves as they have, there is nothing to blame because they have done everything they can. The problem is that it was a political decision and a non-professional decision at the time, because experts from that consultative group explained something else to you. During the night, you actually closed the schools, although you would have prepared several different models during that summer, you were the only one who jumped out of model B and you forgot those other models or whatever. Politically, you decided that all children would stay at home. I don't know why you didn't let kids continue to go to school after this model C. And I'm not even opening up the theme of children with special needs. That was your decision back then. Long-range education has proven devastating consequences for learning success, psychophysical health and the social situation of families in general, in younger children, who, of course, urgently need the help of parents, who may find it much more difficult to offer. That I don't even explain the premonition my parents have. Of course, young people experience a lack of motivation, as teachers report. I also noticed right after my new year with my sons that motivation went somewhere far away, and to understand each other, both of them were excellent students, because that's pretty normal. Therefore, it would make sense for us to think about what is happening to children at this time of long - distance schooling. Children have been suing that, of course, they have significantly reduced their interest in work, that they are tired, and that the absence of social contacts has touched them very much. The long-term closure of schools will also have mental health consequences for at least 20% of children who will show up for years; and if they are not adequately treated, they will continue in adult life, which means that society will face people who have more mental problems, including more unemployed ones, and we will have more dependence in the country, problems in partnership, and even more opportunities to develop more severe psychopathology. That's not my story, that's what they told me at the Children's and Adolescents Advisory Center, where they deal with children like that, where they work with them every day. And I have to admit, I believe them a lot more than you do. Children are also becoming increasingly aggressive in their relationships, complaining of insomnia, stress, boredom, loneliness, anger, and also fear. Some students also report financial distress and fear how they will be able to complete their studies. And these are the same students who can't still stay in college homes. It is probably very difficult to assess the situation in the field of knowledge as well as in the area of social and emotional deficits. The easiest thing to do is actually evaluate the area of knowledge. Teachers identify, because you know, one way or another, that children have worked, there is no question at all, teachers have tried their best, there is no question at all; and the question is, what is the extraction of this knowledge; and this will need to be discussed in the near future. The school is also a place where students also work on themselves, where they have to adapt to the group, where they solve conflicts, where they resolve patient coexistence in the group and in the class. And of course it was not, all this is impossible to replace, as it is impossible to replace all that has happened in the field of sport, and my colleagues will say more about it, so I will not go into this area. I still claim what I argued in one of the debates that the biggest victims of covida-19 are children and adolescents, definitely. They are the greatest victims, of course, besides those who have died, there are over 4,000. For a while, we had one bus dead every day, and that's the fault of this government, which belongs to you. What the consequences of long - distance education will be, I will list just a few of them, because of course they are huge and we will talk about them all day long. There's still too little ICT equipment and tools. Still – at least according to the data we have in the LMŠ – at least 3,000 students do not have this access, but thank God you let these students into school. We know that we have white foxes in Slovenia, we know that we also have children who didn't even have Internet. We know that some of the kids were learning over the phones and so on. We know that some schools have worked hard, and the principals and teachers have worked hard to enable these even, equal conditions for children, although of course this has not always been possible. Studies suggest that the child’s mobility is at least 13%. We had problems with obesity before, and after this absolutely long closure of schools in this area we will have even greater problems in Slovenia. A lot of the students I've been talking to are also suing that they've been sitting in front of computers all day. As it is said, today, after five months, some went to school for the first time. From 7 to 3 p.m., they have zoos, and then they go to study. And now that they're back, they've got a set of tests of all the acquired or unconquered knowledge five months ago. I'm afraid of what will happen in the traditional May when we know what kind of tribulation students are in, that I'm not even talking about graduates. If I wasn't too long, maybe I'd just say this for the end. But it is the children, Your Honor, the Minister. Instead of defending education, science and sport from non-professional interventions, you chose to like and nod the President of the Government against harmful political influences and measures, from public defamation and neglect of teachers. That's too bad. That's too bad. You chose not to be allowed to speak to you in public. How can a regular professor at the university afford that?Oh, my God! How can a regular professor at the university afford this, it is incomprehensible to me, and I cannot understand this, for dignity and expertise are yours. I am, but I really want to believe that you're like a woman, like a person completely okay. I also really want to believe that you were trying, but I have a feeling that you are living in some parallel universe that the rest of us don't understand, because in your work, which you had to do as a politician, you put it all over the line. We're not all for all the jobs, God help us. Therefore I respectfully ask you to maintain, but really maintain at least a little of your dignity, and withdraw for the good of you and especially for the good of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word, and Mojca Žnidarič will discuss it. Comrade Predator, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u42	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister with the entire team, colleagues and colleagues! You said, Your Honor, that this would be a spectacle today, an Inquisition, a reckoning. None of this is going to happen. At least as far as I'm concerned, never in Parliament with political rivals, I don't account for my opponents in any way. That we have interpellation is essentially one great sadness, and not a spectacle, and one great torture for you, us, and especially for citizens and citizens. The fact is that the resource you run is already extremely demanding in normal situations. In the last year’s situation, however, this area was even more demanding. And don't take this interpolation today as an account with you, but let's take this as some balance sheet of your work in the last year. Dear Minister, I know you will survive this interpretation. It's only logical that you will. The coalition of parties will support you, which means that even the entire burden of all mistakes of the past year will also be borne by Members on their shoulders, not just you, which is, after all, right. And all that I'm going to say today, and I'm probably going to repeat myself, and all that my colleagues are going to say, take this as a well-meaning criticism that we simply fix certain things so that they don't happen again in the future. The fact is that the official apparatus has also been very self-sacrificing, as were the teachers and parents; and with their help, the consequences of this epidemic, as far as the school system and children are concerned, will, of course, be smaller. One offense I have not only to you, but to the whole government, because it is not only up to you who run the school sector, it is up to the whole government, in general, to the government led by Mr Janša and led somewhat differently by some other governments. I'm aware that when the first wave came, no one was ready for it. Probably also a government in which the Social Democrats would be involved and led by the LMSH party would not be prepared to do so. And I don't blame you for the first wave mistakes, but I resent the mistakes then in the second wave. The country should learn something from that first wave and come into the second wave that you, in fact, predicted yourself, a little more prepared. And it seems to me and I feel that the process has not been led, that it has been done in the right way and in fact something in mind; and this has also caused some problems. It has been repeatedly mentioned that it is unacceptable for students to be punished. I'm not here to defend the students and their work. Only your response was somewhat wrong or a few medals. It felt like these students just wanted to give a message that they were going to school, criminals. This is my insult to you, for they should not be treated this way. As far as kindergartens are concerned, it is not my idea, but those who work in kindergartens are also addressing us, as you probably are, and you're probably having a dialogue with them. And they all claimed that there were no guidelines, there were no indications that there were great differences between kindergartens after Slovenia, one of them had urgent protection very strictly, and the other did not. In short, it was a mess. As far as higher education is concerned, we have no strategic documents, no national programme for higher education, no law on research activities, no strategy. Correct me if I'm wrong, but here too is the feeling that the ministry with you at the head is a little lost. But I'd like to make two points. I think there's already been one today, and there hasn't been one. I am an MEP from Koroška myself, and as a member of Koroška, I can see that the whole government, not just your ministry, have taken measures that have increased the differences between children. Some children received computers only last September, while this epidemic has lasted since March. And in Koroška we also encounter the appearance of white or gray foxes. This is certainly not a criticism of the current government, but it is a criticism of all governments so far that they have failed to eliminate gray or white foxes. For those of you who don't know, these are areas where there's no internet. And then the epidemic showed that children living in the area of white foxes don't have a chance of schooling from home. And here I would expect you to play a more active role as Minister in order to ensure this immediately, because even after the assurance of teachers and administrators, schools helped each other, borrowed USB keys and so on. And again, the feeling is that the school country, the principals, simply left the teachers behind. In recent months it has also been my initiative and colleague Lenart to introduce intervention solutions to these white foxes into any PKP. I know this isn't going to work tomorrow, but if you were able to intervene in the government to solve things that had nothing to do with the epidemic, then you could also solve the white or gray fox. And I hope, as I said at the outset, that you will take this as a well-intentioned criticism or advice that the government will address this problem and settle these white foxes immediately. Minister, you yourself have said that distance learning is unlikely to end from today to tomorrow and that some form of distance learning will take place in the future. This is said to be an immediate solution for white foxes, for people and children live in these areas and will not have the same opportunities. A matter that has not yet been exposed today is sport. And this is probably where the government laid down the entire line. Sport is completely neglected, if we are talking about individual or group sports. We all know that the covida-19 crisis has brought about the withdrawal of sports-funded sponsors, even because of their own financial problems. The other problem is that the clubs are out of viewers. There are a lot of clubs that essentially cover their liquidity every week from the cards paid by the viewers at their games. It's been gone for a year. And here I hope that in future PKPs or any other measure you will address both amateur clubs and professional clubs. Professionals face huge financial problems, or we watch basketball, hockey, football, any club. And here we should, Madam Secretary, step in front of these clubs. I know some reservations, but basically the executive branch of power is to find solutions. And I put it on your heart to find solutions for these clubs as well. And that I won't be too long, indeed, Minister, take all of this for granted. I am aware that even if we had taken into account in the last year what segment of the opposition, when we pointed out certain matters, some problem would have been solved more. And I repeat this over and over again, not all the proposals of the Social Democrats or the other opposition as an attack by the opposition on the government. Take a suggestion as well as a well-intentioned and easy-to-do, and you will see that some matter will be resolved and no more such problems. To the end, Madam Secretary, in your opening address, you said, but I don't know if I've heard wrong that 145 thousand teachers have been over covid-19. This number somehow does not go along with that in the country altogether there are about 190,000 those who have ever covid-19 got over; and it is a somewhat high figure that 145 000 only teachers who have been over covid-19. Once again, Minister, I am aware that you will survive the interpretation. I'm not gonna ask you to step down or anyhow, it's your decision, your party's decision, your entire coalition. And as I said at the outset, once you have survived the interpretation, the entire right-hand side of Parliament and governments will take responsibility for past steps and, of course, for the steps you will take in the future. But I hope, indeed, that the steps you will take in the coming months will be good, successful; for regardless of whether I as an opposition Member observe this, I wish the system would be good, for after all it is only a system that raises children, students. Better measures than you'll take will be better for our children. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, especially the Secretary of State and Secretary of State! In the field of education and education in 2020, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport was mainly committed to addressing the challenges associated with covido-19, while the Minister and staff of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport also successfully and in a timely manner carried out all the ongoing tasks that enable the educational and educational process to be carried out in a smooth manner, as well as carrying out a number of unrealised obligations from the past. I will also present at least three below. The circumstances in which we found ourselves in March 2020 and where schools closed their doors and set up long-distance education were a major challenge for all, both for schoolchildren, pupils, students, teachers, teachers, teachers, school management and, of course, for parents. In the bad two weeks, as we have heard, distance education has been established without adequate prior experience by operating more than 90% of the total school space. After initial problems with system overload and poor internet connections, the educational process, despite the changed learning environment, continued and well-functioning in all schools. Throughout long-range education, we have probably all realized that such a form of education cannot completely replace teaching in school, but this was the only possible form in the face of a poor epidemiological situation if we wanted to protect children's health and, above all, ensure the fundamental right to protect the lives of all citizens and citizens. We are also all aware that the quality of implementation of distance learning depends on a number of factors, but it has been in a given situation, I stress that this is certainly the most optimal solution to the implementation and organisation of the educational process. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport acquired in the spring of 2020 to improve the accessibility of learning for students and teachers – according to last spring – 9 000 500 pieces of equipment, i.e. personal computers, monitors, tablets, laptops; and in September 2020 an additional 4 000 200 pieces. We were all parents from elementary schools, so our children’s schools were invited to communicate if they needed equipment. And in the autumn of 2020, as the Minister has already said, they have provided an additional 3.3 million for the purchase of equipment that schools are now carrying out alone. The Ministry then also obtained 760 mobile modems via Arnes with unlimited data transmission. Also at the beginning of the epidemic, already in the spring of 2020, mobile operators were invited to participate, as we have heard, by Telekom donated over 300 and A1 about 500 mobile modems with unlimited data. All schools in Slovenia are provided with access to important e-services and videoconferencing systems, and an additional million were provided for the Arnes Public Institute, which initially had problems, i.e. to improve infrastructure and e-services. Schools also provided distance education with advice for students who needed it. In addition to teachers and counsellors at schools who provided support for students in social and emotional distress, a collection of measures and resources for individuals, children, adolescents and also adults and organisations published on the NIPO website was prepared at national level. As we were able to hear from experts, even here in the National Assembly, and we ourselves found that many children meant a positive approach for parents and teachers. In this regard, I must and I want to commend the teachers, the teachers, the principals, the principals, because those I know and with whom I have had the opportunity to cooperate have really worked very hard with our children. The opposition to the Minister of State disputed cooperation or non-cooperation, but since Wednesday, March 2020, 87 meetings and consultations were held with various stakeholders, including the Ministry of Health, the NIJZ, the Education Institute, representatives of the principal associations; some were attended by representatives of parents, while the students were also repeatedly addressed via video links, but unfortunately it was not possible at the time. The minister approved a free meal with the district for socially disadvantaged children. In cooperation with the congregations and schools, this was carried out immediately in early November, when it turned out that schools would unfortunately not be able to open because hospitalizations at that time exceeded a thousand patients for the first time, which was also a very important factor in all decisions. And five. On 1 this year, when children with special needs returned to school on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court, only 80% returned; 20% of their parents did not send them back to school for their safety and health. In January, when we hoped to reopen schools, hospitalisations again increased to more than a thousand 200 patients. And when you compare certain results, comparisons between countries, it is certainly necessary to compare our health system and health capacity. In interpolation you also have problems with consent to entry places. At its letter meeting on 5 February 2021, the Government agreed to all the proposed entry points and further increased them by 50 in medicine and 50 in computer and computer science programmes. All processes related to the registration procedures, including the implementation of the information days, shall run smoothly and on all timetables fixed as each year. And, as I had predicted at the outset, the Minister has also arranged at the time of the epidemic matters that should have been settled by its predecessors, but they are not; and they have not ministered in abnormal situations, unpredictable, such as she has now ministered. I'm just going to list a few of these achievements. In December 2020, the Act on the Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education was adopted. So far, there has been no law that regulates this area comprehensively and in one place, which has been pointed out by educational institutions, social work centres, courts, and others. Also, in early December 2020, the Minister adopted an important rule on adult education, which should have been adopted by the previous Minister, and was not. What this rule means for people's universities, we can read on the Facebook profile of the Union of Human Universities of 4 December 2020. Listen, I'll read it to you. The Union of Human Universities of Slovenia wrote: »Friday, 4. 12. 2020, we will remember human universities forever; in our more than 60-year history. The Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 180/20 published the Rules on Standards and Norms for the Financing and Implementation of the Public Service in the Field of Adult Education, which provides for the legal basis for the implementation of public service activities in the field of adult education after long years of effort and efforts by all involved. 1. 2021. This is a great recognition of our work so far, and this only strengthens our mission. Adult education for the first time in the history of our country is becoming recognized and recognized as an essential and equivalent part of the Slovenian educational system. We are extremely happy about this in the Union of Human Universities of Slovenia. We thank from the heart all those who have contributed to the public service, Minister Simoni Kustec, all employees at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Andragog Centre of Slovenia, the human universities and all those who have tried to do so” that I will not list all of them. So I think you can figure out what this rule means to human universities, and so far no one has wanted to accept it. And as a third, I'd like to point out this. Finally, after years of unsuccessful efforts, additional programmes were approved for some schools, as they were reviewed by the Ministry with Minister Simono Kustec in charge according to actual arguments and needs. This was also the case with our Ormož Gymnasium, which, after a long 12 years of effort and all the necessary consensus and arguments finally received the approval of a highly needed and highly sought programme, the professional profile of health care techniques. We were not the only ones; in Prlekia we gained another program – a media technique, in Gorenjska three. Finally, someone came to realize that all children could not go to miles away from the dormitory, so that they could not allow all their parents to do so, that children could not get up at four or five o’clock in the morning and drive all day long, so that they could walk several miles away. And finally someone who listens to and understands that this medical personnel and others are very much sought after. He could still list what Minister Simona Kustec did in the good year of the ministry, but I'll be done with it for now. Let me put it this way. I also have two schooling children and two school-bound nieces, and all four of them received long-distance education very understanding and positive, and they still like to list what was better at the time than today. I will respond to another question from the proposaler, who has previously highlighted it. What does distance learning mean for children, especially for children of the first triad? I would like to point out that all parents of children up to and including the fifth grade could be at home, so one of the parents could be at home with the child and receive an 80 per cent salary. We have raised this in the PKP Packages because, according to the labour law, 50% of the remuneration is foreseen for these emergency situations. I think the first-class substance is basically what every parent does. However, these communications matters have been largely taken care of. True, these white and gray foxes may not have made the Internet available everywhere, but these students were then individually sent home. When we also had one session this morning and the Legal and Legislative Service agreed to this and warned that there were several ways of education, but I remembered one other thing that really ran away from me, and I had quite some experience with it. Who wonders how home education is carried out, who wonders about these children, who are all eight or nine years of schooling at home, what their parents have, and how these children are socialized, if we are now wondering about these four or five months. At the Employment Institute, where I used to work, I have also said this a hundred times, I have met a child who has graduated from primary school and had no hope of even going on public transport. At the time, he also provided a social work centre and other services, but where is the socialisation of these children and where are the criteria? I just happened to remember that today, so I'm asking the Minister to look into these things and open them up. These few months, however, I do not think that it will have any worse consequences and that we will be able to take away from all of this what children and teachers, after all, have acquired at this time of further education. Of course, we all want this situation to calm down with covid-19 and that our children will be able to attend schools as normal as possible. I think that in every situation we can also find positive benefits, and the same is true in this situation, so interpolation, of course, will not be supported in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The proposer of mags asked for the floor. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Very briefly. In a way, I wanted to replicate it to my colleague Mojca because she was directly referring to my debate, as far as distance learning was concerned. First in terms of how – because this has been summed up and the teaching is carried out remotely and this is in some way a substitute for a normal learning live. I agree, Mojca, that this must be better than not teaching at all. This is also why there may be different interpretations, when the Minister says that we have been given the longest time in Europe closed schools because of the distance learning. It's done at least remotely, and it's certainly better than it wouldn't, but we can't compare it to a real live lesson. As I said earlier, I would not want to talk more about this now, but in a way it encouraged me to debate this conclusion, because one of the parents had the opportunity to be home for some exceptional reasons, or as it is called, and they were entitled to 80 % of the remuneration. This is true, but my implementation went in the direction that there are also children who have impossible teaching conditions at home, that there are also children whose parents cannot manage computers, are children who do not have the space to teach through the screen, and are children, which is the worst, who probably have such an irregular situation at home, that simply because of this distance learning cannot take place. One more thing about this 80% refund. For someone receiving a minimum wage or something above it, 20% is less than a very large difference. Therefore, we have constantly warned the Social Democrats that the key measure to be implemented in order to prevent the epidemic would be to arrange a hospital or compensation in the sense that all those who do not have to go to work for such or other reasons would either work remotely or take advantage of these other options for temporary work in order to provide them with 100 % compensation. Many people went to work or go to work today because they simply can’t afford it, they don’t survive if they were deprived of 20% of their salary plus lunch, transportation and so on. I think these are the key measures that the government should use to counter the epidemic. These things were not there, and therefore the results are as bad as the Minister had previously pointed out; and they are almost really the worst in the world. Although it has improved a little lately, at the peak of the second wave of the epidemic, we were among the worst among the number of deaths, the number of infected and the number of hospitalized and so on. That wasn't enough work. All these authoritarian measures — from the curfew to the threat of President Kacin’s Government, the chief speaker, and so on — are, in my opinion, completely ineffective or even counterproductive. And the same goes for such a long period of closed schooling. And before that, the minister had been operating on some data on how many teachers had been infected, but she did not show any other evidence that even before the school was closed, they had analysed how many children had actually been infected. The proportion of children is minimal, minimal, and did not change at the time when schools were still open and when they closed. And perhaps today, if we look at it, there is no significant greater proportion of children who are positive or infected than before the schools were reopened. These things really need to be looked at in a little more comprehensively, and above all focus on those measures that are really crucial for the epidemic to be limited in some way. And, once again, to talk about that because children had the opportunity to have one of the parents at home with an 80 per cent salary, if they themselves didn't know how to teach remotely, I don't think that's the true argument. Once again, I say that if the profession were to be heard a little more, schools could be completely closed in Slovenia and there would be much less anger and anger among students, students, parents and all citizens. And these today's answers to the minister are very flat and general. I believe that at the end of the day, at the end of the day, he will still be able to take responsibility for his actions. But if not, I think it would be a time for Members and Members to overlook and see that this is no longer the case and that Slovenia deserves a better minister for such an important area as education, sport and science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica has a Mojca Znidaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. If Mr Koprivc had listened to me correctly, I said that we all agree that distance education cannot fully replace education in schools. With regard to these 80%, I would also like to correct it because the limit was also one minimum wage. Whoever has a minimum wage, as you said would then get even less, it was also written in legislation that no one can get less than one minimum wage. With regard to children with poor conditions at home – I agree that there are also such children, but I do not agree that in those 4.5 hours of school, then everything will be resolved. Perhaps some of the children have found themselves in this situation that needs help, and they certainly need it. The meal, as I said, was provided for you. The delivery was also provided if necessary. About closing schools, whether it's been too long or not, now we're not the experts on it. But if you remember, schools closed down one week before fall vacations. Then there were autumn holidays and the government extended the holidays another week after autumn, which means that they were three weeks of this lockdown. At that time, it was actually expected that the virus would get angry within the three weeks, but unfortunately it did not. At the beginning of November, as I said before, they actually jumped these hospitalisations for the first time over a thousand, so there was no possibility, in fact there was no possibility of opening up earlier. You know, other countries had closed schools longer than we did. These are the arguments where I understand the Minister and the government that it was not so easy to make decisions that all children go to school. Students also go to these smaller groups to be divided into halves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u49	Thank you very much. First he gets the word of Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec and then the mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. I think we need to make a very clear distinction here between what was recommended by the profession and what was decided by the government. I've said this before, and I'll do it again. The profession is never at the time when Slovenia, when the Ministry closed schools too early and did not open them for a long time, was in a position similar to that of the World Health Organization and the large group of epidemiologists and so on. Even the government advisory group recommended that schools be opened as soon as possible in early December. Not to mention that we closed them too early, which the Minister herself admitted in January this year. Someone can understand if his actions are consistent. But in the case of a minister, when, say, in one month, he changes his mind about the students' statement, he's still kind of dragging himself out of that opening and closing. She said that the medical condition or epidemic condition was such that they could not leave open schools or that they had to be closed. But once again, if this was health care, why didn't they take into account epidemiologists and the medical profession that said there was no reservation to keep the schools going. And this lack of consistency casts doubt on all the subsequent decisions of the Ministry on this issue, and of course also doubts whether this government really asks or takes account of epidemiologists. If the decisions were guided by an epidemiological picture, then the Minister should not be silent when certain activities were largely opened. Once again, at the end of December – shopping malls, similar things, when children were able to shop, ski, something else; they could not learn in school dishes. So much for this expertise. As for the impact, once again, distance learning, many studies, including global, Finnish, Japanese, German and so on, have some influences. These influences can't possibly be positive if you look at them that way. What the Minister said before was that this was an opportunity, something that people have learned something new, I think is something that is completely in conflict with the situations that people who had school-bound children received every day. And here the shortest was those few thousand children who did not have access to information and communication technology at the time; in the second, those who come from socially weaker environments. It is very clear from pre-Korona studies that children from poorer families who have less educated parents and so on have a deficit in progress in learning, because it is a structural deficit in which social inequality prevails. The school acts as some kind of equalizer for these differences, the school is the one who offers all children at least about the same starting point for education, progress in the school process and thus opens the door to some social mobility, says out of poverty in some way for a better life. And no one can say in this room today that distance education is as good as schooling in schools, including food, as far as movement is concerned. In the opposition, a number of directors also pointed out the need to provide a warm meal. Then, in the opposition, we prepared an initiative, even a proposal for a law that could solve this; only then did the ministry react and send that famous circular that allowed them to have at least one hot meal a day. But here you need to understand that some kids are at breakfast in the morning, having lunch, lunch, and lunch this afternoon. And at the time of this coronation these things were not provided. But in which direction the children’s mobility has become too high because they are not in school, it is also very clear. The deterioration is significant. I think that in one month the indexes have deteriorated by 13% in that first period, and this is, of course, worse because they do not have access to some exercise, because out-of-school activities have not been in operation either. It's affecting everything. It's good that long-distance education has been, but longer than duration, worse for children, worse for families. And I think we need to be aware of this in these discussions today. It is good that it has been, but has negative effects, and these effects will also have to be addressed at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u52	Thank you very much again. Very briefly, my colleague Mojci would like only the part where you said that these 4 to 5 hours of school to children from difficult social conditions or to children who, according to their household, have a bad situation at home in the family does not help. I absolutely can't agree with that. The fact that a child can go to school every day, that he is in some normal environment, that he socializes, that he hangs out and so on, I think this will make a very big difference to the child. It is true, however, that in many other areas such children as these come from, help and act. And here also NGOs have certainly played a very big role and someone else. As for the closing time of the school, or as you said, it was meant that schools should have been opened by the end of November. Yes, it was meant to be, the profession called for it, including the epidemiological profession. We have even received information from the minutes of the meetings of the government group that the group has actually proposed that schools be opened and that the Minister has not heard or followed this for reasons unknown to us. These are key mistakes, these are mistakes. As a result, the results are the same as they were, because politics simply did not want to follow the profession. But if anyone says anything against decisions, especially the President of the Government, there is an immediate fire in the roof or, in particular, these people are beheaded by functions. This is the modus operandi of Janša's government, and this is why we are so concerned in the opposition. Because things are really not going in the right direction because they are being done by another republic and because this epidemic is being used to completely establish power at all possible levels, at all structures, in all state subsystems. On behalf of the epidemic, you overly finance private higher education institutions, limit media freedom on behalf of the epidemic, punish students who, with banners at a safe distance, without jeopardizing anyone in terms of health, warn that they would like to go back to school. I'm sorry. Things are really critical. On behalf of the epidemic, you are financially head of NGOs. And speaking of which, today's interviewing Minister Simona Kustec was the one who proposed to the government that this NGO Fund, which was established under her previous government, should be abolished under the government led by her party. I really don't know, Mr. Secretary and honourable Members and Members of Parliament, especially SMC and Desus, how can you go to sleep peacefully, how can you not feel guilty about agreeing on a day-to-day basis that this Slovenia is turning into an authoritarian state on behalf of the epidemic?Oh, my God! How can you not be ashamed when you actually cheated on the electorate and the electorate? Before the elections, you assured the world that you would not go to the government with Janez Janša. Moreover, the SMC was established as the anti-policy policy of John Janša, and now you've swallowed all of this. I don't know why; either because of some wages in the National Assembly or because some want to be ministers for another year. I just don't know why. I don't know why. And I'm upset, I admit, when I look at Minister Kozlovich in Studio City -- it's like she's been kidnapped. I wanted to call the police; as if she had been kidnapped, she did not hope to open her mouth when asked what she would do if the Prime Minister said otherwise. In short, another year of this will bring nothing good to Slovenia. And one of the areas you've done the most is education and education. And who are the biggest victims? Kids. It's about children, a respected coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, my colleague would simply point out that Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec is being kept in the traffic light under the record of the applicant, colleague mag. And Marko Koprivc under the speaker. The time they still have as a proposalr is both an hour and can't be deleted, that's the problem. All I'm asking is for understanding and further understanding, so there won't be any complications. Now let's get on with it. The word is Primoz Siter. And after him, he'll get the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, Members and Members, Minister and representatives of the Ministry! I am confidently and deeply in favour of the interpellation of the School Minister for Unprofessionality or of service to the Prime Minister Janez Janša, for silence in the dialogue with the professional, key stakeholders in the school process or any process. In fact, there is no single decree in this government, or there is one minister who does not deserve this hot chair today, but today we have before us a school minister and an analysis of her work, a call for responsibility for many of the kicks she has caused this year's ministry. Education is a very universal problem. The area touches all of us — either parents, or educators, or children, of old parents. A very wide, very large, very heterogeneous area, which also requires such treatment in times of crisis, i.e. very broad, understanding that there are many areas that have very clear specifics. The worst thing you can do in your treatment is flattening. But flat rates are what we see from the Ministry of Education's address of Minister Kustec in dealing with the problems that have come with the epidemic. We have different levels of education: primary, secondary, university and beyond. We have many areas covered by university and secondary education and sub-districts. Then we have different social factors here that affect how people are educated, geographical factors, then the way different geography has been affected by the epidemic and so on. Many of the factors to be taken into account in addressing the problem of education are not addressed by the Minister. Today’s flat-rate answers are still the best indication of the policy that has been pursued to solve this school crisis — flatly. When we talk about solving the crisis or solving schoolgirls and schoolchildren, students and students, their parents, we have two main problems. One is this social problem, within which it must be understood that children, schoolchildren and students continue not to come into the learning process with the same starting position, and the other is this educational aspect. We are already on social issues for a long and broad period of time, and I think today's debate will offer some key points, and in terms of education, I must stress once again the problem of this flat-rate treatment in addition to its width. Just so I can describe the problem very clearly and in a plastic way, I turn to one very specific small, not even very small, but yet very specific field covered by the school’s department, and these are music schools. Too often forgotten, too often suppressed on the side track, understood as some leisure activity — so little for one. But quite too often, the ministry, especially in this crisis, has forgotten that it is a key element of the Slovenian education system. In Slovenia we have 65 music schools in the public network, there are 2 000 people and some people in them, 25 000 500 children and adolescents are involved in educational programmes in Slovenian music schools – music and dance and ballet. Visiting a music school is not a hobby, it is not so little for a leisure activity, but it is a serious educational process. The educational process that needs to be continued, which brings a person from a music or dance workshop that can be started at four, five years old, to primary music education, high school, then education at the academy, also in many, then academic or pedagogical music careers. And the reduction or unnecessary spread of the educational process that we have witnessed in this epidemic falls, with respectable colleagues and colleagues, under at least nine readings of the list of the twenty in the interpretation, which the Minister has blamed, in particular with her silence, in particular with her failure to address this area. Music educators, their top music school organisation, all wanted to carry on a dialogue with the minister, a dialogue for which the minister, in her two interventions, had been allowed to defend that she was open to take him and that they were pleased with him on all sides. Nah, in music schools, they're a long way from being happy with it. The most painful, they stress themselves, is this ignorance, this silence, this flat-rate treatment of problems and silence. At the moment, the minister has two letters on her desk, one of the roof music schools and the other of the dance teachers. Music schools are partially open, partially closed, open in part of individual instruction with instruments, they are closed in part of the science of music and solfeggia because children have to sit there in classes together. There they are closed, regardless of the fact that schools are open, that in classes that sometimes number up to 30 people in primary schools, education is now taking place. The teaching of music is one thing that is done twice a week after one school hour, and in classrooms sits an average of 8 to 15 people, and this lesson is still forbidden. Again flat and without regard to the profession, without taking account of representatives in this case of the pedagogical profession. And then there's dance, contemporary dance and ballet in Slovenian music schools. On 12 February, colleagues and colleagues opened sports societies, training and training and dance schools. In public music schools, Slovenian public music schools, young ballet girls and ballet dancers and dancers of modern dance are still not allowed to practice. And once again, it is a teaching that is set within the structure of basic music and secondary music and further education. It's not a leisure activity. And, of course, dance educators came forward, called on the minister to act, asked whether this government was so shamelessly seeking to bury Slovenian public education, public music education, so that private providers could perform their services on the other hand. Or something, they're wondering. They didn't get the answer. Not that they are satisfied with the answer, the answer did not come to them at all. And now music schools, especially in this dance work, report a drop in entry, report that the departments are shrinking, as a result of concern that this will affect the employment of teachers, the employment of smaller departments, or if there are no departments, are, of course, questioned. It affects admission to high school music or the art department of high school, but the minister is quiet. No response to the teachers, no plan, no realization. Pedagogists say – we don't need thanks, we've seen them with overflight planes. This also reminds me personally of the story when workers in critical infrastructure still do not receive the contribution to the salaries they are entitled to, but have received a flight of planes and a lot of thanks in the National Assembly. Thanks don't count. I call on the Minister at this point to answer the teachers from the music schools. In the final stage, their continued employment also depends on its action. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, I am sad to see how the government of Janez Janša is not only determined to destroy the culture and art that is now functioning, but also strategically clearly cares to destroy future generations of cultural creators, music and dance in this case. And I believe that the Minister will survive this interpretation in the Assembly Hall today. The numbers show her favor, but outside among the music schoolchildren, among the music schoolchildren, among the parents, the old parents, the teachers, and so on, the minister has long been intertwined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. He will be followed by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in the House of Democracy we bring stability, confidence in the rule of law and, above all, respect for human beings. We in New Slovenia have a different attitude, we are always ready for dialogue and we are working together to find a solution that will try to please both sides. And at the resignation of the previous government at the end of January last year and at the arrival of an invisible enemy – covid-19 New Slovenia did not want to throw the rifle into the corn, as did the previous Prime Minister of the Government, but we took responsibility. With our discussions with various political parties, we were able to get together when it was necessary, something you did not know in the previous government. We made 14 together. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has responded very well and quickly to the required situation at home and around the world on the first day of its operation. And what is most important — we have taken responsibility. We've taken responsibility. That's what you didn't want to do in the opposition. In a way, I understand you, because it's easier to throw a rifle into corn than it is to work and make decisions in these circumstances. I am aware, however, that none of us are perfect, and neither is Minister Simona Kustec, and she was probably making mistakes, mistakes that would not have been made if this government were in opposition. He who works is also sinning. But he who sits in the opposition does nothing but speaks much. And whatever this government does, the opposition will never be fine. You twist words, you dial numbers when they come in handy. You're talking about the covida-19 deaths and the inability of this government to save lives. On the other hand, you demand that schools be opened as soon as possible, and some even demand a school without masks. One thing and the other is not going together, it's just not going together, so we have to pour ourselves some clean wine, why today is actually going on. Today we have a 16-hour debate in this Chamber of Democracy, where the opposition will read to the Minister many things and convince the citizens of what is wrong. 16 hours of debate, from which our citizens will have absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. The standard of our citizens will not be any better because of this debate. However, I must respond to the words of my fellow President, also to the words of my predecessor, Mr Siter, who says that the Minister of Interpellation will continue. Great, then let's get right to the vote. Why do you need all this show today, I wonder. All of us, both the opposition and the coalition, know why he is actually going to this national assembly today. There'll be no bread from this flour, we all know that. The fact is, we know that the Minister of Interpellation will also be through and it's just a show. A show for all those who now watch this on television screens. Of course, this show would not have been if the circus had not been transmitted by the camera RTV Slovenia. The opposition's aim is to tarnish the work of the Minister and the work of this government. That's a fact. They want to divert attention away from the good work of this government and from what we do good in this government. In the opposition, they want to convince us that only bad things come from this national assembly, that is a fact; and nothing else is involved. The fact is that this government and this National Assembly have adopted several anti-Korona packages in the last year that have successfully saved the economy that is the backbone of the state budget. We restored dignity to our families and successfully addressed unemployment, which is a major problem in the post-pandemic world. It is not negligible that in Europe we have negotiated a record new package of money that will turn Slovenia to development, to services of greater added value, and above all to the equitable development of the whole country. At the initiative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, a law on free kindergartens was passed for the second, third and all other children from the same family. A law on scientific research is also being prepared to contribute to the funding system for scientific research. In 2020, and these are facts, the Minister provided an additional €87.5 million with a financial plan balance for the smooth functioning of institutions and institutions. This increases resources for scientific research activities. In 2020, funds increased by €38.6 million compared to 2019. In 2021, science funding will be higher by 40 million compared to 2020. Resources for education and education and sports are increasing. As early as 2020, funds increased by €10.5 million compared to 2019. In 2021, the funds will be higher by €134.3 million compared to 2020. This government is working. Apparently, however, the opposition is running out of material to overthrow this government. Interpellations follow the current tape. It's a cheap collection of political points. But I think you showed what you were capable of when you were in power. This government is much more capable than it was before, it can cooperate, which you did not know, even though you had much better conditions and conditions. I wonder what would happen if you were in power now. The rapporteur, SD, discusses how students could not get a free meal. I didn't understand you. Excuse me? But I understand what I saw when you were in power. In 2010, your SD secretary cut off a warm meal for the students. Minister Igor Lukšič simply said that there is no money for lunches for everyone, and he abolished the 100% funding lunch for the students. Today his client colleague talks here in the National Assembly about how students could not get a free meal because of the closing of schools, which is one big lie. The SD Member knows exactly that we have already arranged this in PKP6. Taking care of your fellow man and your actions shows when you're in power and not when you're investing in the opposition like-minded interpretation and deceiving our citizens. In other words, all the problems and problems in this country have arisen by the appointment of this government, and before that government, honey and milk have dipped in the country. The schools closed their doors in March last year because she demanded the profession and not because the minister so requested. Schools then set up distance education, so that we all joined together — students, students, students, parents, teachers, directors — into a completely unknown environment. However, it turns out that the preparation and introduction of digitisation into the school system has been lacking since before the distance learning period, despite the promises of some previous ministers and the investment of funds in computerisation. It is said that they also bear this responsibility in the party of the proposer – in the party SD. Your minister was also head of the Ministry of Education. Here it is to commend the pro-active role of the Minister and the Ministry, which immediately – but indeed immediately – came to an active introduction of distance education and, together with the entire education system, has responded very well despite the difficult circumstances. However, many parents have learned that teachers work and that it is difficult to teach and raise their children. They say it's all for something good. I also need to respond to the observation made in the interpretation itself that we have the longest period of school closure in Slovenia. Most of the countries reviewed closed all educational institutions, including kindergartens, due to the expansion of the covida-19 pandemic in March 2020. As a rule, the teaching was only done remotely. The exception was only Sweden, where primary schools worked smoothly all the time. And the countries that are currently closed all schools and what you have seen before from the graph, if I list them, are Italy, Portugal, Greece, Slovakia, Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland. And countries with partially closed schools are Ireland, Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Denmark and Cyprus. Today they have the most to say precisely those who have been in power for the last 20 years for 14 years. Today, all questions are answered by those who consciously chose not to rule and threw the rifle into the corn. And today, in this National Assembly, the wisest are those who are masters of populism, who care about their seat in the National Assembly, and by publishing populist content on social networks. They say students are hungry, but they sign half a million annexes for construction companies themselves. And finally, today this government exists because the super-coalist party did not want to join the government, because what it says in the opposition will never be able to fulfill in power. Why didn't you take responsibility in the super-collective party, but you would have your own minister and you wouldn't have to deal with this interpretation today. We could have our own Minister of Education, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Health, and some other. So it doesn't matter what anyone says in the opposition; it's important what they do when they're in power. Interpellation is a legitimate tool of the opposition, but today it is nothing more than a waste of time — 16 hours of wasted time. So today we are wasting and stealing time for things that would be much more urgently needed. Today's intervention by the Minister of Education is not the voice of reason and of strong arguments, but it is primarily not a solution to nothing, but it points to a severe struggle by the opposition to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Get Tomaž Lisec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to the Secretary of State and the absent Minister! At first, I'd like to take what our constitution dictates. This is Parliamentaryism, which recognises the diversity of views, interests and views and already commands, with its name, a conversation and dialogue in this room, in this Parliament, which is supposed to lead to more coherent and compromise solutions, not Bolshevism, this is a vote, and in this direction a sufficient number of votes. The Constitution also provides in its 110th Article that the Government shall be composed of the President and the Ministers. It provides that the Presidents and Ministers shall, within their respective powers, be independent and accountable to the National Assembly. This is happening today. This clearly highlights the Minister's own responsibility to assume that she is able to seek and enforce appropriate answers to the demands and problems affecting her area. On appointment, she swore to respect the Constitution, i.e. those provisions that we are now talking about, which are part of the constitutional order, and committed herself to following her conscience and working with all her power for the welfare of Slovenia. It is true that ministers are also responsible for the government's work, but it remains the primary responsibility that each minister is specifically responsible for the work of his own ministry, for his own field. The idea behind this constitutional provision is that ministers and ministers are primarily committed to their institution, knowledge and behaviour in their decision-making and operation, which should ensure that the state operates in this particular area in an optimal manner, in the benefit and well-being of its citizens. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport also includes care for kindergartens and for public education as well as sports. These are very important areas for the development of our children, our greatest wealth, as we have the custom of saying, for the carriers of our future and also for the generations that will ultimately bear the burdens of today's indebtedness. In doing so, we believe that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport has not played her part firmly enough, but has taken a different path, even though she has had the necessary professional support and solutions for different receptions from strict school closures. Instead, it gave in to pressure requirements for more restrictive measures. Measures that follow, as it seems and appears, also some completely different objectives, which have nothing to do with finding optimal balanced solutions in the context of the pandemic in the field of education, science and sport. In doing so, it does not need to be strongly stressed how sensitive childhood is and strength is a significant life span. It is a period in which our children are intensively mentally and physically mature, adopting basic learning skills, getting to know themselves as students and persons, and developing basic strategies for self-sustainment and group skills. Within this educational and educational environment, children gradually develop values for learning and knowledge, as well as their self - image. All of this later leads them into further life and development in achieving quality living standards. Knowledge of the development and functioning of the brain, especially in recent times, at a time of leaping neuroscience, shows clearly how important it is to acquire knowledge and social and other skills, including physical skills, during childhood. It is the most intense formation and strengthening of brain connections, this is synapses between neurons, because physical and motional matters are also very important for the development of the brain’s mental part. We can't forget that. And this is a particularly intense period up to the tenth year, experts say. In the SAB, we are particularly critical of the fact that in this situation, children who come from families with lower material conditions who are unable to help their children in a qualitative manner, not according to knowledge, or according to appropriate technical equipment, have suffered additional harm. The lack of development in these children will especially prove to us later. In addition, economic organisations and public services also suffered from the closure of schools. Why? Because the parents of these young children, who are currently in the most intensive period of their work creativity, are additionally burdened and overloaded, causing frustration. I have contact with them, between the children and them. They simply can't do it and, in fact, their effectiveness is also falling. The time window in the development of all these children who are not involved in the normal learning and training process, professionally guided, is actually lost. We need to be aware of that. Generations are affected. From here also a warm recommendation from the professional minister and also in the SAB we strongly recommend that they follow this instruction, that schools close the last and open the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Get Tina Hefferle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, nice greetings to all of you! I have a feeling that some, at least most of the applicants, are somehow forgetting in their discussions that we are still at the time of the epidemic. That this epidemic is not only a Slovenian phenomenon invented by Janez Janša or by this central government, but that we have a global problem with an epidemic that has escalated in one way or another and has also greatly affected our country. Now to be wise, the final results of this epidemic will be in Slovenia, Europe or the world, unfortunately, too quickly, because some experts are already alerting us to the third wave that is already taking place in individual countries; and there are closing down various activities, even borders, while in certain regions we are already looking forward to opening a terrace if you want, or, unlike any other country, we have open hair salons for quite some time and so on. And today we are always hearing about how we had schools closed in Slovenia. Despite closed schools, however, we had a very good educational system or educational process that was pretentious, unlike those days when we were without everything and without imagination, March 2020, but about this a little later. I think we forget, too, that even in normal times we do not all have the same conditions. There are different children, we are different parents, we have different Internet access, we have different good teachers and unfortunately less good teachers, and I believe there are very few. We have different decision makers, than those who not only insist on eight or ten hours in their school, but who associate formally or informally with different educational entities in the afternoon because they want their school to be good in all areas. In no situation do they have and do not all have the same conditions, so today we talk about how some of the epidemic has suffered more, some less, and how some of them have such or other problems; even in a normal situation, the world is not ideal, but some are more serious, such as this government, and some are slightly less serious, to remember those affairs when we were without protective masks, they are dealing with unforeseen situations. And as the Minister has already said, which one of us would be betting in March 2020, what will be the situation in March 2021. We could be smart, we could be Nostradamus, but we still don't know where we're going to be today in March 2022. And I agree that school is important and that during this time of epidemics, school closures or schooling from home were children and parents in such and different situations. But sometimes I wonder what our education system has brought us in normal situations. How does a certain part of people — and I hope that this is a minority — spend two months of summer vacations with their children? This has got to be really awful somewhere. Three months in prison for an epidemic, for protecting the health of fathers and mothers, old parents, it's the worst thing. What did these parents, who, because of not knowing that there was an epidemic, scream so horribly, do with their children from 1st to 9th grade and during high school, during summer vacations? Is it at that time that the older parents are the biggest losers now not supposed to visit our youngest because of health problems? And that I will not be misunderstood, I believe that many parents have had problems coordinating family and school work as well. My wife too happened to ask her boss on Monday at 3:00 p.m. if she could be home on vacation on Wednesday, because we had an extraordinary meeting in the National Assembly, or if it even happened that I asked her to come home from work at 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday morning, because I have an urgent meeting of a committee. It wasn't easy, but somehow we could. And I believe most of them did. I also believe there have been problems, but, once again, these particular problems also exist in normal situations. Then today we listened to an empty reply from the minister. I have to say that I have read the interpretation where we can agree that it could be better, but, once again, to be smart in March 2021 for March 2020 is at least a little confused with reality because we don't know what happened yet; but it's more of a knock on the chest – but we knew. You knew the kid. And on the other hand, we have the minister's reply on 90 pages, very substantively, I have to say that it is very difficult to read, what has been happening in different subsectors within the education system, how it has been trying to adapt to the new situation every day; and at this time, there have been repeated and repeated search for individual solutions. I wonder whether Mr Marjan Sarec, who announced the closure of schools, kindergartens and student homes, also had solutions on 12 March 2020. He didn't have masks. He had no knowledge, and he probably had no idea what to do. And after the press asked him how long the schools would be closed, how they would be replaced by teaching, whether school vacations were threatened, whether schools would be organised, the journalists were reassured because the real government was at peace because they had the answer that they would have all the information and would also be introduced to the public. Journalists are silently waiting every day for ministers and state secretaries to adapt to new realities daily, or even as a political agenda, to say that journalists are experts who know more. And if they come in front of TV cameras politicians, they say – we don't want politicians in front of cameras. When epidemiologists come, they say – politics must decide whether they should come; or whether they are wrong experts on a particular television house again. Never good. On 12 March 2020, however, it was right for journalists to receive an answer – that when we have all the information, we will make them known to the public. But I have to admit that in part, I would say, amuse myself, but since I know Mr Koprivec, I knew he was serious when he was so strict about how we were at the time of the epidemic. “Messengers took off their masks in the middle of the meeting: We are no longer going masquerade. Member Marko Koprivc called for an uprising.” So much for the responsible conduct of today's interpolation proponent. And I have three more here, four pictures of an individual member interrupting – “I will no longer wear it” or something like that. So much for this bite and worry – we really want the good, but we'll be guessing that then the minister will be easier on your floor. As far as this paradigm is concerned — the longest time in closed school. At first it was said - in the world, then you said that the world is not interested because there are some South- and Latin-American countries, because they are really a little strange, but we are interested in Europe. And when you get on the projections that in fact there were at least eight countries, or after one study or after another, there were longer closed school doors, you're looking for other excuses and you want some other questions. The situation of today has been published: "In Belgium, the restrictive measures that have been in force since October have been slowing down very slowly. Today students could return to the classroom after a year, but in a very limited number and under strict conditions.” What dictatorship must this be in Belgium?Oh, my God! Not only do they have no authority or have authority in the regions, they have a fascist dictatorship there. Surely they must have it if poor students had to be home for one year, and today is the happy day when they can return in very limited numbers and under very strict conditions. But that's not what the proponents are interested in. With us, this government is terrible because — let us be honest — it is the wrong president of the government to be exposed to. But if we're going to put another minister on the road, that's even better. And today we listen – generations will suffer. I say that in the Slovenian school system, let no good teacher blame me, at least a third of the ballast is. And when I talked to the teachers about what they said several times – yes, we do less than normal, but we do ballast. So, on the one hand, this Coronavirus epidemic showed – and I hope that they will be at the Ministry together with the principals and the Education Institute with someone else – that there is too much ballast within the Slovenian educational process or system. A lot too much. What I had to explain to my classmate and fourth grader, I had the feeling that we were taking it to the end of elementary school, and they're almost eight or ten years old doctors who need to know these things. With all due respect, it kind of looks like hours in mathematics when we're dealing with logarithms. How many people do they need in practice? I guess I said a little too much. In short, much too much time for too little real content and too much ballast. Another table, current state, has already been shown multiple times. But Slovenia is the problem. Today, too little has been said about funding during the covid-19 epidemic. Implementation of the Ministry 2020 – 47 million. In 2021, the numbers are up to 12. 3. - 30 million. Number of pieces of ICT equipment. I was a Member in 2012 when they were making a fool of the so-called superminister who said that the basics of digitisation should be introduced in the field of education. And when he mentioned a tablet or tablet, they laughed at him. But almost nothing happened in this area between 2012 and 2020. Almost nothing except that in 2012 individual municipalities also received internet connection in individual projects, such as GOŠO, as we received in the part of Posavje and in the part of the so-called Peace Valley. And while this terrible system is, this terrible government and this terrible minister is to blame for everything, the total amount of the budget is growing. We're going to have one similar interpretation next week, another Culture Minister, who made a record budget, is going to be intertwined. What does that mean? There, Mr Simič, sitting in a special office, we coordinate debirocratisation, if you are good and create a lot, escapes from this Slovenia until you can, because either they will pick you up or you will sit on that chair under the name of interpolation. The movement of integral resources, invitations to tender for kindergartens and primary schools was not in 2013, instead of the commendation and the reward followed by interpellation. Fair enough? No, no, no. Right? No, no, no. And this at the time of the epidemic, which is not, once again, Slovenia and not even the SDS program, as we sometimes listen by the opposition and by the media. And to conclude another matter that I asked myself, because I had three children, several times in this tracking of different infographers, whether the children really had nothing to do with the coronary epidemic. They may be few carriers, but what we want, they will be alive and old parents – God bless them. If they are 80 years old, we hear that they are already part of the problem in this Slovenia, but you tell those who lost their parents or old parents. But look at the date, the last number – today's numbers I haven't seen on the tracker – confirmed examples by age group. From 0 to 4; 5 to 14 and from 15 to 24. It's kindergarten, elementary school, high school, and also part of college. Total 23% of patients in this age category, almost one quarter. And I'm asking you, have you ever driven past any obituary ambulances — who was standing there? How many children or adolescents did you see there? Almost none, but it still amounts to 23% of the number of patients. But there were 30 plus or 25 generations of people there, but the working generation and the older people that were shaking, or maybe those kids and those teenagers didn't bring the virus. And they were happy, even if they hadn't seen each other live for two or three months, but I believe that a lot of people saw themselves the way we saw ourselves, there's Zoom, there's Messenger and there's countless other apps. Slovenia did not stop, thanks to this government and also thanks to the minister and her team. She has stood far less than the comparable European countries, but, as it is said, instead of commending, instead of awarding in Slovenia for decent work and good results, you will get an interpretation. I can't support it on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The replica has Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u62	Vice President, thank you. I'd like to replicate my colleague, Rebecca, who unfortunately isn't here. For him it is the custom that he is not; he comes, reckons with the current left opposition and goes. I mean, he misunderstood me at work when I said that the Minister would survive the interpellation. Of course it will, because you have a comfortable majority in this House; and you have not said another part. And this is the part where I said that when the Minister's intervention survives, you will take the burden of all coalition Members on your shoulders, the burden of all the mistakes made by the Minister in the past year, as well as possible mistakes – I hope that as little as possible – even in the future. I also hope that my colleague, Reberšek, will first learn that the essence of politics is not accounting with other thinkers, which we have been accustomed to in the last period, because in his performances he does nothing but claim that their government works and settles with the left opposition. The essence of politics is completely different. The essence of politics is in dialogue and that you may at times admit a mistake of your own. When you admit your own mistake, you can also look for good solutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President. Perhaps a few responses to some generalisations, which obviously are today's coalition members' tactics, are meant to try to paint a picture a little bit simpler than it really is. This is most eloquently seen in this remote singing of learning. The premium was, the distance learning was going great, we just moved all of it from physical classrooms to online classrooms. One more time. It's great that at least somehow the kids could have gone to school, but far from being a cartoon, far away from being perfect or perfect for children. And no, it's not the same for everyone. Distance learning does not mean the same opportunities, and this is much more reflected in physical education in a physical school. I do not agree here that the differences before the epidemic or between the epidemic due to social, social and economic status are the same. No, they're getting deeper. Distance learning has deepened these differences because the school is acting as a mechanism, such as an institution that can and can facilitate these differences; and they are usually easier. This was by no means so ideal in this sense that it was all the same as in school, just that in some virtual world. Nor did it go from school to school, from region to region, from place to place. We must also be aware of this, as Mr Pecan also said that at the beginning of the epidemic they had discovered how great differences exist between different municipalities, between different places, between different regions. The Ministry here did not provide some guidelines and, in particular, some guidelines that would be the same for all schools. This is also one of the major problems, at least in the first wave, at least in the spring of last year, learning at a distance was very arbitrary, in the sense that it was not uniform. It was different from school to school, from teacher to teacher, not now that even when school is at school, every teacher takes a little bit of this stuff. There's a different situation. When we have long - distance education, we should be stuck with some very clear gabarites or parameters of how to drive these things. Now you had a situation where students received a written assignment by email, and on the other hand you had teachers who were preparing videos, interactive exercises and so on during the same period. And this is also the difference in education and accessibility, and this was also the responsibility of the ministry. And the Ministry has transferred this responsibility to individual schools. A comparison with summer vacations also shows this misunderstanding. This is completely depressed and similar to that statement that teachers did not even know how to turn the computer on before the epidemic. Summer vacations are spent by children as they survive, depending on their parents, depending on their family, depending on the environment; but distance learning was something that drew the whole family. I'm not as optimistic as my colleague Lisec said that most people could have done these things in one way or another. A lot of them just couldn't. Many employers did not give their workers the opportunity to work from home, vacations, or absenteeism in order to be able to deal with children. And it might still be about a week or two, but this situation has been going on for four months and, of course, it's some kind of pressure. Not even preach about any choice between children and old parents, for if someone cannot moralize about how many older people died in this country, someone representing a ruling party. We know what was going on in the homes for older citizens, how much that government had done for them. I'm also concerned when someone's having a problem with the curriculum, when someone's having problems with school content, and they're labeled as some sort of ballast when a logarithm becomes something that sucks. I don't know where that kind of thinking leads. Of course, the world is not ideal, and we can all agree on it, but it is far more terrible than some paint it; and especially these social, wealth differences are so important in these matters. And when we talk about school, it's physical school that can save these things. I'm just asking in advance, too, that it's not as flat-rate as these things and it's trying to reject them because they're important. A number of studies, as well as what social educators and developmental psychologists, point out these important differences that occurred during this epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica has Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't think the proposer, but since I know Mr Vatovec, he didn't quite understand me, not that he didn't want to understand me. It was no lump sum. I told myself there were differences between school and physical school, but that was the situation. It was not any defiance, nor was it even less generalization, nor was it at least to idealize distance learning. I only stopped for a moment at the sentence that all those who said how terrible it was to have children at home at the time of school, what they did to children during summer vacations. And I didn't generalize it at all, but I wondered when people came to me who said - I can't be with the kids at home anymore. And I gave everyone a question – What do you do with children in the summer? And there was silence. No contempt, no generalization, not idealization at all. At the very least, it's distance school vacationing. As a parent, my children’s principals and teachers have been very conscientious in their work, and so they also deserve summer vacations and before holidays, I hope, our mutual commendation and thanks for the work they have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u68	No, I really understood very well. Once again, the question of what you will do with children during summer vacations, as some answer to people complaining that they will no longer be able to endure, is completely depressed. I know people from my social circle who had to teach children, feed them, and all at one or two jobs. And not all people in such an environment, Comrade Lisec, are able to afford it. [[advertising from the hall]] If you're moralizing someone that what they're going to do in the summer, when children don't have lessons, with their children, because now you have to teach them, cook them, wash them, and I don't know what else, it's a complete misunderstanding of the situation. [[advertising from the hall]] That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u69	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please don't disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President, but the right-hand side of the Tribunal seems to be in the way of any different opinion. They're always upset. Anyway, once again, I understood it that way. You don't understand people's grip. You're wondering how people can complain about not being able to take it anymore. Of course, gratitude goes to the teachers, the principals, and all who could make sure that the children could learn. But because of the many burdens I have said before, not everyone has had the privilege of working from home so that they can do some work later when the children have finished teaching and so on. All these people have complained of distance learning for so long a distance lesson. Once again, I understand, people can take some things for a while, but not all have the same conditions so that they can teach their children with all their presence and actually pay as much attention as it takes for children to be educated. My wife and I had our third - grade students at home, and we were concerned that they were doing all the work and that we could at least roughly replace what was lost in this distance lesson. But once again, not everyone, and few have the privilege to afford it. Those who called for help and wondered how much longer it would take, believe me, were not some unfaithful parents who did not want to deal with their children, but were people on the brink of burnout. People who wondered when children would normally begin to attend school, not because they are lazy, but because you cannot expect parents who are not teachers who are not qualified to bring all this process together in the way that they are taking it. And doing the job, and a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has Tina Hefferle, prepare Gregor the Jew. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Nice greeting to you all, Your Honor! Now, in the beginning, I will only touch briefly on Mr Rebersk's debate. For me, with all due respect, professor of populism. I am concerned about the degree of democracy in this country, where the MP of the coalition does not recognise the fundamental parliamentary tool which is interpolation, and somehow relativises all this debate that we are going to have today in the temple of democracy, where the essence of the debate is. No, we have not forgotten that we are at an epidemic stage, but even or especially at a time when we are in an epidemic, we should not neglect fundamental democratic parliamentary elements or standards, as I have already said, interpellation is certainly. If, however, I now pay my attention to the minister for whom we are here today. In her introduction today, she said that interpellation is part of a political game in this fragile time and that this debate will generally be political in one way or another. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but I'd like to start by demeaning you. My findings will not be political, they will not be based or on any personal discrediting of you, but they will be professional and as such entirely sufficient to justify your political responsibility today and to justify it, yes, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, professionally, if you do not disturb me, please. Now, let's start at the beginning, Madam Minister, on the ground. Every minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who takes over any resort, is obliged to respect constitutional order, to follow his conscience and to work with all his power to benefit Slovenia. This was your oath at the time of the minister's office, just like any minister. And let's see if you've successfully implemented it this year. We should respect the constitutional order. In our country, the rule of law is based on a number of general rules and general principles that define the existence of a rule of law, such as the principle of legality and the obligation to publish laws and other legal rules, as well as the principle of predictability of legal rules and so on. Now you, Madam Minister, have violated exactly what I have just listed, and this has only been found by the Constitutional Court when it decided that your conclusions, Madam Minister, with whom you have ordered distance learning, were null and void, because you have violated the fundamental rule in force in every legal country. This is for the regulations to be published. In doing so, the Constitutional Court will write very clearly in the first of its decisions, which I will state today, and concern you, of course, of your work: "The decision of the Minister responsible for education, i.e. the decision on the implementation of the distance education work, has not entered into force." Next: "Accepting the decision to carry out distance education work is entirely within the competence of the Minister responsible for education." Further: "The Minister's conclusion therefore means her original decision." So, Madam Minister, your responsibility here in these unconstitutional decisions is indisputable and obvious. You should make sure that the conclusions you have instructed all schoolchildren to study from home have been published, or these conclusions would only be published in accordance with the law in force in that country, but they were not. And it is your responsibility that children instead of school went home without any legal basis. If I speak of respect for the constitutional order which was your commitment in this oath, it is another very obvious violation of this commitment or oath that you will respect the constitutional order and thus, of course, all the rules in force in this country, when you are at a time when under government rules the obligation to wear a mask in closed public spaces was again indisputable and very obvious. You'd like to visit a public event with a dinner party, without a mask. By doing so, you have violated the rules that you have adopted even yourself, Madam Minister. In fact, as part of a ministerial team, you are also part of a collective body called the government, and you have adopted these rules on masks. So once again, your violation here is undeniable. More than this violation of yours will and will worry about your ignorant and disrespectful attitude in this violation of yours towards all other citizens who have respected these rules of yours that you have adopted in the Government on wearing masks. More than that, your attitude towards respect for the rule of law and constitutional order in force in this country, part of which are also rules adopted by the Government. But to make things even more absurd, if we remember, you simply apologized for this violation of the rules, even wrote it on Twitter, and, look at the fraction, because you were so truly sorry, but everything was okay. Your second commitment from this oath of ministers – with all its power should work for the welfare of Slovenia, Madam Minister. Well, and while the representatives of the paediatric profession and ultimately the Constitutional Court all warned you in one voice that, above all, children with special needs are disproportionately disadvantaged in their rights, you were looking past. The Constitutional Court, in its first decision, where it has already determined that your nullity of decisions you have issued is very clear that the decision to educate children with special needs is disproportionate, and somehow in that first decision the Constitutional Court gave you the opportunity to correct this error. Obviously, Madam Minister, you did not at the time consider whether you were either observant or conscientious in your work in order to pursue this well-intentioned intention of the Constitutional Court. However, if it is a bit concrete, the Constitutional Court wrote in that first decision: “The Constitutional Court adds that, taking into account the current situation,” i.e. the epidemiological conditions “filled for the suspension of the decision relating to the prohibition of the exercise of education and education in schools and institutions for children with special needs”. You have already been told here that the conditions for this regulation to at least abstain have been met, and they have given you the opportunity to correct what you are doing wrong. But no, you, Madam Minister, have still persisted in this ban. Now I just rhetorically ask myself, does this mean to you that you will work with all your strength for prosperity, in this case for the welfare of children with special needs. You dared to look away at all this, to close your eyes in front of a professional who, as I have said before, in one voice warned a lot of things. Let me now read from the second decision of the Constitutional Court, to which all of you have been reminded by experts: "the further enforcement of any illegal regulation can undoubtedly have harmful consequences for children with special needs". Next: "Children with special needs need a specially adapted education delivery, which is why the closure of schools for these children has much greater consequences than for other children". Further: "In this regard, it should also be noted that a paediatric specialist has been warned and commented that in children with special needs, the educational process in the educational institution is intertwined with other aspects of the treatment of these children, such as physical care, physiotherapy, labour therapy, which cannot be obtained in the home environment, and these aspects of treatment for children with special needs are at least as important as the educational process itself, if not even more important." Madam Minister, you have not responded to all these warnings. If I lean on your opening remarks when you said that all the children continued their education, that's how you argued today at the beginning of the day. Yeah, they're not! When we look at children with special needs, where their educational process is intertwined with this health and special professional treatment, then you have violated both their rights, the right to continued education and the right to their health – because their health has certainly deteriorated when they did not attend these specialized programmes. And now to say that you have done everything in your power for these children with special needs is very uncritical and very unfair to these parents and especially to these children. You did not respond, even more, the government apparently opposed that position at that time because I should read it from the Constitutional Court decision, which states: "From the plan of action between Christmas and New Year's holidays adopted by the Government at its 45th regular session on 19 December, which, subject to the improvement of the epidemiological picture by 4. 1. 2021 provides for the opening of kindergartens and schools for the first triad” – now watch out! – “It does not appear that the opening of schools and institutions for children with special needs is planned as well”. You haven't done anything for these kids all the time to open their programs. Nothing at all. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court then writes in this same decision, and I quote from the decision that you will not say that this is just the opinion of a Member, the Constitutional Court stated: “In view of the small number of children attending schools and institutions for children with special needs and taking into account the opinion of the Section, the Constitutional Court considers that the prohibition of the collection of these children in educational institutions and the implementation of other related activities cannot constitute an essential contribution to preventing the further spread of the virus and the control of the epidemic.” And further, Madam Minister, when you manage to stop typing texts, I hope that you will listen to me, the Constitutional Court will record such a message of experts, who are also members of the expert advisory group of the Ministry of Health for the Covid-19 epidemic, has also been published several times in the media. But you didn't do anything. The parents of these children had to be activated and these programmes for children with special needs only opened after this second decision of the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court ordered you to open these institutions. Such a disgrace, Madam Minister, such a violation of the rights of these children, if it does not call for political responsibility, then I do not know what at all. If we have already reached the Constitutional Court, even in the case of the extension of accreditations to higher education institutions, where you have been able to adopt this provision as one of the subcontractors, the Constitutional Court has suspended your implementation of this decision. Why? I'll tell you why. From the second decision of the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court found that the adverse consequences caused by the implementation of the anti-constitutional regulation would be greater than the harmful consequences that would have arisen if the contested provisions had been implemented at all. So here with this motivator, if we're already trying to determine whether you're really working for the welfare of Slovenia or not, here you've probably been following some of the prosperity of your academic colleagues, and certainly not the welfare of Slovenia. And now this third blemish before the Constitutional Court is more than clear to the point, Madam Minister, that you have broken this oath you gave at the beginning of your mandate to work with all your strength for the well-being of Slovenia and you have put aside your oath in exchange for pursuing some partial interests, and this is to the detriment of the rule of law. If it doesn't call for political responsibility, then I don't know what it is. If we move on. The last of these vows you made in your oath is that you should follow your conscience. Madam Minister, you said something to the press conference several times in the morning, and then the Prime Minister questioned your statement and denied your information on Twitter most of the time at a press conference. And then through the day, you turned your position 180 degrees. Not many times. And the obvious fact that you didn't act on your conscience, but that you were some puppet in the hands of a great boss, is again more obvious and practically doesn't need any bigger words, nor will I list all those statements that you then ate during the day, because I won't take the time off my colleagues. But last but not least, some districts, at first you boasted that over 110 districts were sent to educational institutions. And according to my information, it's Sunday night for the second day. This number tells me only that you did not have a strategy or a plan, but that you made decisions ad hoc, confused, mixed communication, but quantity does not outweigh quality. To the conclusion. Madam Minister, you can count on many, I will say, the harmless things you have done in this mandate, you can even boast about some record budget for your department. But one only illegal act, one itself a harmful move or act on your part excuses political responsibility and excuses this interpolation. Madam Minister, if, after your first step into the world of adulthood, represents that man understands and accepts responsibility for his actions, and you, after all these words that we will hear today, continue to bite the light at the end of the tunnel through all these warnings, even though we are obviously showing you what professional mistakes you have made, where all of you have failed, which all of the human rights you have violated, if you persisted in this, then I am really worried and here I am merely rhetorically asking myself at what stage of your growing up are you, because in my opinion you have been greatly overstepped by the Maribor students. I'll make a dot here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u73	Thank you very much, but please don't insult anyone in this House. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to start with the facts, because it's so best we take the time if it's meant to. They say most of the time the minister didn't have a hearing. I don't think there's anyone else in this room who knows more about hearing, because in the previous term, the beacon was exactly 36 Members, and for everyone, I say, it was too much, even too much listening. That is why I cannot believe when it is one humanoid qualification to remain as pronounced as one truth hanging between us. The solution, or claim, that she had closed schools too quickly to help the health care industry, cannot be held. Holds it as a fact - but what does it mean to help health care too quickly in an epidemic? You help as fast as you can, but it's always too late. so, what would mean at three times the rate of the dead to close then. So I'm asking you to reconsider that when you're formulating claims that in some way at least they're holding back some basic logic. Because, as I have already said, I know her very well, I must say that she has no problem with this spinal uprightness, but it is interesting what I have seen as an observer during the meetings of the Education Committee often see that all those who set it on fire and then come into the lobby, because now coffee is there, every time they go by it is a little awkward and say, "Yes, but nothing personal minister, is there?" It's one such horrible episode that's happened over and over again. But it bothers me just because she's being read by those who show their soft spine only when the cameras are gone. Another moment in our society, which is overlooked today, is that our society is intertwined generationally. Our elders are not one lonely island, such as in the Netherlands or Sweden, where you can achieve one isolation by really protecting them from it. Our elders, parents, and this is wonderful, are part of our families, at least occasionally in contact and when we protect them, we must protect the entire structure of society so that we do not pass it on to them so that we do not lose them too soon. That is why I think it is right to say that the Minister has allowed school activities to continue by withdrawing them from this line of the front line of man from the virus, because at this moment, it has taken some time for man to have no weapons against this virus. The only isolation and physical removal is something that can be helpful. Or because young people do not get sick like older ones, push their heads into the sand, write a circle, say, wash your hands, cough into a cubit and go to school and do nothing. Would that be a solution, I ask? I'm sure you don't. The solution, which was, of course, unpleasant, caused a number of problems, but it also prevented a number of problems. I think that anyone who thinks honestly and looks at his family, his neighborhood, his school, here finds understanding. I would not say that she closed schools as an unappreciative dictator, but we can see that Ireland and Romania did it to the exact same extent, in a somewhat shorter period they had closed schools and Austria and the Czech Republic. There's something else that's good to say about this insubordination, because it's obvious to her, too. Firsthand, I can say one episode that's talkative enough that the teachers of the first triad have found that they can't work with children who don't read, don't write, and that they can't actually teach in such a way that they need one app on computers that's payable. They had it for free in use for a while. One of the teachers turned to me, and I immediately reported it to the Ministry. Before this period of free use expired, the Ministry's team found a way, despite knowing how it is with us, public procurement, up and down, all that must be sufficient to be able to offer to all teachers who were interested in this application. So much for insubordination and being absent and passive. The fact that it is passive is one such analysis that, in parallel with the fight against the epidemic, we have had several laws that have significantly improved the situation in the educational system. Today, the Act on Children with Behavioral and Emotional Disorders has already been mentioned, which has finally set up the treatment of these children in a way that is comprehensive and more effective. The law on kindergartens also prevents the worst abuse we have witnessed in the Kangaroo episode and has virtually given their breath and kangaroos and kangaroos because imagine how their parents feel about having their children treated in paid protection as if they were in a Romanian orphanage. Finally, the fact that the Kindergarten Act also introduces free kindergarten protection for the second or next child in a generational co-existence is something that we have not had for quite some time so far. And the last thing that seems important to me, of these things that are not mentioned, is that it is taken care of, say, in student homes, for all those students who have permanent residence in a student home, or for students' families, for students who cannot return, and for visiting professors, the possibility of a normal stay. So these homes weren't closed so heartless that they didn't care. As a parent, I can say that when it comes to a child who studies elsewhere and lives in a student home, I don't know which one of us would say at the time of the epidemic what you stay at home, but don't come home. So I think that if you just imagine that we simply have all the answers and the denials of these claims, which are more malicious than with some basis. I don't want to hang around here with some sketches, but it's a very eloquent curve when our schools opened up. When the death tolls of covid and the school were calmed, they also opened up when the covidus curve was detected. So in the most logical time, in the most logical place, looking at the time book. Otherwise, it is not possible or unreasonable. Besides, now I don't know what session we're listening to this story at, you know, without a mask, what a sin. I'd say it again because I just can't believe that someone's still serving it and is still punching into that same shit. At the event, she was almost the only one with a mask, and when they sat at the table where they served the food, she took off her mask. Now, if there was any new interpolation you could record when she's at the dentist's, say, and when he's working to say, yeah, she hasn't even had a mask yet. But when we're talking about these masks, we have a much dirtier story, this movement, or this school initiative without masks, because it was just a huge exploitation of the minute of the most striking media attention. They were very quick to shut up when they realized that this was a Hujska movement, when they urged people not to wear a mask at a time when the epidemic spreads right through the respiratory tract and the respiratory pathways. I don't know. Look for yourself. Schools were really closed for a long time, but the class was going on. And I will quote something else, “I have not offered an alternative to distance learning”. Well, what's the alternative to distance learning? It's a school lesson. This one can't be, so that's it. This and these idealistic ideas that the same teachers teach half of the class in school and half at the same time over the Internet, I think they would freak out teachers, because it's all very tense anyway. So I don't know who you're going to put on a double job to get it done that way. Where does it all go when you're trying to get rid of this minister's bone? We have also come up with accusations that she is guilty of eating disorders, that she is guilty of online harassment, that she is guilty of reduced mobility. And when it appears that there is really no limit to this escalation of accusations, in order to get as far as I can, I give it a rest that no one has ever come up with the idea that she's still a producer of any child pornography, because that would somehow be a complete story. But I just don't praise her because she knows I always say what I mean. A few days ago, we were just talking to the minister about self-criticism. And that's when she was saying that we're all a little bit self-critical together. I own this right as a number of her alter egos over the past six years to take a critical look at the Minister's response to protests in Maribor and Ljubljana. I don't think it's good that it came from the fact that they're young adults who understand and accept responsibility for their actions. I think we should definitely stand on their side because she's an adult, and that's why she needs to understand what they're doing. Why? Because these young people have tried to be active citizens, they have turned to the President of the Republic, who has responded quite correctly that he has the will to help, but he has no leverage, the possibility of doing so. They turned to the opposition, which had the will to politicize it and lead to its mill. But I say it is up to us not to stop looking for a solution, but not because of these penalties or because of the court, but because of their confidence in the country and this civic awareness and active citizenship. I understand their gesture as an entrenched civil and justifiable attempt to in some way civilise, as far as possible, show how high their despair is, to show how bloodyly they need help and an understanding response. Finally, they need a way out of this. The minister said her part in a rather overheated atmosphere, and it sounded not enough ministerial, but it also sounded like she was speaking to a strict and just mother, as a strict mother, where there was no abandonment, which one also had for an corrective response. This interpolation is about to end. It is up to us here that, when it comes to students, we do not remain on verbal support and on silent understanding, nor on consenting to a fine or a possible criminal procedure. We are here to understand the Minister and find a solution for those who want to see not the face of repression, but some progress. And here I think it's best if I finish because I've shown the main facts. I don't support interpretation. Why? Because the entire educational system has done much more from the bottom to the top of the pyramid than is described here today. He saved even one school year from almost impossible events that could have happened. It is therefore not right that today, in this one-day dance around the shameful pillar, what interpretation is, in fact, these things are overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Now we've heard that we're dancing around a shameful pillar. We've heard a lot of interesting things. The Minister said that there would be a lightbulb for political accounting, which is not fair, that there would be a debate within the framework of emotions and not understanding and so on. Many facts were presented. I will present a framework for this interpretation for citizens and citizens and especially young people who are very interested in this topic. The minister says you have to take responsibility for your actions if you're a grown man and a young man. And I think it would be very fair and right that she would be an example of this and actually demonstrate by her resignation how responsibility is taken. But we're not going to get that. The Minister here today will not give up, and even interpretation is a big question if she succeeds, because we know how many votes and what the ratio of power is to the opposition and the coalition. However, today and all 15, 16 hours of debate will not be lost and the parties will be thrown away, because citizens and citizens will see that we have done everything we know and can do, and that we have highlighted the facts that should be told to every person with a conscience, but something. It always happens this way and above all I see a pattern of how the SMC party does the same piar after the interpretation, let PowerPoint, which then this interpeeled person, the minister, the minister, like the restroom minister, reads. He even reads in such detail that he doesn't even know that Peter wrote him "the thread of today, March 14th," even though we are today 15. And then at the end of this balcony, there's a pierre and a SMC team and a flat. Today, too, we are likely to experience this sad applause of human stupidity and immorality. How to live by the profession, the colleagues from which you came out say that you are the worst minister in the history of Slovenia and you can still sit here and even look at yourself in the mirror at home. How do you survive to have your college colleagues say you've lost your professional and ethical integrity? Some people can, and I'm just wondering what it's worth and what it's worth, because it's probably one very thick reason. I remember the previous term, and I know that the SMC has advocated a rather different moral-ethical attitude at least as far as words are concerned and we leave the actions behind, they are probably different. We need to help each other and encourage ourselves. There's a whole bunch of these pretty words, which bothers me the most, is that the minister here and now is playing the victim and posing as a political accounting beacon. No, Minister, you're not a victim. And then they say we're projecting. Of course, the victim plays the unsub, but the victim is actually a child and a schooling youth. The government of Janez Janša builds a country and, above all, a country that can only be based on obedient, unexamined and terrified people, who then see their only solution in the cult of personality. And here the minister, Mrs. Kustec, is helping him hard. The victim is not a minister. The victim is children with special needs, victims are poor children who do not have a hot meal at home or who do not have such a situation at home so that they can learn from a distance. The victim is those who do not have the internet living in areas of Slovenia, where there is no internet connection and who will have their backlog in education this year is drastic and irreparable. The victim is children who are depressed and some even try to commit suicide. The victim is parents who have neither knowledge nor time nor energy to teach their children at home. The victim is non-governmental, which you have taken away from them in a vehement way, but we know that NGOs care for the most vulnerable groups and that NGOs and NGOs are the pillars of the European Union and some of the criteria by which we judge how democratic a country is. However, on your proposal, Madam Minister, their funding has been reduced or withdrawn. Therefore, 2.20% of GDP in the European Union was allocated to NGOs and 0.73, and we would like to take that away from them. The victim is young artists, musicians who are trained at a distance, dancers, ballet dancers who spin the pirouettes somewhere between the scorpion and the kitchen table, and will never fix the bitter feeling that they could not perform, get a feedback. The victim is an athlete. The victim is parents and educators who did not know Sunday night, whether they should send their children to school on Monday morning or not. Why aren't you a victim? Because you have not followed the professions in any way, because you speak falsehoods and when it is necessary to speak up and defend children, be silent when it is necessary to defend your colleagues who are oppressed by the government of Janez Janša, but speak when it is not necessary. And when you say and swear to follow your conscience, I always will. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u77	Your Honor, I'm sorry to interrupt. Fellow Members on the right, please do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u78	Thank you very much, chairman. Whenever we discuss here, SDS Members speak very loudly and actually try to interfere as much as possible with the debate as possible and also with the mental flow. It's their strategy, because if you're not with us, you're against us, and it's obvious that the minister we're interpreting right now has succumbed to it. As we said many times before - why would a young man go to City Park and not to school? Why can't he go skiing and not to school? You did not answer when Janez Janša de facto led your department, intervened in the autonomy of the Pedagogical Institute, calling for higher education. You didn't pick up. You stopped by when the kids stepped into the street and asked for education. You set the interests of private educational institutions before quality public education. Not to mention controversial personnel and suspected corruption and lobbying. I'm not going to mention your not wearing a mask, because they're going to say you took it off for photography. Just like Minister Logar, who is going while waiting for the result of the test, which showed that he is positive with a covider, in the gallery and there he gives interviews when Minister Kortnik goes to edit the nails while waiting for the results of the test, you do exactly the opposite as you command citizens and citizens. But it is also problematic that the profession and quality of public education actually means nothing to you. There is also a suspicion of corruption under Article 13, paragraph 1, point 1. I am talking about the suspicion of the influence of representatives of the New University, which is very closely linked to the SDS party, for the expected own benefit. In this case, maintaining accreditation in the anti-korona package 6. Then the suspicion of breach of the lobbying provisions, Article 13, paragraph 12, in the draft Law of the CAP6. In short, the participation of lobbyists in the preparation of the proposal has been mentioned, and government representatives have provided ground for the inclusion of the draft article in the law. In its opinion, Article 52 of the PKP 6 also drew attention to the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly and so on. In short, don't tell us to speak emotionally, we have arguments and evidence more than enough. The thing about morality, ethics, on the wings of which Mira Cerar's client once came to this Parliament, is whether you will take all the facts into account or blindly stand on the side of your man. So I'm going to finish here, because I think it's important that we know that election arithmetic is the one that determines which direction the country is going. A young generation, for it stands on the young world, is too important to be able to afford politics. Because what's going on here is politics. What we are told, however, is a warning about unacceptable practices, harmful practices that our researchers, our young generations, will feel not only in the generation of our children, but also in our grandchildren. I don't know how to live with this, but it takes a really hard skin and a big dose of arrogance to overexamine criticism and you're sure you're saved, clean and innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Once again, I would ask my fellow Members, as well as the SDS expert, not to disturb the speaker when he speaks. If they need to talk, they should go out. Thank you very much. Procedural, pardon, motioner, Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I would respond very briefly to Mr Rajić when he spoke about the fact that the Social Democrats took part in or supported the school without disguises, just to clarify exactly what was going on. The Social Democrats have indeed supported the call of directors for a school without masks. However, we have called for measures for schools and schools to shape the profession as a whole. Thus, in the case of epidemiologists, we have also seen teachers, social workers, psychologists and practitioners as necessary experts. True, with a provocative address, we have developed a clear and predictable plan with the inclusion of all. We have fought and are still fighting the decrees from today to tomorrow, which is why we are in the management of the epidemic between the worst in Europe and the world. If we were more likely to be heard in such proposals, we might even be able to have schools without masks today, and so we still have a curfew and are ahead of a wave of bankruptcys, many businesses and so on. And that is the problem that too little has been listened to by the professional and too many decrees by the government or the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, hello again! Much has been said and said, we can say that the interpretation goes somehow as we might have thought it would go, at least according to the answers and views the ministry has. Some members of the coalition always speak when an interpellation or committee is convened on an individual minister, how good a person he is privately. I personally don't care if this person is a private good person or is a bad person, what kind of relationship he has with his friends, today I wonder if the Minister is a good minister and whether she can even be a minister. My opinion is, as far as Minister Simone Kustec is concerned, and as far as I am concerned, her biggest problem is that she is not even aware of what she is doing wrong. She actually believes that what she's doing is doing well. If I believed that something was not doing well, I would have some self-reflection, and I would have fixed those mistakes. In the past, we had ministers who had planned to do something bad. Minister Simona Kustec actually believes that what she is doing is doing well, and this is actually the saddest because she has completely lost touch with reality. Today, he says in his position, this will be a political debate today. Yes, Madam Minister, if you are in the National Assembly, you are a minister, a political figure, and you say that this debate will be political. I don't know what she could be. You've gone to the agenda that your government has actually launched in recent weeks, that even if there is no Marjana Sharca for one year, it will still be Marjan Sarec's fault. Now I will quote you what you said: “What is a fact is that in a certain period we were the worst, not in schools, but in terms of infections that we had in the country and that we did not know how to control because we did not start to control them in time. This was still strong before 13 March 2020." Now, Madam Secretary, let's take a look at some numbers. When you took over the government, you had 179 infected, of which 8 were in nursing homes, dead nothing. The following information, from March 13th to May 31st, is said to be by the end of the first wave of the epidemic, you had a thousand 294 infected, of which 317, in homes for the elderly, the dead 113. You celebrated this as a success, and finally it was a flight of planes, and then it could have been some result that Marjan Sarec left you. From 1. 9 to 13. 3. While there has been no Mariana Sharca for a long time and no one from his team, you have been infected with almost 200,000, of which nearly 12,000 are in homes for the elderly and more than 4 thousand are dead. And you say that Marjan Sarec left you empty warehouses, but after the first wave, statistics show that we were one of the best in the world, and today we have over 4,000 dead. So, one year after that. The government's agenda is that it's all Marjan Sarec's fault or someone else's. Milan Kučana has been mentioned a little less recently because there is already someone else to connect this hard left. It's sad. As far as your actions are concerned. Both the LMŠ and the entire opposition and the professional public gave you an initiative from day to day. As has already been said today, in the LMŠ alone, we have put more than 40 questions on which the professional public also spoke, several initiatives, seven or eight, if I am not mistaken, to the committees on which we have discussed how matters should be resolved. So we wanted a system to be put in place as soon as possible so that children could physically return to classrooms, so to speak, schoolchildren, students, students. But no. The easiest thing to do is to shut it down. On October 12th, you said, Madam Minister, the proportion of people infected in school is 0.6%. That's not a big deal. Two days later, actual Education Minister Janez Janša at the press conference says we're going to close schools. In two days, the picture clearly changed completely in Slovenia. Now that we are all talking about how long we have closed schools in Slovenia, I do not know if you are writing messages on Twitter or who, write down the information that schools are closed in Slovenia from 3 November to 26 January. Then in a minute, a thousand people will tell you that's not true at all. Today we even know that today, March 15, some students returned to school for the first time, and you give information on January 26. Today, Madam Minister, on 15 March, some students went to school for the first time since October. I don't know where you are right now. You're telling me about Austria. We have told you about Austria and their system that units where children with special needs and those who need help can advertise there and provide them with services daily. Did Slovenian schoolchildren, those who were at home, have the possibility that they and their parents could get into a car, drive to these stations where teachers gave them instructions on how to educate themselves? If they did, I'm sorry, but I don't think it was because there were actually none of these things. We've been telling you all along, don't forget the young. Who did we forget in the time of Janshea’s second government when Zuyf arrived? Young people. How many lost generations were there? When we warned you about this – including you, your department represents the young – what did you do for them, except that everyone was home? Have you given students access to workshops, laboratories, where they have to perform a practical part of their studies? Today we are living in a time of health crisis. How did future doctors exercise within the medical faculty, within the university clinical centres? Did they watch heart surgery through Zoom and then operate because they learned it online? In short, Minister, you have lost touch with reality in a terrible way. But we've been alerting you, and you like to rely on research somehow. The Eurostudent survey says that the student needs about 500 euros to survive. For a year now, students can't actually work through student travel. With your help, they got twice 150 euros. So it needs 500 euros a month, and you've given them 300 euros in one year. What can he buy for 300 euros in one year? I don't know. Student homes. We've warned you about this a number of times. The student has a signed lease with the students' homes, and you threw them out. So, students, young people stay there, live there, don't live with their parents anymore, but there's a lot of them permanent residence. You're the one who adopted the decree. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u83	I apologize, Member. Please, let's respect the rules of procedure. We do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. [[advertising from the hall]] . Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u84	That's what we've been warning you about. Then, after a while, you returned something, but the student homes are still empty. And then you say you made sure in the Pecape that students wouldn't have to pay for college homes. Fantastic. Who would pay him if he didn't live there? Your help to young researchers. The Secretary of State, who was responsible for this, you saved him the pain of staying in this government. When you were approached by young researchers who signed contracts, that they had to finish their doctorate by some time, and they reminded you that you closed the museums, that you closed the archives, and that they could not get to the material so that you could finish these things - what did you say to them? I want you to look into it. Young researchers wonder how they will end up, if they will have to pay back money. Instead of giving them a solution, the director of the Directorate there will answer them so that you can look into the matter. I don't know, maybe by 2025, and then they'll get the money. You've blocked admissions to universities. Well, I could also mention things here, but it's really amazing what sort of banal things you were dealing with during the epidemic. But it's interesting that there are always the same people here. Last time I asked you if these were the people who were in the informal group on scientific research, you said no, but you were talking to them. But interestingly, there are the same people who have lobbyed and attended meetings to extend accreditation to selected universities. But what did you guarantee in the Beijings, which was then withdrawn with the amendment? Equalization of general and professional graduations. All the schoolchildren wondered how it was possible for something like this to come to the government. And to the government from specific areas, your ministry proposes. I think all the alarms at the Ministry should be ringing when someone suggests something like that. And even you have accepted this, that it must have been withdrawn by the opposition's amendments. In short, it's that rank you don't care about, dear students, you're gonna have a good grade when 20 teachers called me at that point, and I was wondering what good grades are. You could also talk about changing the terms of Zois' scholarship, which we also warned you about, and not finding a place in Slovenia where five contestants could make an international competition so that I do not lose words about your response to the students' punishment. Even when your students needed you and really needed an encouraging word to support them, you said that this was part of growing up. I don't know which one. Now I would touch the two other ones that you have completely missed, and on which we have also been alerting in the List of Marjan Šarc all the time. The first is children with special needs. Now let's be clear – it's not the Ministry that brought children back with special needs to schools, but it's the Constitutional Court. If we waited for you, we'd probably be home today. They've even been returned twice, but for the first time, you didn't want them back, or you didn't understand the Constitutional Court's decision. Why did we remind you of this group of children in the List of Marjan Šarc and the entire professional public? Because they need a specially adapted implementation of education, because they need professional assistance for successful development, different professional assistance is needed. It is said that the professional public works with them, which is specially educated for this. They also need physical therapy, special treatment. And they didn't have it all. Who now had to do all the things I wrote down? Parents. So the parents were teachers, teachers, special educators, physiotherapists, drivers, they were all in one, and you told them: "Let's hold out, let's go to the finish line." In addition, those who did their best to make the child better also had to pay for physical therapy in such a way that the child did not go back. For these children, socialisation is even more necessary for the progress of each individual. Epidemiologists have also warned you that it would be good for these children to come back. Finally, Dr. Damjan Osredkar, chairman of the Clinical Department for Children, Youth and Development Neurosurgery at the Pediatric Clinic in UKC Ljubljana, wrote in his opinion that children should return to school in some way. But even after the Constitutional Court returned children with special needs to school, two thirds of them were forgotten. It means those who go to primary school and have decisions about dyslexia, about autism. But no, let those people help themselves today as they know them. Your parents called you, they warned you, they almost asked you, but you actually forgot about this group of kids, which is sad. The consequences will be here as long as we lie to each other that there will be no consequences. The second point that we have been alerting Marjan Šarc to is in fact sport. The highest credit for sport is two, as I have already said in my position. The first on Twitter is a greeting card to Slovenian top athletes, and the second is your celebration dinner without a mask. The fact is, you didn't do anything for sport. Nothing. Even if you're talking to sports pedagogists, club representatives, find me one of the club's representatives who will commend you and say you've done something for the good community. There were closed halls, there were closed pools, there were closed gyms. In Slovenia we have sport in different ways. We have professional sport, we have youth categories and we have amateur sport, which is more than intended for the entire population for a healthy lifestyle. High-ranking athletes had problems. Just remember the Ljubljana basketball club, which lost the European game because we were unique in Europe, which we had such rules on testing. As far as youth categories are concerned; young people, I think, if I know correctly about handball, have now played two rounds of championship. They've been locked up for over six months. And they're not machines to keep him locked up in a closet for six months, and then you're gonna say, "Now play 60 minutes of the game." Just ask sports coaches how many more injuries there are, how many contestants have gone back, how many have decided not to train anymore. Here we have lost generations of athletes who will have many years to come. And your answer to one of the questions sent was – train through Zoom. I was immediately approached by a handball coach, and he told me to ask you how to train with a gifted handball goalie, how to throw her naked over Zoom, how to show her how to move. If you can answer that, I think the biggest team, the most famous handball team, will be hiring you as coach today. Because, for the first time, they would save a lot of money, and on the other hand, their athletes would be really great. The consequences are that young people have lost contact with the exercise. They didn't even know when they'd be able to go back to the sports courts. I recently spoke to a friend who asked me how they would complete the football league. By the end of the day, I think 14 rounds -- when are they going to play them? May the championship is closed. When are they gonna finish the league? What are you laughing at, what's funny? That's sad what you guys did in sports. That's not funny. Clubs are falling apart, and you're laughing, and the clubs are getting more and more damaged. But now that we've warned you about society, I'm going to give you an example of one society. Let's say they have 400,000 euros in budget, 200,000 from sponsors. We know that there will be an economic crisis, we know that companies forgive and question how much for sport. 100 grand a year gets from the cards. They can't be viewers for one year, says they're losing the next 100,000 euros. And they get $100,000 from calls because they're doing some good. So all three sources of funding are disabled. That's why I want to know, Madam Minister, where these societies should find the money. You gave them the tests, and after months of warning you, they won't have to pay for the hall. I don't even know if you've already put out an invitation today to forgive them. So you won't tell me I'm talking again. The Faculty of Sport, which is a member of the University of Ljubljana, has already done a study months ago, after which the movement efficiency of Slovenian children fell by 13%. The percentage of children with obesity increased by 20%. Manko is in development, the inaction of the central nervous system and more. In short, I didn't just make that up. These are the data made by experts in this field. You could talk for hours and hours about what you didn't do, but what we're trying to achieve today with this interpretation is that you at the Ministry would start to realize that you've done nothing. You probably won't fall today because the coalition will respect the coalition treaty that, regardless of whether the minister is completely insolvent, they can't vote in favour of his resolution because that's what the coalition agreement says. But perhaps you can go through a coalition agreement and realize for yourself that you may not be fit for this function and resign. Of course, I will support your resolution myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. After all, we are not yet in the middle of the debate, but quite a lot of this has already been said, and much has not been said. I think it's important that we go with the time when we're talking about the epidemic, where it all started. First of all, I have to say that I really listen to the opposition Members, and I get the feeling that they have already gone through the epidemic three times, they have saved not only Slovenia, but the world, so they really have a lot of experience with it, and I am trying to understand with interest what they have done to avoid the epidemic in Slovenia. Also to think about it, there were quite a few debates whether it was political or non-political interpretation and so on. In fact, it doesn't matter whether it's political or non-political, but the fact is, if the SMC had crossed into the KUL Group, this interpretation would not have been, and today probably, the Minister, would have had one of the highest support in this country in the media. But why? You could have it, you should have it because you're doing good, but unfortunately you're not in the KUL Group, and you're not going to experience it. But it seems more important to me what you said was that you were doing your best, and that's what counts. Well, let's go back a little bit. Colleagues and colleagues, on February 19th, before the epidemic broke out somehow, but the situation in Italy had already developed well and Slovenia also knew that it was likely to be similar. On 19 February, a meeting of the Health Committee was convened on the subject of Slovenia's willingness to coronavirus. February 19th, Your Honor! It was then accepted, even though we were in opposition, quite a few conclusions. But these conclusions are important today because they speak of how the then government was prepared for all things. The conclusions were as follows. It is important to report the infected. Thus, no reports of infected persons have been required before. Weeks should be reported on activities related to the fight in the crown virus. The current government did not seem reasonable to report this in any way. Educational centres, hospitals, and nursing homes should be informed of how to act during or when infections occur and how to prevent such infections. Neither did the government have any strategy, as this decision has been adopted. In addition, capacity should be provided for patients with a space-based disease. Your Honor! These were the conclusions of 19. 2. when there was a black screenplay in Italy. What happened? The opposition is extremely responsible and today all-knowing, and then the position has assumed its responsibility by self-dissolved. That was your responsibility. At the most crucial moments for the country, when you were required to act, although too late, but better than never, you yourself have let go. And today you see the activities and actions of those who have taken responsibility and said that something has to be done, helping citizens and citizens, working and not thinking about how we will share different positions. Now, perhaps also because of what the SD co-proposer is, it may be good to take a little look at the comparison with the minister who served until this government. That's Mr. Pikalo. In fact, he served as minister in a peaceful, comfortable time at the time. There was no crisis, even less health crisis. And what are his results? The promised white book doesn't even cover it. In a year and a half, not even a pair of sheets. He has never done any reflection or analysis on what we need in education programmes for the needs of the economy and the profession where manko is. That wasn't there. Everything was fine. The kids were sick. Interesting, but he was named as a traveling minister. I don't know, I never mind those who travel and bring good practice, but I've never seen these practices on any paper, any marriage. I don't know, from Tokyo. I would be very happy if you could tell us how they are facing various crises there. For comparison, maybe for citizens, but, you know, it's not such a trivial thing. Mr Pikalo spent 30,000 euros on travel expenses alone. For travel expenses. Oh, Minister Kusteceva, you've been very expensive. You've spent an entire amount of €219. With his business card, Mr Pikalo spent 4 thousand 300 euros. What's on the list? Hotel services were paid in Brussels, New York, London, Tokyo, Paris, as much as €870 in London. In short, he spent 4,000 300 euros on his business card. An effective minister. Yes, Mrs Kustecheva, but you are ineffective because you have spent only EUR 243 and you felt you needed to be home and save things than to walk around. Calm down, calm down. All I'm saying is data. And it's right that people hear about them. You've read to the minister that he doesn't get to meet and that he doesn't listen to all sorts of professional workers, administrators and so on. Look at the fragment! During a completely peaceful ministry, it was reported to Mr Pical that he was not sitting at the same table with the directors, parents, teachers and publishers. What, though, did he struggle with because he had so many responsibilities? Probably by getting the plane back from Tokyo. With a petition, 22,000 people demanded a change in the school system or some renovation. Yeah, and he promised the white book. I wish I could see the cover. Now perhaps because you're talking about the Secretary's irresponsibility, I'm the worst one that Mr. Pikalo has ever given me. He settled with Mayor Šmarj at Jelšah because he dared to close the school. Can you imagine? There were infections. We know what happened then. And that was the minister who objected to the closing of the school. Today you are talking about how the first wave was successful in fighting the Coronavirus. Yes, because they were responsible individuals. Because they didn't listen to the stupidity of the individual ministers who said the school shouldn't close, even though the virus had already devastated. And these are the results of your minister. There was also a lot of talk today about children’s lack of a warm meal. Let's get back to history here, too. When our government was ours, we also introduced a free hot meal for the students. Do you know who cut him off? Luksic, Minister of SD. I'm hearing from you today that kids don't have a hot meal. But in the PKP, we made sure that the children received a warm meal. But when they're in school, they've had subsidized food for years. I'm hearing that distance education doesn't replace what's in class. Of course not. Has anyone ever said that? Did the Coronavirus come up with a minister? Do you think it wouldn't be much easier if we didn't have this health crisis and the kids could be in school? That's stupid. Today you are discussing as if she is responsible for the minister's coronavirus and that she is closing schools on her own fist because she feels so good and good. And who can imagine, for you did not rule when the crown was at its peak, what responsibility does an individual bear when he has to make such important decisions when he weighs on one side between health and life and on the other hand, whether he is a distance education or a school bench? You think these are simple decisions? Today you're interpolating people who are trying to do the best they can in a given situation. By showing you a comparison of those who ruled in peaceful times. And the results are well known. Come in. You were talking about the government stopping the calls. That's not true. In a short time, a thought was made. And what did he bring to future students? More places to sign in. But we spent years talking about lack of health care — and who has prepared something? This is what this government has done, and we will have 50 more doctors in this country. Do you think you can actually write this as an obvious? Ask the students who are happy, who may want this profession, but they were afraid because the admission is very demanding in these colleges. 50 will have more cities. I hope we have 50 doctors on this account in the future. And I want to think about it more, because this country needs it. Now, something about the so-called sentences of the students. I have to get involved here because I think it's all been shown very unilaterally. You were talking about the students and the students' sentences. In Slovenia we have about 74,000 students and students. All these students and students were invited to participate in the survey. Do you know what the question was? Or is it about opening schools? Yeah, well, who wouldn't be up for the school opening?Oh, my God! But look, 17 thousand, 20 percent responded. Nine thousand of those who said yes, we go to school. That's 12% of all students. Who protested that day, I don't know, I didn't follow that. However, I followed my son, who is also in his fourth year and is preparing for a graduation, but who has allowed himself to write a tweet that he will be away from school because it is important to him that he takes all the measures so that he can see as soon as possible a grandmother who has not seen him for almost six months and that he will not accidentally be the one who infects any of the locals. Never, interestingly, complained of a distance lesson. On the other hand, he regularly accompanied those who were ill, or even those friends who lost their grandparents. Well, interesting. Today you're talking about how some of the students are, I don't know why they got payment orders -- see, that's what the organs are for -- but that's how you magnified these students. What, though, about those who were in school who were aware of the need for action? Did you mention them today? But they're second-rate because they respect action. And there were a lot more, you know? I don't mind everyone protesting in their own way and saying what's wrong, but not talking about the crowd and that it was generally true for everyone, because it wasn't exactly the same. By means of various messages in one way or another, you can show your disagreement. Absolutely, once again, it is good that teaching could always be the way it was, but there has been a coronary crisis and some measures have to be taken. But only so much more because you also talked about your children, well, and when he said he wanted to be at school because he wanted to really get back in the school bench as soon as possible for the whole time, he got the answer that parents had to visit the social work center. So much for culture and where we came from. I've also heard that it's not the same thing that teachers teach differently when it comes to distance learning, that some have videos, some just send them. I agree. But that's what learning is all about. I can only say from my own experience that some teachers in this way, others in a different way, supply the substance. Even behind school benches, from class to class, it's different. So I can't agree with that here. You said it was a lost generation. I can't agree with that. My father was a baby when it was World War II, they killed his mother, they took his father to Dachau. When the war ended, he was four years old. He never said it was a lost generation. Even those who were slightly older never said they were a lost generation. But they were a different generation. They learned a lot, and then they changed a lot in their lives. I believe in these young people too. They're not a lost generation. They're a different generation. I believe that by solidarity and with other values they will recognize things that may have been written now, but we have not lived them. Mrs. Kustec, I don't know, not only do I see no reason for your interpretation, but there's just no point. Schools are closed elsewhere, and no one wanted them. We know how the epidemic started, we know what happened to the previous government, we know what measures you're taking. I'd like to make a change myself a little differently, but that's the way it is. And to the end. 12. 1. 2021, D.C. These are the students you say are opposed to the minister. This is their statement, part of the statement: "We welcome at the Diagnostic Organisation all the plans adopted that accurately set out the release of current government measures in all areas, particularly those concerning the secondary education process." That's the students' opinion. So, respectable, all I see here is actually stealing too much time to focus on the future, including in the area of education and education, because we have a lot of work to do. And you know, just for the end of one sentence, I'm not going to help you keep on dealing with what kind of kindergartens are with concessions that are without concessions, let's deal with the quality of programs. Let us act with the quality of the programmes and believe me that there will be no more such questions. But it takes hard work and more than a few words of action. Let me conclude here and maybe just a little joke, but a lot of truth. Yes, children in Kamnik will not be able to return to their new elementary school. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u87	Thank you very much for this debate. Let me just warn all further debaters, Mrs Anje Bah Žibert, I did not want to disturb her red or her discussion, but the travel costs, the number of trips abroad, Mr Pikalo or Mr Lukšič are not the subject of today's interpretation, so I ask that all further debaters stick to the topics of today's interpretation and the readings from it. Now he's signed up for the word first. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, if you have a proposal regarding the procedure and use of the Rules of Procedure, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I really went to the widest, presidency, I don't have a problem with warning me, but payment orders aren't part of the interpolation, because that came after the interpolation, and today we've been listening to it, so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u89	What is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u90	My procedural proposal is that if others go wider, you have to let others go wider. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u91	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, I left you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u92	Let's not deal with the color of politics, but, given what someone's talking about. [[…]] Most of the time, I was just answering.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u93	Okay, I understand your procedural proposal, which was very borderline, but okay. I take note, but it is true that I began to conduct this meeting during the debate 20 minutes ago and you were the only debater during my time of management. Let us talk to the other vice-presidents, if you also have comments on the direction of the debate that has gone on today. I think we can all be so right that we stick to the interpretation points. Now we can continue the debate. No, it is not you, Mr Montenegro, because Mr Proposer has applied. Mag. Koprivc, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. Although I strongly agree with what you have just warned me. In fact, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert used a large part of the debate to attack or criticise the former minister, who was not part of the interpretation hearing while trying to blacken Minister Pikal with misleading data. And let me just take a moment to respond to that, really briefly, in one minute. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, see, this comparison of how much money he spent on Pikalo's business routes and how much Minister Kustec is completely out of place. It's completely out of place because there's been no work trips in the last year, and you know it. And I don't want to defend him or even go where he was, where he wasn't. But we can make a comparison, I found it quickly now, and among it between Minister Restoration, who spent almost once more money on business trips. But it's unfair and unfair that you do this comparison that way, and you take it from the enemy trumpet SDS Novi24. That's why you had to say it because it was published there today. But I really don't want to divert the debate to other subjects. This year was €400. The secretary told you. Was she anywhere? After all, all international activities have been cancelled due to coronaryism. As for the activities carried out in the previous mandate, I have already said in the introduction that a number of laws, when introduced during the current Minister Simone Kustec, were prepared during the previous term. And that's all she could say in her opening response to interpolation. Let us talk about the law on kindergartens, which was only partially introduced. The part that doesn't fit the right of Slovenia was released. Let me talk about the law on children with emotional and behavioural disorders, not to mention a roof law in the field of science that has not been introduced. And we don't know why he wasn't put in, but Minister Pikalo led him to the end. Last January, the law was prepared for submission presented in the National Assembly by all parliamentary groups, coalitions and opposition groups, and it received a green light at the Science and Technology Council. And to this day, the law has not been sent to the hearing. Therefore, together with the democratic opposition, the Social Democrats and I tabled this law a few days ago. Not to mention that in the previous term we have prepared all the necessary documentation for the start of the construction of NUK 2 and many other things. It is unfair that you are now abusing your debates, trying with some half-truths or even lying to the former minister. These comparisons with New24 are ridiculous and absurd. How much money he spent on business trips last year, how much was spent this year. If not otherwise, we know that last year the Council of Ministers held regular meetings in Brussels, and this year it is not or is far away. That's how the whole world works, because there are virtually no airline connections, and now you're comparing what happened then and what it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that Mr Koprivc did not listen to me well, it was probably too much for him. Look, I said I don't see any trouble traveling, but I don't mind if there's no effect. I didn't see any added value on his trip to New York, Tokyo, Paris, London and so on. But he promised in the beginning to prepare a white book, but we didn't see the canvasses either, because nothing was ready. And that's what he promised at the Ministry's performance. Yes, there are many differences between the former minister and the current minister. Even in the fact that the current minister does not have a secretary of state who gives us merry Christmas in dirty animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u97	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, this goes beyond your replica and please stick to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u98	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u99	We're not talking about the previous secretaries, we're talking about the current secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u100	She doesn't have a problem with mobile phones either, so her employees don't miss her. So, yeah, obviously there's a big difference, but unfortunately Kustecheva is being intertwined today because you're not in the KUL Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u101	Thank you for this intervention that wasn't a replica. We continue the debate. Mr. Andrej Chernigoy now has the word, prepare the mags. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u102	Madam President, thank you for your words and your attention. Dear Minister Simona Kustec, distinguished Secretary of State, esteemed colleague and colleague! When I spend hours and hours with you in this esteemed assembly day after day, I feel that the invisible enemy covid-19 exists only in our love and the most beautiful Dalmatian country of Slovenia. That this brutal virus was created here and that it does not want to leave because of ourselves, not because of the characteristics of the virus itself that we have not yet faced in human history. At least that's how some on the left side of this hall want to convince us. If I could, I'd take this heavy burden of fighting a new virus on my own, and I believe the Minister would do the same. But we are all aware that, unfortunately, no one in this room has such super powers. The situation in neighbouring countries, the Member States of the European Union, in countries around the world, let's face it, it's not pink. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are no magic wands, but there is a common effort for a better tomorrow, which is based on – because of the master's exercise, I will repeat – in a consistent respect of the NIJ measures, this is a contamination of the deadlines, distances, as you remember, masks and ventilation, greater overinfection and never-ending vaccination. Let me remind the gathered here of the serious situation very close to us, in the Czech Republic, Austria, Italy, that we are not talking about the situation across the ocean, in North and South America and in the African continent at all. Let me give you the full support in this place, Madam Minister. I know that you are a consistent and just person, always ready for dialogue and finding the best solutions. Those who work, especially in these critical times, also sin. With you, I particularly appreciate the fact that you acknowledge the error, apologize for it and further improve your performance. Let me reassure you in this place, because you are not the only one who has done something wrong, and I have done something inadvertently, like every individual in this room. That is probably what those who are sinless on their conscience tell you. If we believe that, I don't. Let me remind you here of the action of a union leader, who with a can, very little, political agitation, I can't put it any other way, invited teachers to resist rapid testing. In this way, he wanted to prevent children from returning to school personally. He won the minds of teachers, parents and children, whose efforts were not an obstacle, but a necessary, necessary evil in the fight against an invisible enemy to hope young Slovenian hopes return to schools and kindergartens as soon as possible. Moreover, the gentleman did not show a hint of regret for his words, but only disappeared from the media lights for a while. That's enough for an introduction. Let us return to your interpretation, which is the legitimate tool of the opposition. The intervention against you, our Minister, Janez Cigler King and Minister Vasko Simoniti was only a tool for the artificial creation of pressure due to the constructive mistrust of the entire government. As this floated through the water, all three interpolations lost their true purpose, purpose, and, as a result, their zeal. None of us imagined a year ago that we would have to wear masks in our daily lives, except that the invisible enemy would virtually stop our very active life. Schools, kindergartens, and all of us were locked in so - called bubbles inside the home or working environment. I am aware of the limitations of distance education, but sincere congratulations, Madam Minister, that you have only established distance education within two weeks without any experience from the past. Let me also express my sincere thanks to the Academic and Research Network of Slovenia, the other we know briefly by Arnes, who has provided a technical platform for distance education or so-called singing online classrooms. Of course, thanks are also given to teachers and all those who have courageously coped with the new and difficult situation of distance learning. In particular, I would like to commend their innovation in this work. The Minister, whose work in the school environment is not foreign, conducted a wide range of dialogue with different stakeholders, the Association of Directors and Directors, universities, representatives of the Association of Active Parents of Slovenia, the community of municipalities, various institutes, representatives of student and student organisations and could also list. However, we must also be aware in this esteemed hall that it is pleasing to scream in schools without masks, to close at the latest, to open first. Masquerade in the National Assembly – how could some throw masks in this space for YouTube clicks? Did they admit this mistake? I appreciate the opinion of each individual, but I expect those individuals to have upright attitude and action when they have scissors and canvas in their hands, not to run away from the responsibility of some political parties, including those of supra-coalities. I am concerned about the work of the opposition, which in foreign, perhaps more mature, democracy has not felt that, with the kind of statements presented as caring for our youngest, they are fighting the battle for power and trying to turn the public to their advantage. Although we live in times that present a great challenge to all of us, the Minister did not act. She has introduced a great deal of news, which I also welcome. One such is advice for students from a distance. Thank you, Minister, for understanding the specificity of education of children with special needs and work in two CIRIUS institutions and could still be listed. The Minister also provided an additional EUR 88 million with a financial plan for the smooth functioning of institutions, institutions. The funding for the science research activity increased by almost €39 million in 2020, 16 per cent in 2019 and 40 million in 2020, a good 14 per cent in 2020. Resources for education and education and sports are increasing. In 2020, the funds increased by EUR 100 million and in 2021 by EUR 134 million. And we could list it. Today, the most common observation, which is also mentioned in the interpretation itself, that we have the longest period of school closure in Slovenia, places on a lie a very professional research task of the research and documentation department of the National Assembly. I also have a copy here copied, sprinted, if anyone wants, I can lend him a copy, he can check the numbers. Most of the countries reviewed closed all educational institutions, including kindergartens, due to the expansion of the covida-19 pandemic in March 2020. But I understand parents who, while working virtually all day, find it difficult to devote extra time to helping their children learn from a distance. I really need to thank my wife here, who has taken full care of our child’s education at home, for which I am truly grateful. However, as I see from this study, if we go a little look, in the countries of Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania schools have been closed for longer than in Slovenia, so I wonder who is misleading here. Colleagues and colleagues on the left, will you again accuse those who have prepared this study, as you have defamed the employees of the Ministry who have helped prepare the necessary bakeries? Let me say here that I support the Minister's work, so I will vote against her interpretation. I believe that the Minister has worked all the time for the welfare of children and young people and has taken care of her team to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, which could be significantly more drastic. If I am allowed to end only one of my own intermezza, it is worth more to me a life saved by various measures than knowing that I am possibly directly responsible for the spread of an invisible enemy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Tashner Vatovec, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u104	I will be brief because several coalition members have already explained how cultural budgets went up for education, and I would like to remind you of Jozet Tank's tweet a few days ago, so just be consistent with this quote. The individual ministers didn't raise budgets, but, according to Joze Tanko, the boss did. So at least let me take that into account. It is clear that the budget has risen if we have received anti-coron injections and all the budgets have gone up. We all know that. It's no secret. But the question is, what does this money do? I think that this should not be a debate at all about how difficult individual budgets are. I don't know what this has to do with the success of individual measures. Look, distance school is something to be faced with, but too long a distance schooling has its consequences. And that's what I insist on, or that's our point of view, but not that, I don't know, it was too low a budget in the area of Mišš. This is not an indicator in this case, as it also does not show up according to the results and warnings of the profession in specific effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mr. Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Thank you for those words, because you actually agreed with me about the increase in funds. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u107	Mr Černigoj, this is not a replica, because you should explain in the replica what you were misunderstood in, without what Mr President agreed with you. But okay. Dr. Tashner Vatovec wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u108	I'm glad we agree in this national assembly. Sometimes this is necessary, but we still disagree that this has nothing to do with what you said. Unfortunately, the level of the budget in this case does not refer to what measures are actually like. We know that a lot of this money has also been spent on some other things that are not directly related to implementation, technically, of this teaching. Of course, something has also been invested in this, but what we claim and unfortunately is the result of this one year of the coronary crisis and the crisis of the Mišš, is simply an underrealisation of what should be done in the field of education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Meira Hot has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Matey Udowicz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, a nice greeting in my name too! “The Minister’s political responsibility is a special form of responsibility which can be exercised either individually or in conjunction with legal, moral and other forms of responsibility. The Minister's political responsibility is characterised by the fact that it can be subjective or objective.” I have quoted the words of your former President, Mr Mir Cerar, Madam Secretary-General. So much to remind you where you started and where you are today. You started off on some supposedly ethical, moral basis. Today, you are absolutely, both subjectively and objectively responsible for completely unacceptable treatment of the most vulnerable population in this country: for children, adolescents, students, students, i.e. for young people. We all like to say that on the young world. In Slovenia, the world for young people has stopped. Life stopped for them, they were plunged into severe mental distress, depression, loneliness, hunger, severe poverty. And what did they expect from you? To enable them to exercise their fundamental right – their right to education and to protect them. Therefore, they were willing to take full responsibility and even to exercise their fundamental constitutional right at a time when it was a little dangerous and the police could come after you if you accidentally decided to protest peacefully. And that's just so that you can hear them from your side of the story. I, Madam Minister, would absolutely not have hoped to look me in the eye, and this statement of yours today just shows that you have really lost contact with the real world completely. Especially would I hope to look them in the eye after you have completely shamelessly questioned their appeal to return to education and your request to return to school. And then when they were punished, contrary to the Constitution, instead of stepping into their defense, no, you stood in front of the cameras and calmly said that it was their ticket to adulthood and that you expected them to take responsibility. I'm seriously asking you right now, you've completely lost touch with reality. Children ask you to step into their defense, to understand them, to enable them to do what you and only you are responsible for, and you shamelessly tell them to take responsibility for themselves. I think they've had it a long time, respectable. They took responsibility for their future. When will you be? When will you assume the responsibility to play quietly with the future of the most vulnerable groups? To send them to school one day, then two days later, hop, not now. This is how it happened to the coastal-Kraška region. In my opinion, it all reminds us of some scientific experiment, some kind of endurance test, like testing the limits of a capable one. And I really think that's enough. Not to mention the responsibility for direct discrimination against the most vulnerable group in this already vulnerable population. We're talking about educating children with special needs. So discrimination against different groups of children with special needs. Since March, we have warned many Members that this vulnerable population group needs to be treated differently, that they need special care, in particular treatment, that the harmful consequences it causes can, in fact, be much worse, alerted against the second wave that it is necessary to adapt measures to that group and to treat them differently. In fact, the frightening consequences of distance education are for children with special needs, as many adjustments have been completely impossible for them and the backlogs in education and development are irreplaceable, irreplaceable. You should by no means allow primary schools for children with special needs to be closed down or closed for so long because the consequences for these children are permanent. They are persistent and disproportionately worse than those resulting from the opening of schools for students with special needs. Finally, the highest court in this country, the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 3 December on the constitutionality of the Decree on the Temporary Prohibition of the Collection of Persons in Institutions of Education and Education and Universities and Independent Higher Education Institutions, argued that the closure of schools for children with special needs had much greater consequences than for other children. In addition to the finding that the closure of schools, including schools for children with special needs, was not legally valid at all, it was not legal at all, as you are also responsible as the competent minister, they also submitted a content opinion and incentives to children aged 7 and 9 who attend primary school for children with special needs, stated that, and now I quote, “the absence of such work can affect their development, especially if these measures last longer than in the present case. In addition, as a result of the closure of educational establishments, these children are deprived of all the special treatments they receive in these institutions, thereby also causing them harm. However, it cannot be denied that the consequences of such a long-term education for individual children with special needs can be difficult to correct." End of quote. It should be pointed out that it is also clear from that decision of the Constitutional Court that the closure of schools for children with special needs cannot significantly improve the epidemiological picture in the country. Madam Minister, in every legal and democratic country, after such a decision by the Constitutional Court, a competent minister would have assumed an objective responsibility. Although in this case you have an absolute and subjective responsibility, because you have been warned of the harmful consequences in time but have not responded. In short, the minister would take responsibility and step down immediately. No, you, your ministry, take a different path again, to me personally very unethical and immoral. You have thus taken up a very narrow interpretation of that decision after that intervention by the Constitutional Court and allowed only those children with special needs who attend institutions for children with special needs and elementary schools with an adapted programme, which means that out of about 13,000 primary school children with guidance decisions only about 4 000 700 have returned to the educational process – only 4 000 700, everyone else is still at home or sharing fate with other students of the regular primary school programmes. This is absolutely embarrassing, Madam Minister. And again, I wonder, really, where do you find the confidence that today you say peacefully that you can look everyone in peace when a large group of particularly vulnerable groups of children who, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, have peacefully prevented them from studying. I really don't understand how you can peacefully defend such harmful, abject decisions, really not. Do you even know that in a group of children with special needs who were not provided with education immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court, and which is the largest, it is scientifically proven that the excessive use of information technology can cause significant harm to them? Do you know that with your insistence on distance learning, these children have not received additional professional assistance in live and elsewhere since March, through a decision prescribed, adjustment, which negatively affects their knowledge, inclusion and possible behavioural, emotional deficits? Do you know that many of the children in this group make a daily developmental setback despite the unimaginable efforts their parents, caregivers, or other relatives put into distance schooling? You and your ministry have not addressed any incentives or measures to them and their parents, but when opening schools and institutions for children with special needs you have peacefully overlooked them and not included them in the educational process in the same way as all children with special needs not only bypassed the Constitutional Court's decision, you have directly discriminated against these children and placed them in an unequal position, which is absolutely illegal and prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Madam Minister, this is only a small part of your action, which shows absolutely unacceptable conduct and unequivocal political responsibility. You have acted unequivocally against the Constitution, acting irresponsibly and unethically. For my terms you are absolutely subjective and objectively responsible for the situation we are facing today, and therefore the interpretation against you is absolutely and unequivocally justified and justified and at this point I place on your soul that today before the vote you still have the opportunity to keep your face and to withdraw yourself. To see yourself, you take responsibility for your actions. And don't laugh because it's really not appropriate. I really urge you to hear what I'm saying and not to laugh when I put such things on your soul. Very irresponsible to the end, but obviously you won't look at yourself. Right now, this reaction of yours is pointing to it. You were passive when you were supposed to be active. So be active today, and step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would very kindly ask the Minister, too, but you are guests in this house and do not mock individual debates because it is not right. Mrs Škrnjar, please refrain a little while from yelling over the hall, because this is not appropriate either. We're moving on. Mrs Mateja Udovč has the floor, Mr Jura Ferrjan is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, one good day! First of all, I'd like to warn you that the minister is wearing a mask and that he has every honour in knowing what's going on in the mask. The mask is blue, so it's not clear and it's not actually visible through it, only to fellow students and colleagues in a lesson here on the right, and maybe on the left, they're already talking, maybe they're laughing, and I can't see it myself. So that we don't just talk bad about our minister today. I respect her as a minister. I respect her because she's done a lot for Gorenjska, much more than any minister before her. We received three school programs in Gorenjska, which she confirmed and approved. This is a great benefit for Gorenja and I believe he will stay. Indeed, it approved three school programmes at a time when schools were closed, but this does not mean that school programmes will start in January this year, but on September 1st, when we hope that the epidemiological picture will be much better and more favourable. That citizens and citizens know how important it is to get a school programme, and that this is not just overnight, that there must be good arguments, professional arguments that this programme is justified, means that they have been competing for this programme in Ormož for 12 years, but they have not approved it. And for health care, not for high school, and no previous minister has ever approved it. For a profession that's very much wanted. Therefore, the distinguished Minister, thank you for working for our children, for working for our people and opening programs where our children can not only be educated, but also actually work. That the Minister is doing well is also an indication that we have adopted a law in the National Assembly this year that has strengthened the conditions for the guardians of our children and thus prevented us from repeating another story about the Kangaroos. Not to mention that children, other children and all other children will also have free kindergarten, but I believe that many would also say from citizens and citizens that this is just a populist move by the current government. You know, everything that the current government does, it's populism, everything that any other government does, it's justice, or it's good for people. Although I wonder what is really true, and perhaps I would just continue in this direction, whatever this government would have done, is wrong. And I will only tell you one case on our Members. If Members do not have the advantage of vaccination, they say this is because we do not trust the vaccine. When we give Members the advantage of vaccination, they say, but now they are not justified because they will take away the vaccine from someone who is in a more vulnerable group. It's the same with the secretary. Nice to meet you. The same was true of decisions when the minister had to decide whether or not to close the schools. We blame her today because the kids had to learn from a distance. How could they blame her if the school secretary opened up the teachers so that they could not teach our children? And don't let the epidemic spread so that children can carry the infection to their families that their parents, their parents, would get sick. And God forbid any other family member should die for it. What would you have said then? Today, whether it was right or wrong, look, in every war, someone has to decide once what he will do. What decisions have been made, but they can only be judged after the war has ended. In cooperation, respect and integration is our strength. As soon as we are aware of all this, we will be more successful in overcoming the pandemic and in our work, in our work together. I cannot help but feel that we are all too busy fighting the measures taken by the government to contain the pandemic. Doing everything we can to replace the government, but we're not doing enough to fight the epidemic ourselves. If this relationship were to be reversed, the health picture in Slovenia would probably be significantly better and certainly significantly different, and children would also be essential in school, significantly earlier. I too am personally disturbed by certain restrictions imposed by government measures in this area. However, if this is a tax that we have to pay for the infestation and elimination of this virus, then I am also willing to tolerate and endure these restrictions myself. It is true that there are similar measures in different countries, but they are taken at different times and with different dimensions of time. In particular, they depend on the epidemic situation in certain areas or in certain countries. So it's not like it's some kind of alien of our government. Of course, distance education is one of them. Whether we have taken this measure too soon or too late, I do not think this should really be a question right now. Now we're all smart generals. It seems to me that the right question is whether teachers, school management, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have done exactly what was necessary to carry out the quality education in the distance, how much expected knowledge has been acquired by the students in this way of teaching, how will we get back to normal in this area as soon as possible, and, of course, what is most important, how will teachers help students to acquire the necessary knowledge as soon as possible. These are the questions that we should discuss today. Once school is back to normal, it is not enough for teachers to simply demand and evaluate a certain level of knowledge prescribed in the curriculum, but they will also have to help them. Only at the end of this school year will we be able to assess the degree of deviation from the expected knowledge, and then we will be able to assess the relevance of distance school-related measures and, consequently, the responsibility of Minister Simone Kustec. Although the interpellation of ministers is perfectly legitimate and legal, the tools of the opposition must in fact all be found together to be completely at the wrong time, in this case only political accounting with the current government and the Modern Centre Party and with our current Minister. Instead of working with the Minister and the Ministry of Field Affairs during this sensitive and crisis period to take measures to bring about the normalisation as soon as possible in this area, the entire expert team should be involved in interpolation. We Members could also use this time more usefully for another important work that awaits us in the area of the adoption of emergency legislation. But as I say, it's a legitimate move by the opposition. As I have said many times, the paths to the goal are different. This one's one of them, too. Infinite takeover, speechless, without the ultimate successful epilogue. It's already been heard. Promises of promises that never come true. However, if we are already here and we are discussing this issue, let us be constructive, make a stalemate, find out what measures bring solutions and which needs to be corrected, supplemented or improved to help our children and to ensure normal education again. But not just bombardment and some hypothetical consequences of the measures and so on. Education, education of children is not only the domain of the Minister, the Ministry and the schools themselves. This is the domain of all of us. That is why we must all do our utmost to make our school even better than it has ever been. When you so conscientiously and dramatically state the reasons for the Minister's intervention, you avoid certain important facts that the Minister is talking about. In particular, I am referring to the establishment of a system for distance learning. This system was built and started to work in record time. The necessary information infrastructure has been established, teachers, students, parents have been trained. Of course, there have been and still some problems, but the Ministry of Professional Services has acted quickly and effectively. In normal circumstances, this system would not be established in decades. You know how this works, projects on projects and so on. We cannot and must not forget the knowledge that all of the above have acquired — from teachers to students. This system of teaching on a certain scale and in certain areas is also the future in our modern education, in the coming future. This does not mean that we are going to be educated remotely, but it is only right that we strive for change. I also have long-distance education because I have two compulsory children at home. In doing so, I must make it clear that there have been some problems at first, but there has never been resistance on their part. Perhaps there have been many more problems on my part and on the part of my parents and teachers themselves who did not have the affinities to this way of teaching than with the disciples. I had much greater concern for myself because teachers taught distance lessons so differently. Some had exemplary videoconferences, and some, unfortunately, sent out Sunday evening what they had to do all week. And during a period of time, the children had a one - hour - and - a - half - day education. And that's what worried me as a parent. My kids, I'm sorry, they weren't worried, they were actually happy. But, you know, these things can't be prevented by a minister. It's a matter of the teacher and his autonomy. True, ministers can set a certain course of action. But how a teacher will teach in a classroom is the complete autonomy of a teacher. Once again, I urge you to use this time we have today as a common fight against the virus, the epidemic, and to find common good solutions, not for the mutual infertility of political accounting. At this point, I must point out that I also advocate that students, students and students publicly express their views in the current framework of performance and behaviour. However, I am determined against any manipulation of these categories in order to achieve any political objectives. I believe that perhaps the Minister would have made a different decision at some point than she did if she had known how the situation would proceed. After the epidemic has ended, there will be plenty of time for reckoning, accounting, political responsibility and reward or non-reward by the electorate. Now is the time to take part in the fight against this competent virus, which has changed life not only in Slovenia but everywhere. I think we must at least prove at this point that we are serious politicians and that we are aware of our responsibility for the situation in our beautiful country. In view of all the above, of course I will vote against the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Jura Ferrjan, Mr Sonibo Prince is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u114	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister and other guests! Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, all those who accompany us are most warmly greeted! It is undeniable that despite the epidemic, the educational process in Slovenia has not stopped despite the pandemic. Public life has also stopped over a period of time, and the educational process has not stopped, has taken place and is continuing. Of course, we cannot compare the educational process to a distance with the educational process, as we have been trained for decades before. We cannot compare them because they are not the same, and we cannot compare them because they have different advantages and because they also have different shortcomings. It is also a fact that after a year or more of an epidemic and various measures, each individual will certainly have this sociological, social aspect, a desire to socialize and so on. We have certainly all made great sacrifices and limited contacts and, of course, consistently and consistently followed measures. I'm sure that's what most of us did. Of course, after all this time there is desire and this aspect of the place, of course it is also present. And it is certainly also a fact that not only all of us sitting in this Chamber, but in fact all of the Slovenians, Europeans want to get to normal as soon as possible. But this path to normality is on track to follow the recommendations of the profession, to take into account the government's actions, which are based on the actual epidemiological picture and, of course, also to achieve adequate transcription as soon as possible. And here is another key step where the responsibility of each of us in society will appear in the most important light, and we can also say in terms of solidarity, because vaccination will not only protect ourselves, our loved ones, but also those we talk about today, that is, our children and those who are the most vulnerable, the weak ones in our society. Also from today's debate, the left opposition has many political points, the current government works and helps people and is aware of the consequences of the wrong action, aware of the consequences of such calls, which are also one of the reasons why Slovenian schools had to close. The result was, of course, an increasing number of infections. And many other things, the throwing of masks also in this hall, even in this national assembly. The Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has placed the health and safety of our children, our teachers, all who participate in the educational process. And it's not just kids and teachers, it's a lot of them. The fact that the government has put health and safety first is crucial, for all things can be compensated for, lost lives — each precious — unfortunately not. From this, I would like to continue with the quote that was given today, and there will be some more of these quotations in the debate below. This is what the proposalr said: “The students have shown courage and responsibility”. Here. The students have shown courage and responsibility. But not those who protested, but the vast majority who stayed at home and continued with the educational process. They showed courage and responsibility. I'm not going to argue about punishment, about measures, and so on, but I'm going to ask myself, and each one of us can ask what happens if you cross the road the wrong way. What happens if you park a car wrong, what happens if you commit a traffic accident and you're stopped by a police officer. What's going on? You get a ticket. And if it was sometimes so, if some of you are still used to saying yes, but I'm not, but I'm that, and I'm that, and I'm the third, and I'm down. You know, in the independent and independent democratic Republic of Slovenia, laws must be laws and laws are the same for everyone. It is right before the law that we are all treated equally. And, of course, it should be decided by the competent institutions. It's also interesting what we've been monitoring, but maybe not so interesting, some other word would be more appropriate, but in recent months we've been monitoring a number of stories about children, how hungry children are, and today we've even heard that some children have an excessive weight. We also read at the Slovenian Press Agency that children, because they don't go to school, will forget how it is with the equipment. When you click on an article, you find that it is not about the situation in Slovenia, but abroad, but the address was very misleading and many people do not read any more of the title and see the opening picture. So I find it really inappropriate to use the most vulnerable, to use children for some political struggle, to overthrow the government, to oppose measures and so on. That's inappropriate. And this also proved to be true in various protests, and then it turned out a few weeks after the numbers grew there, when the epidemiological picture deteriorated significantly. I'm going to point out here that there won't be any further misunderstandings. I am aware that during the epidemic a number of hardships have arisen and that some of the hardships that occurred prior to the epidemic have further deepened. But I think we all realize that these pressures were before the epidemic, they're during the epidemic, and unfortunately they'll remain after the epidemic. However, I am sure that these pressures are significantly less due to the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the measures taken in the National Assembly, eight anti-Korona packages, several billion euros that went directly to the people who went to the Slovenian economy, and more than 76 million euros went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. Here you can, if the camera approaches, look specifically at who the money was intended for, the realisation in 2020, last year, and the realisation in 2021. I think the data is by March 12th this year. It's been done a lot. And those who now say what should have been done, what was wrong, were when the time came when you might have to step into the big shoes, when something had to be done, threw the rifle into the corn, fled, and then naged. Another important piece of information, I didn't think of that. Weeks ago, in the National Assembly, we had this very interesting, very interesting, professional lecture or presentation of what was actually going on in the last few months. From that, it was clearly possible to develop from empirical data, from cases considered, that the covida-19 epidemic did not cause increased distress in children. True, they are, but they have been before, and they are a reflection of various factors. Unfortunately, even today these tribulations are present, and the epidemic has certainly deepened a number of things. Here I think we can agree. Then this should also be highlighted. That's what we're used to manipulating data, so it's no surprise. You say schools in Slovenia were closed as long as possible. Don't hold it. Don't hold it. Schools in Slovenia have not been closed for as long as they have been closed for so many and so many days but have not been the longest. But what's important is you're talking, the schools were closed. Schools were closed for a while, but the educational process was under way. Today, we have heard from the List of Marjan Šarc — I fear the damage done is irreparable. You really underestimate young people, you really underestimate our children! Why are you doing this? Why do you tell them in advance, "her, how you are Gods, her, nothing can be done, her, how terrible." At least that's how I look in person. We learn from day to day in life. Many things are hard, many things are very nice, but all these experiences make us rich, may make us different, more open, more broad-minded. And it is my opinion that children who can adapt very quickly are resourceful, innovative, and sometimes more important than we adults can think outside of some stable guidelines, some molds. But it is true, respected and respected, that this is more difficult or difficult if parents do not support them, if their parents do, if they tell them that they cannot, instead of encouraging them, “yes, it is difficult, but we will.” This is where I don't agree to this obvious. I'm aware they're not all the same situations, they're not all good conditions, I understand that. It's been difficult for many people, but it's been difficult before the epidemic, and it's going to be hard after the epidemic. But there would be much more pressure if the government did not respond properly. Yes, it is. And it didn't help banks like it did in the past crisis, help people and help the economy. This is all connected, helping the economy is once again helping people. They keep jobs, keep jobs, and so on. You know, I don't think this year was lost. This year has been difficult, this year has been full of challenges and, as has been said, full of pressure. And this year was primarily the year in which I believe and hope that we all learned a lot. The educational process did not exist. We are all aware, however, that individual schools, individual institutions are different and, of course, have also different adaptations, some better, some faster, some in this way, some in different ways. But they've adapted. And I believe they've been getting better, more efficient, more skilled from week to week. I also believe that what children as well as those who educate our children have learned during this period that this knowledge will be passed on in the years to come when this epidemic will be another memory. I believe that, as a society, we have also been able to learn a lot in these difficult times and that we will endure this final epidemic. We also heard the kids went to school too late, as you say. Now I'm going to show this picture again. That's why they went back to school too late. That's why the schools had to close. And you in the party of Social Democrats say the Minister is a two-faced woman. Then what are you? Then what are you? Let me continue with the invitation to enroll in higher education. Initially, it must be said that all procedures have been carried out in a timely and normative manner. It is true, however, that the current government has taken a different approach to this matter than past governments. It has embarked on a strategic reflection on what will give Slovenia more added value in the coming years, what will lead to development, what will be the future of our country. My opinion is that neither Slovenia nor any country should afford to educate a potentially unemployable workforce. And that's why this strategic thought and the results are already there. Where we need more personnel, there are also more tendering places. And finally, as we have seen in this process, there is more interest. As we can see from this debate and the discussions of the predecessors and predecessors, you, the left opposition, work with words, we, the government coalition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, work with action. I've shown specific numbers before, and I'll keep doing that. Look, this is the number of pieces of information equipment. It increased significantly in 2020, in 2021. The government, the ministry, went against the fact that the school was far away, that there was also a lot of catching up to do here, helping especially those socially weak who could not afford such equipment. It is also extremely important that the Ministry's budget has increased significantly. And what is also very important is that investments will be higher in the coming years in this area. It is clear, therefore, that this government causes the future of Slovenia to young people, the educational process, what they should have done in the past: to educate people who will create added value to cover the professions we need most in Slovenia. You, the left opposition, work with words, we, the government coalition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, work with action. And with respect and respect, that will be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Soniboj Knezak, prepares Mrs Jerca Korče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that I have been a major part of my professional career, this is almost 37 years in the economy, although I have been in the National Assembly for almost three years, things like this, as I am listening to them today, are really hard to come by. I can't believe what they're judging, and it's up to these 90 Members, who are in this national assembly, when I'm listening to some really stupid things, I can't say otherwise. I wouldn't even discuss it, and I'm going to let a lot of what I was going to say go away because I'm not going to repeat myself. I don't know how many times it's been said today, including with regard to the replicas themselves. I was going to check in and also on two matters of my predecessor, young fellow Ferjan, but you went to see him because I don't know that he was doing quite a good part of his professional career even on Novi24, it's a lost cause and it's a shame that I'm discussing in the direction of what he said. When you run out of arguments, you see some pictures that we don't even see in this room, some graphs that aren't even visible. In short, it's a way of communicating. I don't know, since the debate with my colleague Rebersk from New Slovenia, I would say, holy forgiveness, we are working, and you are all crazy, and you are doing this country harm. I think that viewers and viewers or citizens and citizens are just not as naive as you try to make them through your populist pamphlets. I am listening to all this afternoon to how much you are boasting about how much this government has invested in the field of education, for all areas, 20, 150 million, but forget to say, dear colleagues and colleagues, one fact that you have a record debt owed to this country to share something that this country does not have, my granddaughter, who is now two years old, will pay off her debts. You don't say that. You'll be building homes. Great, even previous governments could build homes for the elderly if they owed each other money. One year ago, when you formed the government, you received a sum of almost a quarter billion euros in revenue surplus. It was a gift from the former government. Today is a multibillion-dollar debt. And brag about how successful you were. In what areas? Are over four thousand dead successful work for you when you say you're doing well? You're doing great! I hope you'll stop working as soon as possible because you're doing harm to this country. So much for the comments of the current debates, which I have been accompanying most of them in the office. As for the minister and today's topic, I said I wouldn't list everything because we're just repeating ourselves. The readings are more or less the same. I am also very cautious about the other debates concerning these pecapes. I'm not going to say today that our schools are closed for too long or that they're closed for too little time. I believe, on the one hand, if the minister didn't have any other ideas, the simplest thing is that you have things closed and no work done, the kids are at home, and at the same time you can say that you've been protecting their health. It's hard to argue that they've been locked up too long. It was just her decision. In my opinion, when I monitor this event, it was not her decision; it is not at the stage of this decision, at least as far as the work of the Ministry of Education is concerned; it is not her decision-maker; it is a decision-maker somewhere else. Too bad she's not in the hall, I'd ask her because one of the questions I was going to ask her is what she thinks, like an academically educated man with a doctorate, how she feels like a minister who has a restraining order against communication with the public by some Ukom official. All other ministers have the same prohibition, except for Prime Minister Janez Janša, of course. This restriction does not apply to him. Prohibition of communication to ministers in a democratic country in the Republic of Slovenia in 2021 – a respected colleague, what are we talking about? Catastrophe. Now, about the minister's work. I'm going to focus more on that part that I don't think was exposed to today, that's catastrophic communication. The role of each minister or minister is to care for his or her area. Now I'm going to go a little bit more into this area, because for the last twenty years I've been working in the field of human resources, let me start with this description of the work and the work of a profession such as the Minister of Education. It should take care of the development of its entire area, that it is proactive, that it works, cooperates, and, finally, prepares an expert team with the help of a ministry that, according to my assessment of this department, has a wealth of knowledge and experience to take measures, innovations, eliminates weaknesses, particularly decisively, clearly and in the first place protects the interests of children, young people and other stakeholders in this process of education and education. All of this, dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister Simona Kustec, she did not, in my opinion, do. Much of these activities, which I have now listed, are based on connectivity and communication. This, the distinguished minister, especially the latter, is the area of communication, on your part, unfortunately this year your ministry has not been or has been graciously said, as I said in the introduction, catastrophic. And I'm not just thinking here about the statements that have changed with this government from day to day. In this department, we have even witnessed that, not day after day, the ministry's statements changed, but that they also changed from hour to hour, morning one, afternoon the other. If you want to successfully address a problem, one of the key challenges facing this system of education and education during the epidemic is certainly the Ministry's cooperation with all stakeholders in this education and education system. This is said to be cooperation with experts in the field of teaching work, school psychologists, schools, employee representatives, not least with students and students. Was that successful? The Minister said in her presentation that she estimated that they were doing well, that they were successful, that cooperation was good. And it was true, dear colleagues, that this cooperation was good? One of the points presented by the Minister in her opening speech that this cooperation had been successful was, last but not least, evidence of the signing of an act on progress with the largest Swiss Union. I don't know if that's true. Is this participation in this epidemic based on one signature of an act with the largest union? On this occasion, I would remind you, colleague and colleague, because unfortunately there is no Minister, that at the 30th urgent meeting of the Committee on Education, which was held at the end of December, three months ago, by the largest union of SVIZ, the Union of Public Servants in Education and Education, it was publicly expressed that, despite requests and suggestions, teaching in the planning processes was not sufficiently taken into account. This is a statement and you can look at the notes, magnetograms from this board meeting. This is on one side of communication with the employees' representatives, with the unions, their assessment, which is what I read to you. However, they are not the only stakeholders in this process. They are also dissatisfied with all of this with the fact that I should also read you a warning or a questionable relationship due to the absence of dialogue, the representative of the Association of Directors and Directors, Mr Pečan, also pointed out. In his interview, he said that this government deviates from its own criteria and that it is afraid because I quote the government's derogation from its own criteria, "it causes discomfort because they see that it no longer matters what the epidemiological picture really is, but that it will be a matter of the current decision". Unfortunately, at least, as far as this department is concerned, more political decisions were at the forefront. Other shareholders. At the same meeting at the end of December, the president of the Association of Associations of Education Workers of Slovenia said, I will quote, I will read it, I wrote: “The absence of the teaching profession in school policy is unfortunately so long that it has become self-evident and should never have been. The result of measures not so far based on a broad professional consensus and in close communication on the policy-prax-research relationship will return as a boomerang and instead to a society of knowledge dropped into another society, into another century." It was my intention to ask the honourable Minister, on the basis of which she estimates that they were doing as well as she presented in the recital. I'm really interested in that. One of the issues she had on this introductory explanation was the claim that this debate will be mostly political, not professional today. I would say unfortunately, Madam Minister, even all your decisions and actions that have been taken without a profession or as a result of the documents coming to the public these days, you have repeatedly ignored your short term, bypassed it, was not one of the key criteria in your decision-making. What you have followed faithfully, however, is that you have followed the policy of Janez Janša, a policy that, as I said, limits you, inter alia, as a district minister in communication, while a doctor of science has a ban on an official not to communicate in Slovenia, the Minister of Education must not appear on television, on the radio, on the media. The Ukom official stopped it. Does he feel good? I believe not. I'm sure you don't. I don't know how she'll feel when she's back in her political career. I know she was a lecturer at the FDV. I think she's gonna be walking around with her head down. All I intended to do was point out this inappropriate communication, which was not satisfactory for any of the stakeholders who should have been involved in such important issues as the issue of education, and unfortunately were not involved. The last thing that broke out at the bottom of the court is a statement by the distinguished minister, who also definitively confirmed to me that I am thinking of punishing children, students who have in some cultural way pointed out the problems they have because of your opinion that they have a successful teaching method. What you said in a way without a single empathy, I think is worth more than a conviction. Already this, Madam Secretary, if I count down all the other findings that have been made this morning, and I know that they will be in just a few hours, at least, as far as I'm concerned, is sufficient reason that you are not fit and mature to the function that you are currently performing. I'm sorry. And yes, Your Honor, that is also why I will support today's proposal for your interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Reploco wants Mr. Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u118	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I'm not going to quote, but something was said in terms of that. “Boy Ferjan worked most of his professional time on Nova24TV and is a lost cause.” And you, honourable Member, my fellow Member, say that I am without arguments. You're telling me I'm out of line. And let me fix you, it wasn't the majority, but there was about half of my professional time working on Nova24TV. But that's not the point. The point is, you said yourself that you didn't know me, or that you didn't follow me, but you're still trying to discriminate against me. And your words say the most about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next word is Mrs Jerca Korče, Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Yes, the fact is that the Minister of Education, Mrs Simona Kustec, is part of a government team that is responsible for controlling the epidemic. This is shown in numbers. The figures are due, the statistics are due to the failure to control this government's epidemic, which is a collective body and, of course, is also a minister. She's in the introduction herself, and the coalition likes to use this argument, but if before 13. 3. everything has been arranged and today we would not have this situation. Yeah, sure. But the numbers are: infected by March 13th, we had 179 of them, dead nothing. Then comes the data on the first wave. A thousand 284 people were infected and 113 were killed. And then, with respect and respect, we get to the second wave. Here, however, there is a total collapse and a lack of control of the epidemic by this government. The numbers in front of us today show that we had 200 thousand 579 confirmed infections and 4 thousand 220 dead, unfortunately. The minister was part of a government team that collapsed in control and brought us, along with other members of the government, to the very top of mortality. That's what death numbers talk about. The excessive mortality rate in the Member States of the European Union for 2020 shows that the value of this indicator was above 90% in three countries – Poland, Bulgaria and Slovenia. So after excessive mortality, which is relevant data because these are comparisons with past years, this is what is said to be mortality for the same period, is shown in the fact that we are at the very top. And all the rest of these numbers are just consequences. And these are the consequences of this government's misbehavior and the total inability to control the epidemic on the one hand and what is the main evidence of today's interpeeler, the minister, putting priority on the other. And the top priority should be the school district, but it wasn't. Today, the minister, knowingly or unconsciously, told the truth. All that has been said since this statement has essentially explained its passivity and I will quote today's statement, which it has made because it is in itself sufficiently coherent. I quote Mrs Kustec's statement: "A year ago, like many of you, I was convinced that everything stops for a certain period of time, that we will wait a little, wait a little, and that it will all go back to the usual tracks. Most likely, we were all convinced that by means of measures of complete stoppage we would win." This is a statement confirming why after the first wave, when the numbers were the same as the rest of the government went to the so-called summer sleep. How she did not take advantage of the summer months for what was her task, that is to say, the preparation of the school system for the possibility of what was then unfortunately realized. There was no preparation, no alternative scenarios. And, yes, that the matter is even worse, there is something clear today that this same minister has never raised her voice to protect her department. You could have denied me if, of course, you had an argument. The minister did not raise her voice when ideas about opening other activities were on the agenda. She didn't raise her voice and say, "No, schools are first on the list, they're our priority." She did not raise her voice that the Minister of Labour should protect the elderly and thus enable schooling. And it has never been clear to other ministerial colleagues, for example, "my dears, I am a minister who covers a very important resource to compromise with other departments in order to, let's say, observe the rest of the factory that works without having to make sure there is a reduction in the spread of infections in the workplaces and thus enable the opening of schools". Nor did we hear that we would raise our voice when experts and many others warned that the border with Croatia should be closed. She simply let go of the flow of letting go of this open, I don't know what it was, because of the so-called shooting of a government speaker's pool. The secretary kept her mouth shut. In fact, she closed schools and leaned back, and today she told herself in a statement that she was confident that we would stop everything for a certain time, we would put up a little patience, wait, and then things would come back to normal. That's her statement. And this statement confirms these findings that we're giving to you in the opposition. She closed the schools, took the easiest route, leaned back and waited for what would happen. Due to the remaining resources and functioning of this government, the infection curve rose to the sky and the schools remained closed. And today she's gone even further. We've even heard some of these noises when we hear how this closure has had a beneficial effect on the computer literacy of children. Yes, of course, if I put myself in the role of Minister when you care about what some of the situations are at home. And this situation through the screen is not detectable. The number of pressures can be recognized in the school space when you have contact with a student, if you care, of course, how important social contact is, how important and invaluable the moments are that happen in the school space among peers. And if you care that the number of students hospitalized has risen by 30% because of the suicide attempt. And these are the consequences of the epidemic. And this is due to the fact that we have imprisoned these people for four walls without realizing that the situation is actually very different from family to family. I know and I believe that we agree here that all the consequences of what has been done are not even known to us today. Now we're going to active citizenship. I have also heard many times through the school process how important it is that young citizens are active, that young people participate, that young people are encouraged to be as active as possible in their citizenship. Here I have the material of a curriculum on active citizenship. It is stated that the fundamental objective is to promote active, informed and responsible democratic citizenship. Students through this work, i.e. learning active citizenship, acquire and develop knowledge of human rights, democracy, democratic culture, the role of the media and civil society, constitutional regulation and the political system. And a very important aspect is particularly critical cooperation, dialogue, strengthening your own thinking and responding to social problems. The closure of schools and the inactivity of the minister became a serious social problem at some point. Its passivity, its communication has become a serious problem for students and they have opted for active citizenship – the same active citizenship that the learning process encourages over the years. And what do they experience? They experience none of what is said in the basic objectives of what is active citizenship and in which we constantly encourage them to develop these skills. They're experiencing the repression of the state apparatus. No warning, nothing, but repression. Repression from the same government suit, which is the last in line, has the right to express themselves that they have violated, that they are responsible, that they must take responsibility and that they must be punished. Perhaps this argument could be used if it were not for the same government every day or every month, every week, to violate its decisions, to act ignorantly on matters, if not for the last time a resortary minister overstepped her decision when she went to the event and was there without a mask. This is the creation of a first-class and second-class society, czech, we are the authority, we are allowed everything and everyone else will be allowed to cash. But if you raise your voice and say you don't agree with something, you'll be cashing in right away. And one more thing to conclude. This same minister once belonged to a party that is practically gone today, and the then president and founder of this party did much in his professional work prior to his political career with political responsibility and defined what it was. At the end of one of his articles, he wrote that “the conscience’s political responsibility is not so uniform and it is not so easy to define, but it is certainly not to give up objective responsibilities in the political field. On the other hand, the criteria under which such responsibility is recognized and realized must be continuously built up and embedded in political consciousness." When you tell us today that we are wasting valuable time with these interpolations, instead, you better come with us and fight the virus. You know, the main task of the opposition is that, despite what you do and how low you combine these criteria, how you tear down some of the basic standards that have been set in the past with regard to taking responsibility, how you do in some way a breakdown of the criteria of taking political responsibility, that we do not give up when we constantly set a mirror for you and confront you with what this government cannot overcome. And that's a little bit of self-reflection. In normal democracy as well as in the past, our country's criteria have been set and people have assumed political responsibility for minor errors. And today, the opposition will prove to you with facts, numbers, very clear things, and there is not a shred of evidence to convince you that there is a political responsibility. And to break apart by breaking down the criteria for taking political responsibility, you break down the policy and, at the latter stage, you break this country apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Marko Bandelli, prepare for mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I'd like the secretary of state to be in there, at least. But I do hope he's listening to us in some room, but since he's got an interpolation, I think it's best that she listens to the arguments here. Now there's a third debater here talking about interpretation, but I can't see it, it's always an empty chair. This is also said to be a disastrous attitude towards this national assembly. That's something that shouldn't have happened, President. Do we take five minutes off to get her back, or do we all talk empty here? Who are we talking to? People who listen to us - because they know what a disaster this government is. We need to talk to the man who's being intertwined here. I mean it that way. I hope she shows up from somewhere and takes her place. Or at least, if not otherwise, the Secretary of State, who is also the accomplice to everything that has happened until now. Dear Minister, if you are or are not, I will still tell you my position, my vision of what I feel in this work of yours. We've heard a lot of things, a lot of denials, from one place one thing, from our place another, and those who defend you still have this task to defend you, because that's what they have to do. But I am almost sure that everything that has happened to you – I will not say that it is not your fault, but to a large extent I think that some other person is guilty of much more than you in the first person, in the position that you are. I mean, you can see there's a lot of ministers of kimows, we know that. It says yes-man, they would say domestically; whoever just says yes, yes, that's right and that's how it has to be. And that's why what's going on. At this point I'm sure you're a different person because otherwise I would have labeled you as incompetent, which I believe you're not because you're a government – I mean, you've been in certain stages, like this and different, when we saw exactly that you're a competent person and you're able to do something. That's how I believe, and I want, if not another, to believe that you're not to blame for this awkward situation, if we call it that. The fact is, we're basically between the ones we had the longest closed school. And don't let me talk about Bulgaria, Romania, and everything that it is. I don't care about anything. I am talking about those countries around us; Croatia has much less, Austria has much less. No, we have to be special, we just have to keep it shut, no problem. Then we get a smart guy, a son of a colleague, who then writes how nice it is, and how we learn at home, because we're ready, and because we do everything that he is, he doesn't write, he writes to each other. But let's let it stop. Well, basically, a hundred kids who hear you and say how bad it is that you're at home, that you're not at school, that you're not at school, that you're socialized, that's because of other things, because of knowledge as such, that you're getting knowledge in one way or another. So this is very bad, in my opinion. It's extremely bad. Unwarranted denial of education of children with special needs. I think it was that drop over the edge that really we had to come to the Constitutional Court's task to open a school for these people when all Europe had open schools for these children with special needs. [[…]] We don't. We're special. Well, you didn't do anything, you didn't do anything, you were quiet. In fact, you were still defending your position. And that's what's bothering us here. It bothers us so much. I can't get past the position read by my colleague Škrynjarov in the beginning. I think that attitude is, in one word only sad. It's literally sad. You use the words “interpellation interferes with the rhythm of work”. This interpolation is disrupting the rhythm of the work. Those were your words. You know, I could also say this, Mrs Škrynjarova, who listens to me probably when we do, and I can say to me, because there were a lot of us that saved Slovenia – I will say a different expression – before the fall, because we had one leg in the grave, we can say, we literally had a leg in the grave, is Minister Cuffer with all the instruments, literally, and he was looking for practical water in the Sahara to save us. At that moment. And you've been interpreting it – you know when, Esdees? Five months later, since they came to the government. Five months later, there was an interpolation. Shame! And now you're saying that this interpolation interferes with the rhythm of the work. The rhythm of stupidity that happens to this government doesn't work. In the biggest financial crisis we had back then in Slovenia, which you produced, you produced and your irresponsible conduct. Just like the government does today. It's all the same. All of this is exactly the same. You know what's funny? You always talk here, and I don't understand it, you always say that the left side ruled for 30 years. In the last 16 years, you've been in government for six years, and you've done damage for 60 years every time. Every time. But forget all that stuff too soon, forget it too soon. It says a large base, there are so many systems to advertise in one way or another, and then it is forgotten; only what is worth showing. Let's get to the bottom of this. I mean, that thing bothers me, and I have to say, because then you left us all, the country even, no wages and no pensions. We're not gonna talk about the same thing a million times, but you don't understand. You're still hitting yours. I would like to know if the Minister is aware of how harmful and exclusive, if you say so, and it is also underestimating the relationship you had with athletes. I'm not going to talk about school anymore because we've already told everyone here that we're not going to be over each other, we're going to be athletes. 200 days of imprisonment for sports and athletes. 200 days! The only one! Because others have organized themselves in a different way. Four months was the prison for 40 thousand and more athletes in the lower categories. I'm locked up. I'm not talking about gym athletes, you know, you're the least of them, because that's where I understand that there's a closed space and stuff. I'm talking about sport in general. We generally think of ourselves as a sports country. We love national sports very much, such and different, everything it is. That an athlete had to be tested 24 hours or 48 hours before each game, as we now demand that traders be tested once a week, which I did not understand now why. I didn't understand. I'm sorry. I know that it is necessary to spend the purchase of those quick tests already purchased with the question of what is behind it all. And I'm not going to talk about training and all the things and all the details, because it's totally out of touch, but it is. I mean, how can you count that one sport or education even remotely how can you compare these two things? [[…]] I don't know. Praise how they were organized Nothing was organized! [[…]] Children had to organize themselves. We in the SAB have also taken the initiative to buy computer equipment, how many times in anti-korona packages we have given these initiatives. I don't understand that one thing that might be irrelevant to you. You can't compare home schooling with rooms that are designed for what we've talked about before. And then what was it that bothered me the most when we were in this debate and you were always throwing — no? Throughout the course of time, such dark purposes are yours to put the interest of private educational institutions practically ahead of the quality of higher education, kindergartens, schools, universities. Every week there's something on the table; but we push the private ones, and we push private schools, and we push private universities, and we give money to someone who has no idea that it's even a university because it's ours. How long will it be ours? How much longer is this kid gonna be? How much? I can say that I am literally and in the party of the SAB and in general we are disappointed. You know, we're disappointed. They also praised you for having done a lot of good things, and we have never voted against certain things. You know that. But always, everything that's been going on in this, there's always been something in there, just to show you that you know how to blow the people of Slovenia with your ideas, with your ideology, with your system, with your way of working. Minister, I'm almost certain that as a man, at least as you were, I remember you from then on that you have no ill intentions. I'm more literally angry, and we're really disappointed in the party, because it's obvious that you're all ministers in a row, I'm not going to expose anyone out, under control and under one command. That's clear. No one's single here. I know it's one collaboration to make up for what needs to be done. You know where the clean answer to what I said is. This turned out to be Studio City when Minister Kozlovich, in silence, said everything. Understand the association of words: with silence she said everything. There we understood exactly what time it was in this government. Fear or not, I don't know what else it is. That I won't talk [[…]] Dear colleagues, I have before me, and I have also read an extremely interesting letter from your President – a letter to the members. Look, this government literally, I'm sorry, I'm always going to repeat it, it's deaf, absolutely deaf; not for what they're interested in, deaf in general, arrogant and your president, sorry, is offensive. When all of us in the middle – in your letter here clearly, this was seen by the whole of Slovenia, in your letter – from the centre left and from the left Mr. Janez Janša marked us as left fascists. That's what it says in here. That's the sentence: the left fascist. Is this a way of speaking that can be written publicly by one Prime Minister? I mean, tell me if that's it. I don't think so. Since the Minister isn't, I can't help but answer the million claims you've made. I'm not just gonna say what you've been defending the secretary's position and everything she is. But most of all it gave me – I laughed because I heard “the successes and victories of this government”. The biggest populism of all the populisms in here is Comrade Reberšek. I think this is known to everyone; one and the same says, always the same, that we have done nothing, they have done everything in one year. What did you do? In one year?Oh, my God! Continue the programs because you can't do anything else! And if you start new programs, thank God you'll do something. The king of populism. He's a slobber. That's right. I told you exactly what you'd done in a hurry at that time, so the secretary would see who the mistakes were and what they were. First thing, when you came to the government, you raised your wages to the maximum. That's the first thing you've done. First day. Ministers and Secretary of State. You really did, because you used to brag about it in the SDS. I don't know who's always talking about these full stores of equipment. You'll realize that the minister who's been filling the warehouse has been the same for six years. The same man. What does Marjan Sarec have to do with this? He is the same minister – one who has to watch for stocks in state reserves. The same man has been the same for six years. And if he couldn't make it sooner, because he did it because he saved lives, because that's why we have two parliamentary committees. Two, not one, two! Because that's who we are, we have to have two investigators. So there's probably something wrong with two of them being investigators. Obviously! I'm not gonna say it, but something smells like corruption and stuff like that, but it does. But it's Marjan Sarec, the government of Marjan Sarca, because it was us. But the man is the same! Let's always forget to say that here. Then what did you do? You've destroyed the STA. There's a little bit missing here because you're a little short to destroy it. You wanted to do your agency, which turned out to be something amazing that closed in 14 days, even before, she had to close in four days because her husband didn't understand what a public national agency was. He thought it was Homeland or Democracy, where it was written by Vasle or something. I mean, terrible. You attack the media all the time, you're professionals. Alone, Minister, you have violated anti-Korona measures and this was also one of the arguments at the outset. And look at the fragment, everyone from the Olympic Committee was punished, but you were forgiven if I didn't miss it. That was interesting, too. Okay, well, it happens, you apologize and then you apologize. It's a habit: forgive me. Or those who pray to two health - care workers when they commit a sin and then are forgiven. This can also be a way of being exonerated. I can't believe this could be good. I don't know. You're just thinking. You have set up — and indeed you have done so, yes — you have set up more than 140 days of curfew. More than 140 days of curfew. And this is not to do from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., as the whole of Europe is about, that the moment that the inn is closed or whatever it is closed is still closed. No, that's where it's supposed to be from 9:00 to 6:00. So I'm not allowed to do anything. I've already talked about schools, they're actually the most closed up about this in Europe. They scolded that I wouldn't speak, and you, the Minister, had completely replaced everything in there, everything and everything. Everything is scurvy. You have partners, partners, your partners, who literally fucked the voters – that's what you have to say for once, we can't talk like that – and the people. The voters are disappointed. Look, if you're disappointed in the electorate, you can come to us, we're different. You're destroying culture. We'll hear about that, too, because this is the next interpolation, the second week I heard about culture. For Simonita. There's a good reach here too, so it's being intertwined as such. The nicest thing that was – and that was the main thing that happened – that we gave, we gave, we paid the taxpayers – and it's only right that they know – 75,000 euros to fly us by planes. I mean, that was really something to do. It's been a while. At least to make money, the minister boasted that it was free, but we gave another 75,000 euros for nothing, because two months later we were back on the same page. In fact, we were five times worse. These are successes, be careful, these are all your successes and your victories. These are victories. We're going with the planes over Slovenia, we're going to give 75,000 euros for the aircraft and what it takes to show that we've destroyed the virus. We destroyed the virus with the planes. You're punishing workers, taxi drivers, food suppliers, now new kids. Instead of taking sides with children [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u123	Comrade Bandelli, I suggest you focus on those 20 points of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u124	Yeah, look, kids. Children are important to me, and she, a minister who did not side with children, actually said that it was right for them to be punished — it was a mistake for me. That is why she is sitting today — no, do not sit down because she is not. Those who are watching us are not inside that you will know. She has so much respect for the National Assembly. She's not here. And not that she's not five minutes away, she hasn't been for half an hour. [[advertising from the hall]] Or an hour or so. Just so you know, we're watching what's going on. I know you have a Ukuk that forbids people from going on TV, but there's nothing to be forbidden here. It's got to be here. She should be sitting there, Vice President. And if you're as much a vice president as you are, we should stop the session and wait for it to come back and continue. That's what you should do when I'm done. One of the great victories and success you've made must be the billions of poofs. That's for sure, it's a huge victory that we're all going to pay for. You've endangered 300,000 jobs. You didn't save them, you threatened them to make it clear, and you destroyed the economy. Because what I hear now around, in the first person, in the first person, because I can say it, you don't know how many bankruptcys there will be and how many people will be fired. You don't even know that yet. And don't brag about saving, but you've endangered 300,000 jobs. What is the maximum of the maximum is that, with ignorance and completely incorrect measures, you are actually guilty of 4,000 deaths. You, not us. We had other ways. And we're supposed to be proud of the work of this government, the work of this minister who isn't. Who's not here today. I'll finish it now, but we're disappointed in the SAB. We're very disappointed, and if you were so smart and so good to the citizens, you'd step down on your own. It would be even better if the whole government stepped down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, and Nick Prebil will be after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u126	Thank you, and I'd like to say a nice hello to everyone! First of all, I won't support interpolation because it's unorganic. Since such an unargued, empty political pamphlet, which is mistakenly called interpolation, is a damage to the paper on which it is printed. Thus, for ecological reasons, this must be rejected in its entirety. Second. It is difficult or almost impossible to reconcile with what is not argued, so I will focus on the arguments that have now been highlighted in the debate. The first thing that happened was a whole bunch of protests about why the current minister is being compared to the previous ministers. Let's just say that the current minister spent 100 times less on the team than former Minister Pikalo, and then it was a cry that he wasn't the subject of interpretation. Ladies and gentlemen, such an intervention is a reflection of complete ignorance. Whoever's doing this has no idea about political science. Because if I opened one textbook on polytology, I'd know that methodologically, polytology is always comparable. First and foremost is the comparison in polytology. Then you can continue and analyze things. And by the way, some then extend it to the whole of society, and for that you will also find in the textbooks of claims, sociology is always comparable. Then it was said that the problem was that, at one time, there was an intervention after about six months against one minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this government did not have a single day of peace. The hundreds of days that each new government is supposed to have in mind to start its work in order to be able to organize itself properly, these hundreds of days this government has never had. At once, certain individuals and quasi-aphers were launched immediately, which then disintegrated or turned in the direction of the one who started – I hope that Mr Gale is looking at us now – but this has all been forgotten. Now it's back to making the wrong conclusions. In addition to forgetfulness, it is obvious that this interpretation is based on ignorance of the law. One of the key messages we have been listening to all day is that the Minister, I quote, "listens to the President of the Government". What does the law say about that? The law says that the President of the Government coordinates, directs and directs the work of ministers or ministerial assembly. That's what you're saying, you're telling the minister that she respects the law and that's why you're proposing her release. A quick round of applause. Let's move on. The Minister is also supposed to be responsible for the situation in families following these discussions; they are. At times, what is expected of the family was known — it was raised for values. It was simply said, each father has a fundamental task of telling each child at least three things each day. First: my child, I love you; second: my child, I will always stand by your side; third: my child, my socialism, has never succeeded, anywhere and never, has always brought destruction, death, suffering, and destruction. Today, this task of training for values should be carried out by school. And now we are dealing with what is actually the essence of this interpolation. This interpellation, given that it is completely unargued, based on legal ignorance, obvious, on political ignorance, means only two, that it is politically motivated, wants to be shoved into a coalition, one additional wedge, and, of course, is the fear of those who are proposing that in the system of Slovenian public education nothing would change. Here's the problem. Because we're going to ask again what education is. Education does not just give knowledge; education should also give values, true values. Today, the public education system is ideologies to the amen. What awaits the Minister – and today, as I said, I will support her, and next time I am not sure if these things will move – is that the education needs to be deideologicalized. All the LGTB and other cultural-marksist indoctrination, which is full of education, must be driven out to bring in the true Slovenian tradition and Slovenian culture. More Prešerna, more Cankar, all that is the basis of Slovenian culture, which is the quality of Slovenian culture, and of course also true knowledge when we talk about values. What kind of kid would you expect when he finishes school? To at least know this – I say this because we have already observed these shortcomings in this Chamber – that both international socialism and national socialism are both based on Karl Marx and that Karl Marx was the first to say that some nations should be exterminated in the Holocaust and that even Hitler was more consistent than the rest. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u127	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u128	You see, ladies and gentlemen, these are values; what does not exist in your interpretation, because you are aware of this deficit and want it. And you are afraid that in the school system, you will be brought up for values, that a child will always put fundamental values first, among them freedom, which also means responsibility, because there is no freedom without responsibility. You yourself have written in the interpretation and today's debate a statement on how the school should work, but you have forgotten that this is all happening during the pandemic and that this is not only a Slovenian problem, but that it is a European problem to coordinate at the interstate level also individual solutions and that, of course, you cannot simply demand that some be excluded from the system of responsibility in terms of responsible behaviour. Responsibility just means that you are responsible to an individual. If anything, we should be raising the school this way. But that doesn't mean you're doing your own harm as multiculturalism, but now we're going to give up our culture to make foreign culture the only salvation. No, no, no. It is just necessary to strengthen Slovenian culture, Slovenian tradition, Slovenian language, Slovenian values; all that was once justified not only by the state of Slovenia, but also by Europe and also by the European Community. If you want – what kind of child do you want when he comes home from school? To be able to be critical of his environment, to be able to understand what is really going on, what is really going on. If, for example, one media in Slovenia announces that the Church has become a non-fascist organization that hates people and that it is an evil that must be driven out of life as soon as possible and because it hates women, the LGTB community, everything else will understand that it is biased and that it has elements of non-hatred based on religion, which is unconstitutional, illegal, and a crime. I just hope the police are following me now, because what I'm saying just happened in one of the Slovenian media. Then you can see here that the child should be sensitive to double criteria when you understand that in this same – by the way, ultraleviary – the media would be forced to shout and scream if someone announced that Islam had become a non-fascist organization that hates people who are the evil that needs to be driven out of life as soon as possible because they hate women, the LGTB community, everything different. Do you have any idea what the hall would be like if one had published such a statement? But when it comes to the Church, it's published as a statement of the day. Children should be sensitive to this in order to understand. Because it's not just about a lack of religious intolerance, which is unconstitutional, I'll say it again, but for a little more. The whole European civilisation and, if you like, Slovenia, perhaps especially Slovenia, is based on Christianity. With such a pursuit as is here, it is only one small splinter, unfortunately, which also has a certain degree of education, it is actually undermining the Christian foundations of European civilisation. What we think is self-evident. We should just make school sensitive to our children to know what that means. For, like even one member of the SD – Mr German was not with us now – he once said publicly: "Europe will either be Christian or it will be no more. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the point. That's what education is all about. Not only for knowledge, but also for values. It's forgotten. There's still a lot of work to be done here by the secretary. But what you're offering, of course, is no alternative. It's just that I wouldn't change anything. But there will be changes, much work will be needed and my voice against interpretation today, I hope that everyone understands as an incentive to the Minister to do everything in this work that has been delayed for a long, long time. Slovenian education needs to be deideologicalised, but it is necessary to go more closely in the direction of true values. Those on which Slovenian independence is based, those on which modern democratic Europe is united, which unfortunately has forgotten its very foundations lately. But this should also be done by Slovenian children, when they finish education, in a very sensitive way. In order to understand the environment, to be able to operate in a modern world, such as as independent, free individuals, is responsible and co-responsible to fellow humans.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word, and Matjaž German will discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister, first of all, welcome back to each other, I'm already afraid that you've stepped down quickly and that you won't be back. But okay, thanks for being here because we're talking about your interpretation. First, I would respond quickly, indeed, before I go to the content, to my colleague Škrnjar, and then some other colleagues, including Mr Rajić, spoke about who is not wearing masks and who is to blame for the spread of the virus. That he's deceiving himself. But I would only remember something here, just for one picture, who are those who do not follow their own rules, their own actions, for some personal or civil security. Those who are primarily responsible for this. Rajić said, but you know, it was because it was eating, but none of these people had a safety distance that was already commanded, nor the masks that were commanded by the decree of the same government at the time, nor the food on the table, but we will not go on about it. Some ministers, who were positive, also walked around, and some ministers, who went to arrange some nails without a mask and so on and so on. Dear Minister, my key question is what you did for the young this year. Let's take a real look. For students, students, children, not only did you not actually do anything to improve the situation of young people in society, you basically made them worse and somehow put them on their knees. You threw the students out of the students' home, and they're still out there. In my opinion, only in person, you decided too early to complete school closure and these schools were closed for a very long time. By comparison, in Slovenia schools were closed for 91 days, in the neighbouring Austria, to which you like to refer, 22 days. Well, distance learning was accompanied by a lot of confusion and problems. Finally, we know how long Arnes didn't work, but, Minister, you say in January this year: "We are one of the leading countries in Europe that is able to offer distance education. All, both teachers and students, are trained with appropriate communication technology and equipment, knowing that this education can be carried out smoothly.” Well, that's against everything that really happened. Experts also tell you clearly that there is no professional or other basis for your statements that such criteria have never been made, so you cannot speak them either. Well, then the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, which is supposed to be a professional support to your own ministry, tells you that it was in the spring of the first school closing, i.e. this organisation of the distance work you performed, exclusively in the domain of each individual school, meaning 454 primary schools, 181 secondary schools and 70 faculties. So about 705 plus methods of education, and then you say that things were perfectly coordinated, that everyone had instructions and that everyone was super-educated. Then let me not even talk about the professions that are largely made up of practice. Here you have overrun a whole generation of quality, which will never again make up for this practice, that I do not then speak further about rejecting dialogue and excluding the attitude towards children with special needs. And I'm gonna stop here for a little while. In fact, children with special needs really need some adapted implementation of education, and this adapted education can only be obtained in institutions and therefore we have established such institutions. It is precisely for them – and it is not for me to invent this, the profession says – that long-distance education is completely impossible because such educational institutions have specially trained workers and also places for it. Just when we're with children with special needs. I have received one letter myself, and I think you are also all colleagues and fellow Members. One of the students is one of the primary schools who says: “I love sitting in the school library and writing books. I'm interested in everything about Slovenia. Then I make quizzes for my classmates. I missed the thrill of looking for the right answer. I had no one to look forward to.” Well, Minister, these are realities, and these are the real hardships that you have caused by your reckless actions. Next. Of course, the Ministry does not take account of the profession, nor of anyone else, nor of the Constitutional Court, as far as we are concerned. The Constitutional Court points out that the closure of educational establishments for vulnerable groups could have irreparable consequences. The number of children in education with special needs is so low that it cannot make a significant contribution to preventing further spread of the virus or control of the epidemic. Of course, you ignore this smoothly, somehow narrowly explain yourself, and after a second attempt somehow avoid problems with the Constitutional Court you agree to release this part of education. In all of this, one of the main roles, I think, was one thing: especially your work, your well-respected minister. You know, everything we do in the opposition isn't an attack on you, and it's not an attack on the government. I think we have been very correct in your way since the first PKP, which has emerged here, with many proposals in the field of education as well. Finally, in the LMŠ Group alone, we have put in place more than 40 initiatives to address certain situations that have led to the conversion of citizens and citizens; of course, you have clearly ignored this because it is your way of working or working the government in which you are. When I talk about not taking into account the profession, not the health, not the ones you have at the Ministry, not talking about the communication that is on the dog, in fact the whole government, in fact putting this responsibility on others, on the parents, on the one hand also now the educators who had to do it online, even if it was possible with such a far-reaching way they were not aware, some of your calls and suggestions and guidance came from day to day, contradicting even, and that led to where they are. [[…]] Finally, when we are talking about a partial opening of schools, the medical profession and we all know that the expert group of the Government has made it clear that there are no reservations anymore, and these schools have been permanently closed. All these actions, including the first one, when you're probably in fear of what's going to happen and because it's so easy to close everything up and nobody's doing it anymore, had some long-term consequences both for education and for knowledge. You are the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, but we have been in the country for almost a year not receiving quality education, we are not receiving science or we are not participating in sports. I can also understand the honourable Minister that the epidemic, that the matter is not simple, that, of course, everything that is done cannot be the best thing to make a mistake. But you know, when you're warned by your own profession, it's what you have in the Ministry when you're warned by the medical profession, that's what the government has put in place to advise her when your parents, colleagues, parents and other schoolchildren warn you, after we actually turn to the opposition party with a lot of suggestions on you and then ignore it all, in my opinion, it's not just a problem and just an epidemic, but also in you or in the one who's giving you instructions. The communication I spoke about earlier with schools and principals was bad. Finally, the principals themselves said so. The confusion was great, some instructions were really confused and, as it were, measures from day to day, in that they also opposed each other. So to this day, it has actually been one big mess. Here I also ask myself, in addition to that first question, what did you do for young people who found themselves in some intermediate work that went through, say, from elementary school to high school this year or from high school to college. I think it's a completely neglected group, and there's not much at your ministry that anyone's dedicated to. After all, there is a kind of threatening group of these young people, for whom we in fact place a lot of hope in their quality education in the country. You have already said in your opening statement that you will set up new working groups to review the situation and the outcome of this. You know, it's great and it's cool, but it's still too late. Let's leave who you put in there. But the plan to address some of the negative social and learning consequences of shutting down schools should, in my opinion, be prepared very quickly, quite a while ago; when you decided to close the school. This plan should also be taken into account in all that has been done in the meantime, not just now. There was also some talk about this change in education, and about this consensus that the Government did not give, it gave. First time. I am certainly in favour of discussing the priorities of the staff we need in Slovenia, but you know, this is not how one says, no, no, but now we're going to stop this, and that is how I'm going to say it, and then we're going to move on. No! No! These are things that are done at least one year in advance for the following year in cooperation with all possible stakeholders, universities, those who are training this system. But then, on the other hand, colleagues talk about the quality of the study programmes, while you agreed to some programmes that are already so very difficult to employ in our country, some of them are more than necessary, I am talking about, health workers, and then your colleagues in the coalition boast that the government has increased entry into this medical direction. In the same breath, forget it, your respectable colleagues and colleagues, that these personnel will only be employed in ten years, and, on the other hand, your colleagues and colleagues, you forget, and I will always remind you that, during the epidemic, the responsibility of the former government of Janez Janša, when it has adopted the ZUJF, is to prevent any progress or increase in education in these directions. And that's what's true. You know, Minister, it's also not an obvious matter of your professional responsibility, because we've seen that the profession has been a little bit more involved, but it's mainly about your political responsibilities. You're here as minister and you're in the prime of politics. And this kind of genuine relationship that Janez Janša had in this government suggests that a compass simply went away, some direction that this government should have had. And you know, as a human, you can be perfectly correct, perfectly fine, and I'm not going to go into this because we don't know each other that well, but your work as a minister has shown that you suck. This is not just a finding of some part of Members in this National Assembly, this is the conclusion of your colleagues from the Ministry, this is the conclusion of your colleagues from the past service, this is a finding of trade unions, this is the conclusion of students and students who were unable to talk to you, this is a finding of the work of directors, directors, the work of schoolchildren and, of course, a large number of parents of our country. So, Minister, I think you have not done well enough to ensure the continuity and quality of the study process in Slovenia, regardless of the situation we are in, so I will support your resolution in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Matjaž German has the word and will be discussed by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u132	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished minister, good evening and a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! Today we are discussing and discussing your work, Madam Minister, on a field that covers three areas that are very expensive to us, Slovenes and Slovenians. I'm talking science, education and sports. All three of us love to brag. All three are seen as areas in which we are very proud. Practically on a daily basis or on a weekly basis, the media report on outstanding advances in science, we are very pleased to be classified and classified among those countries that have an exceptionally organised education, especially preschool education at the world summit itself, and what makes us rich and connects us and in the first place eliminates the differences that exist between us is the area of sport. Politicians on the daily basis are very fond of the success of our athletes and athletes. The global world, the global sports world knows the fight between Tade Pogacar and Primož Roglic – the first to win the French Tour, the second to win the Spanish Vuelta. Or the extraordinary success of a motocrossist, three-time world champion Tim Geiser, not to mention Goran Dragic, the captain of the golden Slovenian basketball team who has played in the finals of the NBA League in the past year, or the pearl of global sport, not only in sports, but also in business terms, I am talking about Luka Dončić, who is officially among the five best basketball players in the world. Not to talk about football players or our basketball players, volleyball players, Alenka Artnik for example, or Anamarija Lampič; Josip Iličić, Handanovic, Cloud, these are two of the top 20, the world's best goalkeepers in the world. Amazing results from canoeers, jumpers, not that it isn't. Of course, success is linked to the very training of these young athletes, which is constantly pointed out by sports industries during the epidemic, how they face your deaf ears daily. Maybe I'd like to turn it around a little differently so that you'll be touched more. I am not just talking about professional athletes, not only about 7 000 who are top and professional sports in Slovenia, I am talking about children, about sports that start from the first, second year and practically shape our existence, our life, strengthens our body, strengthens our spirit, as we like to highlight our children in our education cycle. They're just the key to your success, and then they follow. Experts keep warning that the main victims of epidemiology, epidemics — I apologize — are children who are in isolation. This leads to greater obesity, less mobility, what the Faculty of Sport has basically warned about, namely, a drastic reduction in the mobility of those children who attend primary school. So somehow the epidemic – obviously today this expression goes very hard for me from my mouth – the shape of our destiny and this, as we knew in the economy, we can't adapt in any way. In the last week, I have been faced with resentment because I see you as the Minister of Economy when, at the opening of one of the major trades in Slovenia, information was made available that at the same time there could be 700 individuals in this store, in this case the buyers, while in the nearby headquarters where we have 16 thousand seats in the stadium, when we have 12 thousand seats, we are not able to organize ourselves in a manner that, according to the circumstances that have adapted the event in a way that would help Slovenian sport, so that viewers and viewers could attend these events. We're extremely good organizers, that's what they all attribute to us. In the last period alone, this year we have organized such a world championship in summers or the world championship in Pokluka, I am talking about the biathlon, or in Roglja the world championship in surfing and in nine days, the distinguished minister, before us is an extraordinary event that the general public is not aware of, and this is the world championship or the U2021 European Championship, until 21st in football. There has never been such an event in Slovenia. Except for the European basketball championship and possibly the handball championship. This is a global event where future football stars will be presented in Slovenia. What did the Government do, and what did the state do to enable this minimal visit, but will they tell the television broadcasts in 9 days? So dialogue is not what industry links point out, which is pointed out by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, although it is this – a respected minister, I ask for your attention – that he presented an accurate programme for opening sports industries and, of course, all its segments in a way that can practically be carried out even at a time of the black stage, the red phase and open up to green. Of course, on the other hand, there was no interlocutor and here we face a dilemma about the credibility of policy in solving everyday problems, in this case sportsmen and athletes, if you prefer, children of all of us; those who will present the most likely country of the Republic of Slovenia in a few years. Experts point out that without competition, there were 40 thousand amateur athletes at the time of the crisis — those who are active athletes, not those who are recreationals — warn that we are losing generations of young people, they warn that one quarter of young athletes could be lost in this process. We're talking about 20,000 potential world champions, Olympic champions, and if you want, the best basketball players, or goalie players in the world like Josip Iličić and other boys and girls representing us. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there is no listening and, as they warn, there will also be 10 percent of the societies, and these are the companies that are actually failing to provide the basic funds for their operations. And even more, even those who are strictly professionally organized fail to meet their conditions, on which they are, of course, existentially dependent. So, Madam Minister, I am talking about science on the one hand, about education and education on the other; but not about sports, not spirit, not hearing. Practically, the annual programme of sport is dominated by pessimism. Even in a document that should dictate some guidelines for the functioning of the State within sport or sports within the country, resources are falling. This document is not development-oriented, and this is not what the German in the National Assembly says, but is pointed out by experts. Epidemiologists, on the one hand, need to be trusted, but even more so should coaches and sports professionals. This is the real step into the world of adulthood, the distinguished minister, or maturity, if you want us to face problems that we are not just here because of the number and numbers that you will receive today when you vote in confidence. But there are names, names of parents, names of fans, names of athletes, names of sponsors, if you want, or capital that supports this activity and this activity. What has been in my eyes and which has been very disturbing in recent weeks has been the inability to adapt to the situation in a way that Slovenian representatives would not be forced to move their training and activities abroad, such as to the Republic of Croatia, while preparing and flying from there to sports competitions. The Republic of Slovenia, as a country that has invested enormously in sport infrastructure in recent years, which has developed a tourism sub-sector, I am talking about sports tourism, it is not very economical in this mandate to this issue and to this issue, to say the least. Or stepmotherly, if you like. On the one hand, we find a way to stand in the ranks of supermarkets, shops, including those with non-essential foods. On the other hand, we have sports events with exceptional transmissions or with exceptional ratings and interestingness, we have exceptional actors who on the daily basis, like yesterday Roglic, yesterday Pogačar, raise the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, politics is unable to solve what others were capable of. Croatia – third league football. They found a way to make sport at amateur level. Competitions are held in youth selections. Only in the Republic of Slovenia – what are we afraid of, why are we doing this? Just like we have a relationship with culture. The easiest thing to do is to close our eyes and close our eyes and lose ourselves in all of our daily debates without saving anything. But we really can't do that much initiative and wisdom and knowledge – you're just a professor at the Faculty of Social Sciences! – to find the key in view of the circumstances that are that of the trade unions, sports relations not only revive in the light of circumstances, but also survive in the light of the global situation. Well, I won't be too long. But my criticism, the honourable Minister, given that colleagues and colleagues have discussed much about education and science, is primarily about the solution to what unites us most. And if we are not able to unite in the field of culture or in the field of economics and we do not see the same goals in foreign policy, it is within us, in us, that patriotism is always present when it does not matter where we come from, but we raise the flag with the success of Slovenian athletes. Let this guide you, as long as you survive this interpellation today, to engage in dialogue with sport, with the world of sport, because in this way, as experts warn, we will survive only one more Olympic game. Five to six years from now, your work will be visible, Your Honourable Minister. Five to six years from now, I'd like to see you at the Faculty of Social Sciences what you have to say. So you said it was young adults that I believe understand and also take responsibility for their actions. You said it was the first step in the world of adulthood. Dear Minister, the first step towards maturity is to be done by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word, and Tadej Šuštar will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u134	Thank you very much, chairman. Nice greeting, Minister-in-Charlie! Even though I anticipated what you were going to say today, you surprised me. I have to say, it's interesting, you wouldn't think you could be a strong person, as you showed today when you're fighting for yourself. But you have not shown any determination in the defense of the department you run or, if I am more precise, you do not lead. For in your eyes your service will be the greatest ruling party. Why do I say that? Because you have allowed yourself that the ministry has been used several times to achieve the partial interests of the SDS party and its friends from private and Janša-friendly educational institutions. We also remember the story of extending the accreditation of Jambrek University, even though these conditions do not meet it. That costs us two million euros a year. You were silent and thus quietly supported the blocking of the invitation to enroll in the new year of study, which was a clear attack on the public higher education system – you are nothing. Like it's none of your business. And this is the system that gives you the bread, your esteemed minister. Let me quote your academic colleagues. I quote: “It has been a week since the Government has given its consent to the invitation to enroll in higher education curricula. With regard to the manoeuvre, which is really nothing more than a new exhaustion of public institutions at the expense of private institutions, we expected your reaction in the FDV High School Union. To this you have not only a political duty but also a professional and ethical responsibility. Unfortunately, you have decided to exercise the right to remain silent. The last example of beating already coordinated decisions between your ministry and higher education institutions proves not only the absence of your authority over your own area, but also the loss of ethical integrity, because you do not respect and support your own commitments, but you narrow the ministerial function to the obscenary role of observers. By undermining trust between the Ministry, universities and students, you have caused irreparable damage to all those involved in higher education." End of story. I think these eyewitnesses, respected, are highly justified. In fact, you have taken on the role of a silent observer. You get this from your former college colleagues and they tell you that with these moves, you're losing all academic credibility. Someday you'll probably return to this academic world. Ask yourself what this means to you. Somewhere in the future. Not just that, Minister, far from it. You're actually losing your credibility all the time. You did not, for example, oppose or question any harmful action for your students, teachers, and parents. Not one. For example, you haven't denied the truths of the Prime Minister about the high number of students and students in social life at all. You've been out of sight again. That's why I'm not really surprised by your arrogance and completeness, but by the complete misunderstanding of the students and students who demanded to return to school in peaceful and serious protests. Minister, the fact is that you missed the opportunity to stand on their side and respect the value that these students recognized in knowledge. They recognized it, Minister. You were mute, quiet or cynical again. For instead of responding as the minister to the plight of the parents of the students and students who were the logical consequence of your wrongdoing, you have responded with some understanding and taking responsibility, you have actually calmly allowed that repressive measures have been taken against parents and students to write payment orders and that the knowledge of the eager student has even been drawn to the judges. You've also had an extremely rude and cynical comment, the first step towards adulthood, about taking responsibility. If I look at your answers to today's interpolation, there's a lot of bubbling, beauty-telling, and a lot of unsubstantiated claims, to places as well as non-realities, such as the fact that children's institutions with special needs have worked smoothly for more time of the epidemic. No, Minister, they didn't act smoothly, they didn't act smoothly! This especially pains me because when it comes to such vulnerable groups, we run into what, Minister? – we are running into lacmus paper, with what is an indication of some of our relationship in society, our social maturity, democracy and so on, responsibilities after all. You keep repeating that the Ministry has drawn up guidelines, objectives, instructions or recommendations, as if the Ministry were a consultative body and not an executive body, about as much as it should take an active enforcement role in the field of education and education, this is the main role in the planning, adaptation and implementation of education institutions. But no, you'd rather be a silent observer and some kind of consultative body. But let's go back to the most vulnerable group that actually hurts me especially because it really is a fundamental violation of the human rights of those who need to be particularly careful. This is a group of school-bound children with special needs. I know this has been said many times today, but it is necessary to say it clearly and loudly. The doctor’s opinion remained in your drawer to open schools for them. And this is clearly revealed by the documents that the media have reached, that you have been deaf for weeks to the plight of these children and their parents, and for what it has not actually excused. That's all that's enough for you to step down immediately, nothing else, because I've listed you or what your colleagues and colleagues list today should ever happen to you. It's just enough that we have to step down immediately, not to put your hands on all the creaks, that everything seems a little pathetic. In short, there's no excuse for that. Even if you are making yourself so poor today and say that you are our guide, respected, the victim of your serviceability, your submission to John Janša, your inadequacy as a minister in such an important area, your incompetence, incompetence, incompetence and insolence, in fact, the children with special needs, as well as all the schooling youth, were in the first place immoral. I'm so sorry. This is a very serious thing, a tragic and serious thing. The fact is that by the end of last year you did not want to open the doors of schools and institutions for children with special needs despite the expert opinion of Dr. Damjan Osredkar, Head of the Clinical Department for Children, Youth and Development Neurology at the Paediatric Clinic in UKC Ljubljana. The documents unrelentingly reveal that you ignored the warnings from the profession that pointed out the enormous consequences of closing schools for 4 000 700 children and adolescents with special needs. Four thousand 700, your honor! That the government expert group on the fight against covidu-19 had already recommended to your ministry, at the beginning of December, the gradual individual opening of schools with special needs and that, nevertheless, at the Ministry, you did not prepare any plan or scenario for the opening of these schools. These are inexcusable facts, verifiable, evidentiary, and there are no distortions here. We can't pretend it wasn't like that. But you — when did you do it? It wasn't until January, and after the Constitutional Court ordered you to do so, but before that, you were a bit of a fraud to the public. You've actually deceived the public here that you don't have the green light of the profession, which was really a shameless and fat lie, and one minister can't afford it. On 3 December, the Constitutional Court ruled that decisions on distance education were invalid, that the Government had not published them in the Official Journal. Of course they are not, because Janez Janša often rules with decrees on Twitter – you and the minister are not having any problems, but you were again without an observer as if it were none of your business. What can I say? In this arrogant and governmental world, there is obviously no room for such trifling things as, say, a publication in the Official Journal. The Constitutional Court gave the Government three days to act. The documents also show that immediately after the opening of schools for children with special needs, a government expert group led by Bojana Beović was discussing. The records of this group reveal that under certain conditions it supported the individual opening of these schools at the time, even though you said you did not have this green light. More specifically, a decision on whether to open a single school for children with special needs would be made on the basis of three criteria for each group's proposal: a diagnosis of children who go to individual schools, facts whether they are schools or institutions and expectations of parents. Dr. Osredkar made it clear that distance or even absence of education during the pandemic for children with special needs is even more burdensome than others to put them under additional pressure, and especially for these children, the school process in the educational institution is intertwined with other aspects of the treatment of these children, such as physical care, physiotherapy, working therapy, speech therapy, assistance of special educators and so on. In fact, these children in the home environment cannot receive all of this, but these aspects of treatment are at least as important for children with special needs as the academic process itself, if not even more. And you knew all that, Minister, and you didn't do anything. Nothing! But you were delaying the opening of these schools until you were forced by the Constitutional Court. We don't have this expertise right now, you've been putting yourself in camera for over a week, and there's been an opinion on your desk by Dr. Centrer and also the position of the government section. I want to know how you imagine that, Minister. Like this, you're deceiving the public, at the expense of the most vulnerable children, school-bound children. So a little bit of hair is drawn to you today as a victim, like a lightning rod, in your opinion of the criminal opposition, but I don't think it's my fault when I'm talking about this case. The guilt has happened to those who haven't opened schools to them. If you actually had at least a few more honors, Minister, that's all we should do. It's up to you, well, to show us if there's anything else in you like, let's say, a conscience like dignity and honor. And I'm gonna end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Tadej Šuštar has the word, and Jože Lenart will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. The Minister of Education's interpretation is unfounded. Much has been said today, much more will be heard, and all the 20 points that the opposition has seen and cited among the reasons for the interpretation could be summed up in one thing: why we left this government and the Ministry of Education to another political option. The Minister did her work during the epidemic and in the meantime, when there was no epidemic, correctly and on the basis of all professional opinions. If we look at the school perspective, it is excellent in its final success, and there can be some slip-up, there can be some worse assessment, what a mistake, but the overall average gives a final success and we would consider it excellent. In addition to all the measures taken by the Minister for Coronavirus Epidemics and proposals in anti-Korona packages, she has also worked actively in areas other than the epidemic. Among other things, it has arranged for the conduct of pre-school and child-care activities, allowing all natural and legal persons who are listed for these activities in the Ministry's register and thereby preventing the re-emergence of the Kengurujčki case. She added the Institute of Preschool Children at Home so that the physical person at home could protect up to six people, and she also established rules on the replacement of the Ombudsman and the obligation to conclude a contract between the Ombudsman and the parents. The third very important measure in the area of preschool education, which we have been taking in New Slovenia for a long time, not only since we are in coalition, is that there has been a free kindergarten for another child in kindergarten, which he attends at the same time as an older relative and the unconditional free kindergarten for the third and subsequent children of the same family, whether older brothers and sisters are still in kindergarten or not. This is very important to regulate family policy so that young families know that the state encourages them and comes to them with the protection of children in kindergartens. At the time of the epidemic, the Ministry of Education provided funds for public and private kindergartens to cover the payout. More than €40 million was allocated to the epidemic, as well as funds for protective equipment and disinfection of premises, both in 2020 and this year. In the field of primary education, a number of achievements have been achieved in one year. Learning plans for digital content have been written as a result of distance learning, they have provided all teachers with access to distance learning and training and digital learning plans. The preparation of a single entry point for teaching resources for all teachers and students is under way, which will facilitate access to freely available educational resources as well as to the payable content of publishers. As a result of the Coronavirus epidemic, the Ministry has adapted the assessment periods of primary and music schools related to knowledge assessment, the school calendar, national knowledge verification and other content. Within the framework of job systematisation, it was possible for schools to adapt to the implementation of distance learning and to conclude an agreement with the CSOD on the possibility of transferring professional workers to primary schools. We know that primary school infections often caused shortages of teachers and other staff in schools, so such a measure was necessary and very welcome. A free, warm meal for students and students was also introduced during the distance school. In doing so, they followed the objective of providing a free, warm meal to those students and students most in need of a warm meal due to socio-economic circumstances. They cooperated with local communities that, in cooperation with schools, provided preparation and delivery of meals to those students and students who were unable to take over personally. In addition to the work during the epidemic, primary schools have also worked in other areas that were not related to the virus. Among other things, wages have increased for the classmates; the annual salary increase ranges from around €2 000 250 to €5 thousand 100 gross. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted a decision establishing the National Literacy Council, which will be composed of literacy experts and experts from the pre-school period to the third life period, covering various aspects of literacy development, and representatives of government departments key to the development of literacy. I listed only a few measures carried out by the Ministry of Education with Minister Simono Kustec in charge. Of course, I did not touch on measures in the field of study, science, sport, nor did I update computer and other equipment in educational institutions, students and students during the epidemic, providing protective equipment from pre-school education to the University for the third life period. The Minister has a lot to do, and as long as she continues with the pace she has begun, I believe that by the end of her term they will do many good things that will help people involved in education to progress and acquire new skills. I also believe that by the end of the term of office there will be a will and solution for the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That is why I will certainly not support the interpretation because I believe in a better Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word, and he will be discussed by the Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u138	Thank you, President, for your word. Yes, Your Honor, Professor Dr. Kustec. Movement, recreation, sports are of personal interest to me, and I want other people to see the movement as so important. By recreation, you're full of batteries, you're controlling your weight, you're maintaining your condition, it's a pleasure, it's a positive thinking. Just no recreation, no movement, no sports. I've run through a few marathons and half-marathons in my life, walked thousands of miles, coached for a long time and ran an athletic club. I ran a sports institution, and so I can say that from practice on sports, recreation and movement I know something and that I can tell you that, Minister, during the epidemic, you have neglected sports and recreational activities, which are also reflected in the irreparable consequences for people, especially children, and of course active athletes in clubs. As you can see, in the debate I will focus mainly on this sport activity, on recreation, because I am also somehow coming out of this area. To our distant ancestors, the very movement made it possible to survive. Our ancestors had to be fast enough, strong enough, skilled, persistent, focused, fearless. They had to have good qualities back then, if I may say so, athlete. that, of course, they were dealing with nature, defending themselves against danger, domination, finding their own living space, getting food. Today, we are not just thinking about sports as survival, but we recognize all levels, important impacts on the quality of our lives. We most often point out its impact on our health, physical and personality characteristics, such as perseverance, organization, confrontation and overcoming efforts, i.e. self-image, interpersonal relations. It is also an important branch of the economy. Movement is the foundation of preventive health and how little we invest in this area is alarming. One of the Slovenian doctors stated that in millimetres, efforts and resources are being measured so that people can understand what they can do for their health by moving, by healthy diet. On the other hand, with reckless measures, we lose this in miles, and this happens to us at the time of the epidemic, because we did not encourage and enable young people and adults to move more during the epidemic. The consequences are already and are still evident in all areas of life. The importance of movement during the epidemic was also highlighted at the 15th Congress of Sport in late November 2020. You know what I mean. They pointed out that movement and sport should be part of a solution to prevent the spread of the virus, since the resilience of the body and the spirit is the best action against the disease. Physical activity is more important at this time of epidemic than ever before. Moving is extremely important both for our body and for our psyche, reducing the risk of illness and anxiety, and therefore preventively crucial that we are both adults, younger and older, each according to our abilities, as well as children are regularly physically active. Instead of taking into account the call and recommendations of this 15th Congress of Sport for all and finding out how bad the situation among young people is because of your actions, according to Prime Minister Janez Janša and Twitter: “For most of the epidemics, lying on the couch and watching TV. The alarm still hasn't ringed because you haven't found that action is needed to encourage the population and provide safe conditions for more recreation. If you have enabled the opening of trade, freed up much of public transport, you could also allow conditions for the recreation of people, especially in nature, in the open. You must be aware that it is sport that unites us and unites us, and this is a key flaw at the time of the epidemic. The restrictions imposed on sport by the epidemic mean long-term consequences for sport both from a social and psychological point of view. Sports exercise is an important long-term investment in physical and mental health.” With restrictions, Minister, you have taken away well-built foundations for the preventive health of citizens and citizens, especially young people. Sport is a way of socializing, spending free time, connecting people and making us vulnerable to human relations. On the contrary, restrictions in sport have strengthened alienation among people. And the consequences? As we can see, the effects of measures are increased weight in children and young people, increased stiffness, poor endurance, and the motivation for movement itself has fallen. Students, students have returned to school much more restless, are more difficult to gather and focus, and are reintroduced into a routine, school demands, learning and evaluation, poorer self-control and a decline in the condition to monitor learning. It also results from restrictions on organised sports activities. All of this has been a serious warning to us for a long time. It's a line that you, a respected minister, are supposed to belong to, but you don't take the profession into account. I believe that you are aware of this, but why not take action? You really need to ask yourself what's going on with this. With all your decisions, prohibitions and restrictions, children have been deprived of an important part of general education, of opportunities to be tested in various sports challenges. Children with special needs, disabled people, elderly people who, due to physical and mental limitations, urgently need organized exercise to move at all, suffered irreparable damage due to restrictions. Since their physical motor skills are subject to a faster decline, the ban on training for this population is even worse. In addition to regular exercises, promotion sports programmes aimed at encouraging the inclusion in movement activities and awareness of the importance of sport have also been abandoned. Therefore, we can expect a drop in awareness of the meaning of sport in its entirety. Minister, with restrictions on sports and recreation, you have burdened health care. The profession is clear. Those who engage in sports, recreation, preventive health care, and this is the best investment. You're the one who stopped this from happening with the decrees. The consequences will again be irreparable and you bear full responsibility for this, not for the epidemic. And there's something else about top-notch club sports. There are also serious consequences here, which even during the epidemic could have worked under limited conditions. Since the outbreak, only 10 per cent of Slovenian registered athletes have been trained and you have limitations. Only about 7,000 athletes can train, and some more than 74,000 remaining categories are not. There are even more young people who are not registered athletes and are completely prohibited from practicing. In the coming years, we can expect a major decline in top sports and international successes due to the restrictions on sports for young perspective athletes. Ignoring the sports profession has done irreparable harm to the generation of children. According to an assessment of the studies made at the Faculty of Sport, there are about 20,000 young people who are practically lost for sport. Slovenia will no longer be on the map of countries with the highest rankings in major international competitions. This, of course, is extremely damaging because sport is an important building block of national identity and at the same time a force that promotes the nationality of the nation. The top performances of Slovenia's sport make it possible to be more recognizable than the twilight of the current government. Sport is linked to tourism, to the economy. Earlier, a German colleague had a good time with these types of sports and this big event, so I wouldn't repeat it. Minister, how much do we know how to use these big names in sports? Our top athletes for recognition, for the development of Slovenia? It is not enough to just shake hands with athletes, congratulate them and participate in the events of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, but you must stand by them, promote them and most importantly: enable them to train, both with funding and support and not only a bunch of restrictions that have been present throughout the year. We can expect that sports clubs will be in even greater trouble. We are also afraid that support for sport at local level will decline in funding the annual sport programme. In addition, the Government has shown a negative attitude towards NGOs. They are practically the most active among 27,000 NGOs in the field of sport and recreation, which have a significant impact on human health and the psychophysical development of young people as adults. See, the Government has also written down for the strategy of NGOs and it is still on this website, “in the vision of the development of Slovenia we have a well-developed, efficient, innovative and sustainable NGO sector that knows the needs of its environment and responds effectively and effectively. [[…]] He is a messenger of public interest and one form of citizen participation in the administration of the state." Look, we're proud of that, and it's right that it's still written on your ministry's website. I ask you, Madam Minister, what did you do at the time of the epidemic to enable sports companies and clubs and encourage them to find a way to participate even during the epidemic, of course taking into account the NIJZ measures. Slovenia is a green country, geographical settlement allows us to have easy access to nature without jeopardizing others. People, especially children, were home. The students were also 11 hours ahead of the computer every day due to distance learning. With your favorite measures, with instructions for project active exercises, your encouragement could significantly prevent the decline of the psychophysical abilities of young people and the distress of adults, which would also make it easier to travel through these difficult times. Unfortunately, on your part and on the part of the Government it was only possible to see and hear measures, prohibitions, closures and threats to penalties that were still on the rise. I have before me all your publications, published measures, and if I try so hard, I will find no motivation, no positive proposal. You have closed the movement between the congregations on the fact that all congregations do not even have the right opportunities for recreation. The right movement should, in my view, be an important measure in overcoming the epidemic at national level. We can say that many sports societies, organizations and clubs, despite your disfavor and even obstacles at this time, have done great work and have successfully found ways to function well. Not just them, even in health care and somewhere else. If, as Minister, at least part of the time you spent closing down education and sport activities, you were looking for the possibility of both activities at that time, the situation today would be completely different. Also in the field of psychophysical condition of young people as adults. Unfortunately, the consequences will show up even more in the future, which will have to be put back to the level we knew before the epidemic. The Government's lack of confidence in sport was not in place, as the clubs established and adopted appropriate measures for safe sports activities. At NIJS, too, there is a constant view that individual outdoor sports activities are safe and more stringent hygiene conditions and, above all, adequate ventilation are needed when moving to the halls, which clubs naturally take into account and work hard in this area. Sport is an organised and disciplined activity that is already basically subordinated to compliance with the rules in implementation, so it is possible to show through sport the way to re-open Slovenian society, respect for measures in a way that limits the risks of infections that could endanger the health system and the health care most endangered. However, the Government also operates entirely on its own initiative in the field of sport during the epidemic. In the field of sport and recreation and sports education, Minister, during the epidemic, you have done significantly more harm than good; by taking harmful measures and decisions of course. You have been warned of the consequences all the time by your profession, but in vain, you have not heard them — more likely your leader did not allow you to do so. Dear Minister, you are an expert in this field and we expected you, especially from you, to justify your role. Bravo Minister, Dr Simona Kustec, very good task and analysis of the Slovenian state of sport and the 2012 proposals, but today as Minister of Education, Science and Sport you are no longer what reflects this task. You're far from it! I have reviewed this task in detail at the time and now again, and therefore I say that you are not now as Minister. Unfortunately, you have all the time complicated by new and new measures and decrees dictated by your great leader. So you have wasted our trust, people's trust, the trust of children and athletes in this area. But not only trust, but also the health of children, the success of our athletes and the development of associated activities, which are also many. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, and Leon Merjasec will discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! A while ago, at one of the press conferences, you said you were aware that the citizens were angry with you. You also said that you are angry with yourself, and today I completely understand that you are angry, but certainly, if you are angry, you should do something and make your resignation statement today, because you took over one of the most important ministries, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, on 13 March 2020, and on all these three issues you have passed the exam. This time of epidemic, which was – the minister is leaving, I don't think she wants to hear what I'm going to ask her, but nothing, so she's going to have to look at the tape or she doesn't care what we're talking about here today. I believe you'll pass it on. But I would like to be accompanied as an ex-partner today by what I'm going to say and where my shoes sting, but they don't want to. Let's move on. At this time of the epidemic, we will all be remembered with great pain. It is a sad fact that we have lost a number of human lives, by the number of deaths per thousand inhabitants, we belong to the very top of the European Union. Our consequences, which have been done by this government, will be seen for a long time in the economic, social and most saddened to see in the educational sphere as well. We all speak, and I think the Minister is also aware that children are our greatest wealth. At the time of the epidemic, they were abandoned and suppressed along the edges. And indeed, the Minister should be aware that at the time of the epidemic it is really about children, as we often like to say. Our children. The consequences will be indescribable. Personally, I have pointed out many times in my speeches that we are talking about a lost generation of children. Even though those words are really bad, time will tell whether I was right or wrong. The epidemiological profession was very careful when closing schools. Unfortunately, the minister did not follow their suggestions. She was responsible for schools, principals, teachers, parents. The undeniable fact is also that education has been left to the mainstream. And somehow I'd understand that the same planning was for education at the time of the first wave, and I'm not going to agree to it at the time of the second wave. During the months of July, August, and at that time we should not sleep, but we should work, prepare for the affairs of the second wave, because it was already indicated that there was a second wave ahead of us. Everyone, including the Prime Minister of the Government, predicted that the second wave would be significantly worse and indeed, it happened. And what happened? Education was left in the second wave. The Ministry responded a number of weeks later, which was totally unacceptable in primary school. Important things should be organised immediately, not waiting and expecting children, their parents and teachers to patch up holes in education and education. This is where I'm going to touch school education remotely. The minister's four. 1. 2021 in Studio City declared that we are one of the leading countries in Europe that is able to offer distance education at this time. Which means that everyone, both teachers and students, is trained with appropriate communication technology, equipment, knowledge that this education can also take place. That the Minister does not speak completely truly and that is not the case, it has been clearly written to the web site, “I do not know any comparative research that would currently systematically measure what the Minister is talking about. This information is simply not available. ” That's a quote. In doing so, I have reason to wonder whether all children have really listened and participated in distance learning. Since a lot of these kids didn't have a camera on in school, what was he doing with distance education? Did he listen to the substance? Did his teachers attract him to listen? Believe me, from my own experience, I'm saying it wasn't like that. Next. What happened to the weakest, most vulnerable population of Roma children? Today I don't think anyone's ever talked about them. Did they have all the conditions for distance training? Did they participate in distance learning? Who explained the additional substance to them? Because in the school process, they have extra professional help. Next. Did foreign students have conditions for schooling? That is to say, those who at the end of the day do not fully speak the Slovenian language. A lot of people didn't understand what was being explained to them from a distance. Did teachers monitor and encourage children to participate in distance learning? A lot of people didn't do that. Among these children who studied remotely were children who had decisions made by children with special needs. And they should be drawn to cooperation. These have lost months and months of much needed knowledge. Yes, and at the same time, teachers also pointed out that a comprehensively organised distance education would be needed with the necessary software, as many of the teachers who faced distance learning did not have any prior knowledge. Teacher education was thus abandoned or abandoned only within the framework of his good will and the resources of the individual school. It is also not self-evident that teachers and schools have an equivalent infrastructure to carry out long-distance education and that the Ministry should also take care of this. The guidance provided by the State institutions responsible for the education of children should be uniform and binding for all schools in order to ensure that students, teachers and parents are not subject to individual decisions or prevent an individual collective. In fact, vague and non-binding guidelines lead to additional unnecessary deepening of differences between children, as is evident today. In addition to many cases, epidemiologists have also confirmed that the main source of infections is not schools, but the working environment. At NIJ, it was found that in just a quarter of the cases it was a job. But look at the fraction that the minister pointed out in her opening presentation that according to the NIJ, I quote, “we have already seen 20.5% of the employees in kindergartens, 8% in primary schools, and 6% in secondary schools or in other words” – listen to – “145,000 of all employees mentioned today, some less than 11,000 positive cases are active in this period, some over 5,000 in the last week”. Your Honor, did you hear what you said? 145 thousand of all the school staff mentioned. However, when you look at the data that the follower's co-vid gives, there have been active confirmed cases of 200 thousand 579. Is this information real? Has anyone checked that data? Does this mean that only 60,000 other active confirmed cases have been reported elsewhere? I don't think that's gonna happen. But yes, that's a rhetorical question for someone else, and here it would also have to be clarified whether we're stating the correct data. The Minister also claims that schools are an important place for the transmission of infections to schools without serious professional arguments. Even so, it is also at this press conference, and today we have seen this graph about education and education infections. However, it is not entirely consistent to explain what the data are, by what methodology these data were collected by who analysed them. We've seen it today, too, so it's true who's cheating here or who's lying here. I must also touch that the Minister of Parents, Children, Students, Students, Students has been abandoning and keeping students completely insecure all the time. It was never clear when and how they would return to kindergarten, elementary school, high school, and college. And by the time we get to drop out of high school, it's 2nd and 3rd year, or 1, 2nd and 3rd year in the school process, forget that children attending high school are not from that place, but they have to get there, that some have to go on two buses, that they need to buy a monthly ticket. It is also forgotten that a month’s ticket is then sought in one day, and the type before this issue of monthly tickets is endlessly long. That's what you forget. Not to mention those students who had to organize themselves within one day, including schools, student homes, that children had been admitted to student homes, that is what was forgotten. It was the time of one day that all things had to be prepared. Things need to be prepared, organized, and prepared to get things better. The non-censored web portal also clearly obtained information that part of the group had already proposed opening by the end of November, according to this expert commission, proposed the opening of schools on 7 December for the first triad and in particular for children with special needs. Although the release plan was adopted as the only source of information regarding the criteria for opening kindergartens and schools, the government's plan was overrun the next day. In December, the government preferred to open up the economy – an economy rather than an education. And yes, this is where the secretary failed her exam again. The pressure of the President of the Government and the Minister of Economic Affairs, or today the Minister of State for State Support is the Minister of Education and they have left the room – and they have spoken again in their own way. Always with the calls, the minister always spoke, let us endure a little while longer, for it will be, bear with me a little while longer; but what we have been waiting for, and what we have been waiting for. At last we have come so far as to have children in school, but the lost time is indescribable and the damage done will be immeasurable. I would also like to point out, or point out, that, during this period, the competent minister has never clearly told the students and their parents why children are not allowed to go to school, although there are other releases in the field of services and other economic activities. Even for children with special needs, they have remained closed without any plan to open them. And yes, today we have heard what this means, and all Members have received calls or thanks from children with special needs who have returned to the school process, what this means to them. I have to say, I was moved when I read this, and these are our children with special needs. And the Constitutional Court had to say that children had to go back to school. Well, that's really strange. And yes, as far as relaxation plans are concerned, it was not actually prepared, it was not the profession that communicated, but the daily policy, which was guided by partial, private and political interests. Publicity, schools, teachers, teaching professions, parents, students, students and students were and are still in uncertainty about the course of education today. Instead of establishing an environment as predictable as possible in the context of the epidemic, we have received conflicting statements from the Presidents of the ruling policy and the constant shaking of what the next tweet of the Prime Minister will tell us when the competent minister is silent. Monday, 25. 1. 2021, the day before the first triad was to return, the Minister wished that tomorrow would be a beautiful day, while the President of the Government in this National Assembly answered the question of the opening of schools for the first triad that he did not know whether the next day would begin at all. Such incoherence, confusion, unpredictability, uncertainty, communication between parents in one way or another has not been how they should organize their work and their professional lives, and children and adolescents who, of course, wanted to normalize the situation have caused much distress and mistrust. It was entirely justified, normal and expected that some parents and children decided to express their dissatisfaction with peaceful meetings and other forms of protest against such school policies. But the minister didn't talk them into it, nor did she get in their way when the Prime Minister accused them of being guilty of spreading infections. And yes, Minister, this is where you failed your exam again. And I'm a distinguished minister, a former fellow Member of Parliament, and you let me down during your ministry. In particular, because you have not been able to respond to all the difficulties of education and have submitted yourself to the policies of the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word and is to be prepared for Luke the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Only one or a few of us, present today in this Chamber, knew at the beginning of 2020 whether they knew that Slovenia was not ready to deal with the covid-19 virus and then with the epidemic. This is why a new government, a new coalition, has been formed in which Professor Simona Kustec, as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, also performs her work. The year 2020 was the year it had not yet been. In the field of education and education, it was necessary to ensure that the educational process was carried out smoothly in the shadow of solving the problems associated with covid-19. The spread of the virus also required the closure of schools, but for distance education was ensured optimally smooth implementation of educational plans. Of course, there have been problems and there are, since this is a great challenge for all stakeholders: for students, students, students, teachers, professors and also for parents. At the outset, there was also a strong emphasis on registering students and students who had difficulties in setting up long-distance education because they did not have their personal computers. Here goes the praise of everything, the Ministry, schools, parents, donors, to enable an optimal solution to this problem. For all primary and secondary schools, a free warm meal was introduced in the distance during the school period; the ministry increased salaries for the students due to their uninterrupted work; written curricula for digital content; prepared legal provisions to mitigate the consequences of the covid epidemic; increased funding for education and education and sport, also for scientific research activities; strengthened assistance for sports and athletes; enabled students to pay the solidarity allowance; prepared guidelines for long-distance implementation schools and many other solutions and assistance in the field of education, science and sport. Interpellators state that the Ministry, the Minister, does not take account of the epidemiological profession in the opening and closing of schools. The documents themselves show that this is not the case, since they held meetings and consultations with the NEO throughout 2020 and are also being held this year. I'm worried about something else. The opposition is not prepared to help, to work together to defeat this covid-19 virus. Instead, they make fun of what is evident on their social networks, as well as the actions of the National Assembly itself. With such actions, opposition colleagues as opinion leaders have influenced people to disregard the measures and set an example and thus to the faster third wave covid-19. The opposition's behaviour will make it even more difficult for us to dig out of the covid-19 virus. Therefore, the distinguished minister, all that was said today by the opposition, in my opinion, is not an interpolation, but an inquisition. It doesn't matter, but it's your fault. It's your fault. Under the circumstances, Minister Simona Kustec has acted and operates in accordance with the law and in good faith that children, students, students, students are safely continuing education in an unknown way, since we have not yet experienced such conditions. That's why Minister Simon Kustec has my support and I won't support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u143	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to answer my colleague from SDS briefly when he spoke about how the opposition in some way contributed to the fact that the virus would not get angry or that people did not take the virus seriously. I'm surprised at your statements, even though what we heard today in the course of the debate and what the Government has actually done or has not done to successfully anger the virus. I think the government here is the one who literally passed the exam on this. That's what the data shows, that's what the facts show, that's not what the opposition is inventing. The opposition was constructive all the time. In all the PKPs, she tried to help with advice, complementing things to make things better, but the government never heard us and never heard us. But the government used all these so-called anti-Korona measures for other things. She put in them so-called motivators. You know, I have already asked the Minister several times today, but I have not yet received an answer as to what the PKP6 measure is like when private higher education institutions were allowed to extend their accreditation without being retested or tested. And what about the meeting with Mr. Jambrek and Mr. Abel at your ministry a few days earlier? I think it is right for the Slovenian public to find out what was actually going on and what was the purpose of the anti-Korona action, as it were, in sayings. Please do not say that the opposition is responsible for this catastrophic situation that has taken place in Slovenia. If we survived the first wave in some way and with encouraging numbers, the second wave was a disaster. This catastrophe did not happen because of the opposition, nor did it happen because of people, what Janša’s government likes to stress. It didn't happen because of people. It happened because of this government because this government is incompetent and apparently lacked confidence in people and was instituting measures that did not alleviate or limit the epidemic, but were spreading and increasing the power of the government of Janez Janša. She abused the government's epidemic to establish total and absolute power. And these are the facts, dear colleagues. Also, the fact that schools were closed for such a long time did not make an absolute contribution to the epidemic. When the schools opened, did the number of infections increase? No, they didn't. They didn't, Madam Secretary, they didn't! The data shows that there's not, and there's something else. And something else; you always blame the children in some way, you blame them, that they are the ones who spread the epidemic forward, and the older ones, and I don't know what – the data doesn't show it. There is sure to be some kind of transmission across children, but the data show that the epidemic is at least spreading through children. I'm asking you so nicely, well, really, we're more specific about these matters and correct. Madam Minister, I now ask you to answer me about the PKP6 provisions regarding the extension of accreditation and the minutes that have come to the media between you and representatives of the New University. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't want to show pictures. There are clear tweets here. “In autumn we will also have a second wave in schools. Are there psychics in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or are they simply frightening people? Why already?" Comrade Jani – the mask of the square. Mr. Marko – the mask of the square. Vice-President of the National Assembly. And that's due to the actions that are in red numbers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As a proponent? Here you go, Mr. Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u148	I have to answer that. Look, this is what I've been waiting for you to point out. I'd be happy to answer that. I'm Mr. Pogačnik again, and I'll do it again now, if necessary. Indeed, in June or late May, when the epidemic was not actually in Slovenia, I really took off my mask and I proposed to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Zorčič, that these rules change. And a few days later, these rules also changed. However, there was a period when there were no infections in Slovenia for a few days. That's when we warned you, you know, if the measures are pointless or out of order, they have the opposite effect. [[…]] It's the same thing as today we're alerting you to a curfew that doesn't make any sense, and you insist. I don't know why – because you're afraid that your people will rise up at night, but I don't know who. You know what? You can't screw me with this if you think you're calling me "that's when you put the mask down." I gave it to you, and if the situation were the same, I would have done exactly the same. But since this is not the case today, I have a mask up — don’t I? However, Mr Hojs, the suspended minister, if we have already removed the same vats for all, the suspended minister at the time of the biggest epidemic growth, when schools have begun to close down, here for this payphone he removed the mask and then said, how, since we are at a distance, we are at a distance. We can't talk without it. Not to mention Madam Minister, when I didn't want to expose this because it's not your biggest sin, I'm sorry, ma'am, it really isn't. But when you took a picture of yourself at the OKS dinner without a mask, you sat together eating well, and everyone else had to eat in the offices, because there was no restaurant in the National Assembly anymore. And that's a bad example, and that's a bad example. And I don't know who the bad example of the students is when you've been telling them how to behave. Please don't say that the opposition is to blame for not knowing what the epidemic is spreading because it isn't. The opposition wanted to come across and help you, but you didn't listen. But you did not listen because your goal is not to limit the epidemic, but something else — to change Slovenia, to make another republic, and you are working hard on it. Perhaps not you, your esteemed minister, forever, but your boss. That's why it's even more incomprehensible for me that you don't see it and do something to watch or blink your shoulder when the Slovenian Press Agency is being destroyed, when public television is being destroyed, when in the end you are directly destroying Slovenian public education, public universities, by giving candy to private people through some PKPs and creating parallel new universities. It was the same in Hungary: a new university, a new national agency, a new television and so on. Let's get married, please, and see what we're actually doing. As for Jambrek University, please, Minister, not only do you owe to the Slovenian public to answer what was actually happening at the time and what anti-korona action is this. How did you prevent the spread of the epidemic by giving Jambrek money for his private school? A new university, a new Slovenian university or what it will be called in those new beautiful times of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u149	The replica has Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u150	She's very pretty. I'm replicating Mr. Merjasco. Now, I'm very sorry that he left the hall, but it's extremely wrong that he swung a hundred seconds with a picture of the vice president, where it didn't look at all, what it showed, from what context he took this picture, from any event or committee, anything. At this point, my fellow Member would ask – I hope that you will tell his colleagues from SDS – to show this picture once again, to put it in some time frame, in some dimension, and then manipulate these pictures and photographs and with some inventions. Because it is extremely unfair that when we have a parallel interpretation against the Minister, Mrs Kustec, you in the coalition, without making all your efforts to defend her properly, professionally, with arguments, with her work, do not you defend her by discrediting all of us with some pictures. Well, please, that's not even appropriate, I don't know, for the worst gentleman, Mr. Merjasec! So kindly please show this picture and tell us what the problem was, what context you took it from, and not discredit me, if you discredit me, nothing to me, nothing to you, here is Mrs Vice President and extremely unworthy of you. [[…]] If you do not have any other arguments to defend Madam Minister, then yes, you do not have any help and only say that the coalition structure, the voting machine of the coalition, really works only in such a way that you discredit everyone else, examine all the arguments, all the evidence, just because you can because you have a coalition majority. Then I'll finish. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon. Get Michael Prevc ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I think this debate today shows that we are in the wrong world. Today, a minority is at risk, and power, criticism of power, is called the core of democratic regulation, and is treated as hate speech. Today we have the Minister of Education, Higher Education, Science and Sport, after training the doctor of political science who sits in front of us and gives this a certificate. When it is criticized, it is not only Mr Merjasec who said it herself and is on the cover of the government portal Siol.net, she said that what is happening to it today is inquisitorial accounting – this is a quote: “inquisitorial accounting”. So where were we? The Minister's interpretation, based on the Constitution provided, if you wish, the mechanism the opposition has to place the authority before the responsibility, the Minister, after the training of the doctor of political science, treats it as an inquisitorial reckoning. If I move on. Now that she's making herself a victim, she's learned this very well from her boss – I use the word boss because I read on Twitter to call it that now, to the Prime Minister of the Government – she learned from her boss that it's best when you're placed in front of a critic or when you're found on the wrong side, to simply make yourself the biggest victim of some conspiracy theory or the victim of inquisitorial accounting if I borrow your expression. But actually you have to look at things a little differently. On February 9th, after five months of school closing, students organized a small symbolic protest, all wearing masks, having an appropriate safety distance, some holding banners and what their demands were. Imagine that one or two years ago, and everyone would have said that they had lost their minds. The banner said, "Open the schools." Open schools, after five months of having a minister who's just quiet, do nothing, cheat his back. After five months, they came with a simple request to have schools open. And what happened? The full-year students who attended the protest received 400 euros in fines, and undergraduate students had to go to court, Matic Goršku, a third-year student who spoke at the protest and threatened up to 4,000 euros in fines. Up to 4,000 euros in fines for demanding the opening of schools at the protest! What did the secretary do? She was quiet about all of this, or even said that the students protested at their own risk without in any way trying to understand that these students were the victims of the longest closure of schools in the region. No! No! According to her, these students protested at their own expense, i.e. that some should pay 400 euros, the other 4,000, and a third would go to the magistrate for their crimes because they demanded the opening of schools. Who's the victim here now? Are you, Minister? Or if I make another case. When the Prime Minister of the Government voluntarily decided on 29 January, it is said that a good week before this protest that just before the confirmation of admission to college and higher education, just before the informative day he dropped the invitation to play with the fate of thousands and thousands of future students, and finally the faculty, academic staff, researchers, on which they depend on jobs, their salaries – on admission, you were silent. Well, that's an unprecedented precedent! In the beginning, you were talking about conspiracy theories, deceptions, lies, manipulations and discord, and there you could see from the argument of the Prime Minister why this call was stopped. He stopped it precisely to sow discord, a double. The first point of the controversy that he tried to sow with this is the fictitious division into sociology and nature, when it comes to lazy sociologists, good naturalists. He also lied extensively about what comparative statistics in Europe, when no country in Europe has as many registered sociologists as Slovenia, and, of course, as soon as the data have been verified, it turns out that this is nonsense and that we are completely comparable with Austria and Germany and that the relationship in Britain is much more in favour of society. You've been quiet about all this, and in the end, he's attacked the last professional you come from. Secondly, what I think is even worse and possibly more harmful to the state of the spirit in Slovenian society at this time, it has not only been to sow a dispute between sociologists or to create a dispute between sociology and nature, it has done so to turn public opinion against the university as such against people who are educated. You as a political scientist could read something. In recent years, much has been said about how the extreme right, with Trump on the forehead, used this sentiment effectively, when people working with their hands against people working with their heads. This is where our Prime Minister of the Government did exactly that, and you've been quiet all along. When 14,000 members of the academic community resisted it and there they wrote themselves that it was a toy with their destiny, that it was an attack on the basis of the development of Slovenian universities, and they all signed from the Institute of Joseph Stefan to all three public universities and so on, it happened — what? Your party president Zdravko Restoršek went to these people's minds to think a little bit about how we lack drivers of heavy trucks and builders. And you were quiet. In short, you're not a victim. You're just a minister to legitimize the demolition of what you're supposed to be defending yourself or what you're supposed to be standing for. We have, according to universities and academic communities, the very destruction of the foundations of development – and you are silent. We have protests from students who demand the opening of schools and receive up to four thousand euros in penalties if they dare to speak, in 2021 in a free and democratic state – and you are silent or say you have done so on your own account. And finally, you're not just a minister of education, you're also a member of the government. And as a member of the government, you have all the responsibility for the fates of young students and students who have found themselves in a very difficult material situation because of covid. Students are virtually everyone on the list because they work in the restaurant, service sector and so on and are living out of it, while scholarships are smaller, lost their jobs and income. Students had to return to their parents in a mass way because they were no longer able to pay rent. According to your decree, students had to leave their dormitory. For more than a year, it was impossible for people to grow up and get on their feet. And I didn't hear you once, Madam Minister, so you could come and say something about these people. To say something about students who lost their jobs, about students who lost their apartments, about students who were sent home waiting for an indefinite time, when they could continue to study or do something with their lives. I didn't hear you once, but even though the media were full of testimonies, their stories about how they were experiencing anxiety, distress, depression. We've been here all day listening to how these people have been practically now, I don't know, five months or one year on some kind of vacation. And you're quiet. Last but not least, you're quiet when we're listening to – from the right-wing tribune this summer – incredible nonsense, lies, falsifications, manipulations and conspiracy theories if I use your terms. We've heard that winter-green edge of the far right, which is now in trouble, that Slovenian schools are supposed to wash their children's heads with so-called LGBT ideology. We have heard how Slovenian schools should exclude Slovenian writers from their curriculums. I don't know where else to find this, but that's what we heard. And we heard, after all, that children don't learn to write with their fingers anymore, but like this, with a monkey's hand. These are all spoken today by those who will support you at the interpolation – and you are silent! Here we have heard in this hall that our children write like this in schools, after monkeys, with fists, and you didn't deny it either. What did you do in one year for education or higher education in Slovenia, except that you kept your mouth shut and left someone else to rule or to run things for you? I don't know. Even if you withdraw immediately today, I will not see any harm, even if by the end of your term of office your city remains empty, unoccupied, because of you, Madam Minister, there is absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing! And that's why, of course, I'm going to support your interpellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u153	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u154	But there are some things that need to be replicated and come back to reality, and I'm not going to tell you which planet. Let's stop at the entry that was supposed to be stopped. It's right that he was stopped. Because he was stopped, we have 50 more places in Medical School, colleague of the moon. And we're going to have 50 more students in this college account where there's a big manoeuvring. I also don't know what you're having trouble getting some minister to say it's a problem with the masonry professions. Are you humiliating the workers? Yeah, sorry, that's what you said. The fact is, we also got more places at the Faculty of Informatics, which is still very important. And don't talk about someone destroying colleges! Is there any less of a social situation? There's no one less. You're talking nonsense. Next time, about the student protests. Stop and don't talk about all the students again, so we don't go name-calling, who's the protagonist of the student protests. But one thing is, 12 percent of the students just responded to wanting to go back to school now that this is an epidemiological situation, 12 percent of the poll. How many protested, however, the number is still significantly smaller. And a lot of people have been studying. And the fact is, if someone breaks the law, this applies to everything the same, not to “yours and ours”. Realize once and find out, if you don't know the other one, that they can't be different rules; they must all be the same in this country. I really don't get it. Today we have to sing praises to those who are obviously — I am not an organ, that is, the one who is an organ and knows what he was doing there — but today the praises of those who are against the measures, and on the other hand the children and students who went to school are not mentioned at all. And that seems normal to you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Regarding the blockage of college enrolment, Mrs. Žibert. 50 extra seats, you say, for medicine. Open the evening, the Evening Officer, where it says: Will the Ljubljana Medical Faculty reject government plans? The Dean of Ljubljana's Medical Faculty, Igor Švab, made it clear to the media that the proposed increase in enrolment is not feasible without a simultaneous solution to spatial and human resources problems. And that's, I think, the most symptomatic proof of what Janez Janša did. He, once again, voluntarily decided to stop the call and from some of his own caprice, I don't know where he pulled these numbers, then proved his own at that humiliation on Brdo pri Kranj, where he possessed the rectors of public universities and compared them with the dean of private institutions in this country and said, yes, we will now determine which cities you will call. No question, no reason! The result of what you're boasting about is that the Medical School doesn't even have the capacity to do what you did. And if a year were to be prepared, or if in some normal time it were to be prepared, it would be another story, but it was some whim of the Prime Minister of the Government who decided to step down, I don't know, for two weeks in the shoes of the Ministry of Education, and he himself will determine how they will apply for vacancies in colleges this year. As far as the builders are concerned. No one humiliates the builders. But Minister Restovalšek, when he comes to the consultation with higher education workers, with the rectors, with representatives of research institutions and says that these institutions, real universities and higher education institutions, have to think about how to provide more drivers of trucks and builders in Slovenia, then this is, excuse me, pure mockery from academics and from professors in universities. We can all agree that more such jobs are needed, I think, to provide staff for these jobs, but let them be paid better. Let the minister arrange it in some way, but not to oppose, say, raising the minimum wage – which is why we do not have such workers. But this is an attack on a public university like Luke said before. The attack, which was continued at this time by the minister and, of course, by John Janša, because the minister serves only as a cover for what Janez Janša is trying to do; and this is in fact the third dissension made by John Janša. So, the difference between public and private. All these moves, the blocking of the call, the ban on hiring new researchers in public institutions, and I don't know, PKP6 and Jambrek's accreditation without extension. These are all the signs that Janez Janša wants to privatize public education or public higher education. And with all these measures, of course, going to a public university, he favors his friendly private institutions. This is humiliating for a school space in this country. Janez Janša is humiliating for the school space in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u158	If we worked harder, and we were less involved with Janez Janša, that would be good, but let's just leave it. Once again: 50 more cities. You're not dealing with what someone said today, and that's not gonna happen. You know, this government was able to provide additional facilities at the Clinical Center within 10 days when they were a series of years. And this government really didn't give consent to the entries. But I agree with you on something that the predecessors have done. What was done in these matters a year ago? And as for the medical profession, we've known for years that it's a manka. Look, we can compare employment needs, and you'll see where the manco is and who's easier to employ. That's what children need to be told. Why don't you tell them which colleges and colleges will be easier to work with in the future? Are you able to say this, or are you only able to defend what you feel you need to defend because of such and other political decisions? But seriously, we need to talk once about what we need in the future. The fact is, there are now 50 more places here and we have two colleges; in Maribor and in Ljubljana. I believe there will be room for all of these new enrollees to go to college that they might not be able to reach because this level would be too high. And these 50 cities will make it possible for them to do so. We all know what it's like. As far as the rest is concerned: I don't know, this is how you speak today through the Minister and everything, because, you know, we also have a problem with, for example, the graduation committee. I'd expect a lot more than that. But you know who the president is? Look, let's get some clean wine. Well, there's one thing that needs to be moved a little bit further. And don't keep dealing with concessions, privates, public education. Let's make an education that will make people so excited about him. This is important! There won't be any alternatives. I don't know what the problem is. But let's make it exciting. Don't be afraid of competition. Do what is necessary and improve. But the easiest thing to do is to always sit in opposition – of course to scream.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The text shall first be given by Marko Koprivc, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, in this place after the implementation of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert would really have one question for the Minister. Specifically. Speaking of these 50 additional places, Mrs. Bah Žibert, I would like a clear answer, are there really conditions and means for these 50 additional places? In fact, I have very reliable information that this is not the case; there are no funds and conditions available for these 50 additional sites. Please don't fool the Slovenian public. All that is true is that the Prime Minister of the Government wanted to create a gap between sociology and nature on the one hand and he wanted to give the wind to the Ministry and say, wow, and this time I will decide, not them. And he went over all the agreed rules and stopped the call at the point when it shouldn't be done anymore. The victim of all this was Secretary of State Dr. Gasparič. Please, this is some kind of ideological battle, a cultural war, it doesn't take all of this anywhere. And again today, the minister is just looking at the mute. He's just looking! I had already wanted a clear answer to what was actually going on with this invitation to tender. Because this is why the Secretary of State flew away, on the other hand Mrs Škrynjar said that everything was fine and everything was in accordance with the rules and as it should have been. For my understanding, this is a major intervention in the autonomy of public higher education in Slovenia and an attempt to have an illegal impact, in some way to create a refocused education, if you understand. Now, as for these so-called student protests. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, let's try to live up to the role of parents, but we're not Members of the left here, but the right doesn't know what. What would you do if your child, a teenager, came to the market to protest – in narrations because it was not a classic protest, it was a symbolic protest. In fact, these children were keeping a safe distance, sticking to all the rules of the epidemic, and so on — and would come to the conclusion that they wanted to go to school. I think it would be hard to criticize him for that. It seems to me that something perfectly understandable and normal and even positive, if children want to, after they have failed to establish dialogue with the Minister, to point out that they want to go to school. That's all they said they wanted to go to school. And that's why they got fines. By respecting all the measures. All the measures were respected. All measures taken. So someone waiting in line for testing or entering a store doesn't violate your actions, but they don't keep a safe distance, but someone who warns that they want to go to school is being punished for it. But I mean, what kind of country do we live in? Instead of protecting them to be their guardian, their lawyer, she said that this was a perfectly reasonable measure, that these children, students, whatever they are, must take responsibility and that this is one of the steps of entering adulthood. The fact that they're being punished because they want to go to school! Horrible, really. I'm not saying I don't know what they want me to do, I don't know what they're doing; but no, they just wanted to go to school. And first they wanted to talk to the secretary. So really here in some way, let's try to rationally look at what's actually going on in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u161	The text is by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u162	Thank you, Vice President, again. Now I know more, whether we're making a fool here or not, or nobody knows what we're talking about anymore; but if we're talking about 50 additional places in Medical School and somebody tells me not to look at what someone says in a newspaper and this is a dean of the Medical Faculty who says they can't perform five more places, then I think – what? Who are we talking to? Will Janez Janša come to medical school and dean there for a few days to sort things out? I mean, that's crazy. Second thing. In those two weeks, has there been any analysis that you are now referring to? You say we need these 50 additional informatics and 50 additional doctors at the Faculty of Medicine. Where is this analysis? But this is the analysis that Janez Janša did on Twitter, where the total is more than 103 percent? Probably not. This was, Your Honor, an attempt by John Janša to save his face when he saw what he did when he stopped the call. There is no question about it, for there would probably be other profiles if you were dealing with this matter for another day and tried to push it further. As far as competition is concerned. I agree that higher education should be interesting; and I believe I know it is. There are many programs, including a large number of study programmes, that run with restrictions on entry due to interest. However, it is not a public higher education space of competition and must never be and must never become. This obviously means that this competition is such that Mr Jambrek and Mr Avblje come to the Mišš to lobby to look through their fingers because they do not meet the conditions for accreditation because they are not quality enough to maintain funding. If this is the competition you promote in higher education, then we are just before the collapse. Therefore, this difference between public and private is important, not competition. I mean, what are you talking about? As far as the event in Maribor is concerned. Here I would suggest that the Minister somehow align himself with the Members of the SDS, they insist that it is right to punish them and so forth, but before, the Minister made some sort of salto mortal when she said no, no, because I thought that by doing so he commended them for essentially doing the right thing because they were responsible, because they had a distance between themselves and masks, that it was some kind of support. Otherwise, one month later it denies that statement as understood by the whole of Slovenia in the way we did. It sounds like some kind of depravity or arrogance over them, but agree here whether it's support for these students now or whether it's building up to these students. I think you're making it very clear here that you're actually creeping up more and more with every intervention because you're defending yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] I already gave him my word when he's done, you'll get it right away. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of education and education, as we all know, was primarily aimed at addressing the challenges of the covida-19 epidemic last year. Thus, educational institutions were forced to close their doors in March and establish distance education. This fact was a great challenge for all, both for students, students, students and for all teachers and, finally, for parents. Our educational system was practically unprepared for this measure. The Minister, who had barely entered her term of office, approached her colleagues immediately after the closing of the schools to introduce distance education in a proactive manner. We can very soon see that, given the situation, the educational system has responded very well to this measure, as it has already been established in the worst two weeks of long-distance education without adequate previous experience in such a way that it has worked well. After those initial problems with overcrowding systems, the educational process, despite the changed learning environment, continued to take place in all primary and secondary schools and institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs. In addition, particular emphasis was placed on registering those students and students who were not involved in distance education, and particular emphasis was placed on establishing contacts with all those students, taking into account the different technical capabilities. With the testimony of the interpellation motioners that the Minister's actions in the area of education and education during the epidemic were unprofessional, inconsistent, ineffective and even harmful, I cannot agree at all. I must say, I cannot agree with you at all! It saddens me that you do not want to understand the difficult task of the Minister in dealing with her co-workers right at the beginning of her term of office. The education and education system and the teaching profession have been completely unprepared for distance education, and no Minister of Education, Science and Sport has ever faced such a difficult project in the history of Slovenia alone, and before. I was able to convince myself, not least in monitoring distance education in my children and my grandchildren, all from primary school and all the way through high school to university education, that the perceptions of interpolation candidates on non-professional, inefficient and even harmful policies in the area of education and education during the epidemic were fully justified. We have been able to make sure that all stakeholders in the educational process are: from the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education to the Education Inspectorate, the Centre for School and Educational Activities, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education and others, and could also mention that all of these stakeholders have yet to face professionally and effectively all the challenges associated with the epidemic. The Minister also managed to establish cooperation with the general public, the public directly linked or involved in education and education. These are primarily parents, then employees in education and education, principals, teachers and, finally, founders of educational institutions. Together with all the stakeholders I have listed, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has taken key decisions on the difficult organisation of education and education at the time of the epidemic, on the basis of an epidemiological picture and recommendations of the National Institute for Public Health. I am convinced that all these decisions have been professional and, last but not least, also effective and have allowed, under given conditions, the educational process to take place as smoothly as possible. Of course, students, students, and students have been deprived of a wide range of education, and we all know that. We also know that many among them, including many parents, have found themselves in severe distress. However, we must be aware that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that the educational process can be carried out in these epidemiological conditions. The epidemiological picture at a given time is the one that tells us whether it is safe in terms of health for students, students and teachers. Provide a safe and stimulating learning environment, however, must be a key objective of the Slovenian education system. I am sure that the Minister is well aware of this, and therefore I cannot support the interpretation against her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Procedurally, where is he now? There. Mr. Marko Koprivc, you wanted the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Although procedurally, it has priority before the next debate, so I expected to get my word sooner. But I just wanted to warn the Minister or you, the president, to warn her that in some way it would make sense to get some answers from the outside, because a bunch of things we asked and we don't get any answers, so I don't know. But it makes him feel that he doesn't listen to us at all, that he's on the phone, or he's talking to his colleagues. I think this is very unfair and disrespectful to an institution like the National Assembly. So I don't know, Mr Vice President, let me appeal a little bit to the fact that some dialogue is going on between us and the Minister, who is here today in some way at the hearing or we expect answers and clarifications from her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u167	Mr Koprivc, I'll tell you about the procedure first. Be more careful, sir, he's already got the word and I can't interrupt him in the middle. First time. Secondly, as a proponent, I don't know why you're wasting your time on procedure. You always get a word as a proponent, but you're obviously using something. Here you go, as a proposalant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u168	Vice President, you surprise me with these interventions. Obviously, do not distinguish between a procedural proposal and a substantive one. Because I wanted to warn you that you're taking care of the correct procedure. In any case, I could not say this as a proposal, but it was a procedural proposal. I ask you so kindly, I ask you, President, do not somehow force us to report wrongly to the word. But I'd like you to remind the Minister of what I've warned you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u169	Madam Secretary has heard. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go. Let's get Dr. McKinley ready. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Member and Members and viewers in front of small screens! It is true that, for the client of the SAB, a strong and accessible public education value is of paramount importance and we are doing our best to preserve this value, this civilizational achievement also for future generations. And if we somehow understand that in the first wave of the epidemic the government is a little bit, I will say, ad hoc make decisions, because we simply did not know how this virus will behave and spread, but we would expect these measures to be taken systematically, transparently, thoughtfully, predictablely at the second stage. In contrast, they were received overnight, ad hoc, and even communicated through social networks in the late evening hours. Of course, all of this has brought a great deal of uncertainty, mistrust and confusion among people, which also shows that people do not actually trust the measures proposed and adopted by the Government. The consequences we have experienced in society are not small. The schooling of children, from kindergarten to primary school to college, has in fact limited or somehow distorted the right to education, knowledge, socialization and will have some serious consequences for them. Fewer than they are, it is likely that it is easier to make things more difficult, but nevertheless, distance learning, dealing with children with special needs at a distance is not the same as dealing with them in the way that this has been done in other neighbouring countries. All these measures taken by the Government have led many families into personal distress. Imagine a family with more children and had to provide more computers overnight so that the children could monitor the study. That is why we have proposed to the SAB party that the country provide children with palmers with access to the Internet, and this has not happened in a systematic way. The pressure of parents who are not learning has increased, the pressure of parents who have worked from home and at the same time had to provide for their children’s education has increased, and the pressure of parents who have taken a medical allowance for teaching their children has increased, thus being part of their income. So these are all such financial difficulties that also affect the social development of the child and society. They were also in distress because children could not buy winter clothes, such as shoes, jackets, socks, gloves, while the chosen ones could buy prestigious perfumes, proteins, even gold. They were also in distress because some, or many, have long - term obligations in the form of loans. All of this has had major consequences for society. Here's a graph. We have the longest closed schools in Europe, we have one of the worst epidemiological images, we have the largest number of deaths per million people in Europe, and not least, as a result of the inability to operate an economy, which has also been affected by the absence of adequate schooling, we have a record public debt. These are all things that future generations will pay for. These are all things that will affect the future of future generations, and also because of all these facts, I will support the interpolation against you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Monica Gregorčič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! All governments and all parliaments have found themselves on the ground in the last year to be quite identical – how, with the appropriate infrastructures of social solidarity, especially the public health system, quality, to manage the epidemic so that it does not pandemicly escape, how to try to control and not completely shut down the economy and, in particular, not to derail it in such a way as is too much in this society and country, to the detriment of employees who do not yet have a clear solution to the quarantine decisions, but now the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Defence are proposing some scenarios, such as that he is a superpidemiologist, then let alone, I don't know what, epidemiologists decide and choose what is best. We used to call this a crazy house. And of course, as a beautiful proverb says, stars and children are what's left of paradise, or as a real colleague of Anja from SDS, it's about children – taking care of the problem of education in epidemic and pandemic times. Most of you have probably forgotten that I wanted to talk to the Minister-designate about these matters for the time of the hearing, but then, even with the proper application of the Rules of Procedure, the President-in-Office is now absent, not only small in size, but small in political culture, mag. Branislav Rajić, this has been disabled. He then transferred from the Education Committee's chairmanship to the Committee on the Economy, because it has also proved to be a great deal, because when the contrary has imposed some of the Government's conclusions on Parliament, but this is another, third topic. Before I briefly do what I wanted to do to my own, even in the wider circle of housing colleagues with the FDV, I would like to start with a quote. When does a man quote? A person quotes when someone in a sentence or two or in a strip strip says more in a graph or two than you would in a few minutes. My quote is this, the address on Saturday evening's beloved officer, Mr. Horowitz, has made it very clear which ideology this government advocates, this minister advocates this coalition. And a year and a half of good Stalinism comes from SDS – we will somehow survive. Maribor also survived World War II, 29 bombings, but then for five years he gathered everything that had been destroyed. Children are responsible or is the government responsible? Personally, I think this government should fall because of the smurf affair. Fuckin' sun, I'm sorry, the most dangerous thing in Slovenia has been smurfs in the last year. Legs. As my colleague Reich has already said, you could go, you were picking makeup, perfumes, testers – still socks! Madam Minister, take my salary by the end of your term of office, do some research, and explain to me once why socks in Slovenia have been the most dangerous thing in the last year. I don't know. It still bothers me, and I'm a bit of a naturalist, part of an analytical sociologist, I don't get to the bottom of it. At the time, I wanted to tell you, of course, that we have to ask ourselves about information literacy, that many times it has proved that the problem of information literacy is also on the part of the students. Twelve-, thirteen-year-olds jacked up the Teams and shut down a companion during what you call distance education. The story of one Zoom one of my kids, by the way. Now it's not my friend's fault or my lady's – I'm a little old school, you know, I was born in school. Infrastructure, too. When I had a high school student on Zoom or on Teams, I had to take Zoom to Ljubljana for a lecture, and Duckie was the last one to cry. I'm sure 80 percent of citizens and citizens of Slovenia have much worse access to the Internet than I do on the outskirts of Maribor. And now you're here: oh, we were great! Long-distance education. I've been listening to you all day. I'm sorry, no one who's spoken so far has a lot of knowledge about distance education. Putting our child on one side, on the other side of the comrade; that the minister boasts that the first day she signed with Microsoft for Teams Licenses is not a distance education! The fact that a respected colleague is going literally to lie to Studio City, that we are leading the world in this regard, and after I ask the question to the government, they answer me that you know this based on Zoom's conversations with your colleagues from the Ministry. I mean, this is a mockery from Parliament and opinion in this country. Distance education, of course, also requires consideration and consideration of the curriculum. Distance education also requires different didactics, and we have some tradition of distance education in Slovenia, you know: a written Bible school. Maybe if someone on the right or somewhere else did. But between the first wave and the second wave, one would expect it to be done, and at that meeting, when you were bragging about how great it was, Igor J. Žagar warned you about it. And what did he get for the prize? Although all that must have been said to him by the Institute and on the professional side – not only is he probably one of the top rhetoricists in Slovenia, including a professor of rhetoric – for another term at the Pedagogical Institute, yes, you personally resented him, you had to do a little spying there. If I move on, the so-called model C - someone mentioned the builders here earlier. In the parallel street with mine in Maribor, or with ours, or mine and Kalohovo, there is Smetana Street where we have a Central Construction School and High School, on Cross Street there are classrooms for practical study, which have been alone for six months. And those classes don't have 40 future builders, tile builders, and such honorable professions as we really lack. Let me know, for God's sake, why these classes couldn't be divided into halves, into thirds, and this practical lesson is being taught. And also, you know, a family of 50 more admission places in medicine. And Shabedra and I were talking when I was chairman of the Health Committee. A serious medical study is already being conducted in our country, I can say, not as it should be, because unlike Austria, due to covida, other health care is not working in part or largely does not work. For a serious university medical study, you need a clinic. You need a lot of things for a serious study of sociology. And here you are, bragging about 50 places at the same time, where are you gonna put them? [[...]] 50 places of entry in medicine means maybe 40 or 50 doctors or doctors over — how many years? And someone else is giving birth in the middle of a specialty in a dozen years. And now we're getting high here, uh, great, you've got it all figured out. At the same time, people are freaking out about not getting a doctor on the phone in Maribor at the primary level. It's just an empty push. And then he says, "Dear colleague from NSI, yes, the Minister was connected and accessible, especially to the parents." I don't know, the last month, the month and a half, we were wondering where the minister was. Okay, so maybe my colleague Simona's burned out, it happens, and I'm in 2016 too, we're people. But after all, I already said at those first hearings in 2014 that it is the duty of anyone who realizes that he has stepped into too many shoes to give up. In this government, well, that lady for Slovenians around the world hasn't done anything stupid yet, and then she's kind of stopped. I'm sorry. And the esteemed colleague is a regular professor, a political scientist, a lecturer in various management styles, according to the CV. I don't know, Simona, is this the ideology advocated by this SMC, a hypothetical, supernatural client, a search for systemic solutions to the memory and beyond? We're here! And now there's some gleaning, and we gave a million for it in Arnes, and we bought some computers and some of that and some of that. In fact, I also have to criticize my opposition colleague. You can imagine now, we're all going down. Because of me, the government can now buy and credit us and every citizen gets no idea what, Mac Pro, that doesn't mean that we'll have a serious distance education right away. I've been asking all kinds of questions to the Ministry. Of course, there were very large differences in these performances. I'd even hope to make an thesis. Years ago there was some serious research on reading habits and functional literacy in Slovenia, which in fact showed that one variable, which explains almost everything, is the father's education. I would even hope to put here the thesis that the so-called success was now linked to the information and functional literacy of parents, including the property situation and, of course, whether parents had time for it or not. I can tell my own case, I hang here most of the time, listen to stupidity, my life-saving, our child is largely left to himself. I'm good morning. And I'm probably not the only one. Probably some right hand will shake right now, the Duck is a bad parent, and of course the minister will have to look at the cell phone and revve the release of the Cléta or Janša or – what is it already? – the secretary of national security, and Kangler may write that he will also beat the shit out of Duck. Here we are. There you are! It's you, it's a coalition you're defending, it's a coalition I'm not defending. I'm not defending her because my grandson's kids will have to pay that 60-year-old bond if he ever does. Are we going to pay her off with this nonsense? Good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word to prepare Miha Kordišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good evening, everyone! Especially to a minister whom I think is quite close to the thought: “What doesn’t kill you will fortify you.” This evening, today's entire day will certainly strengthen your conviction and give you the will to fight to respond to all the structures you've heard today that are coming to you, and I have no doubt that you are part of your task. In fact, after a fiasco with a constructive distrust, the opposition continues its political struggle today. This is today's first interpolation, followed by two more. Every minister from each coalition party has earned one. There's no choice. But the destruction of the government is continuing, and the pogrom you are experiencing is certainly not pleasant. However, you share it because you have crossed the rubicon under the SMC quota, you have allowed yourself to take or take up a responsible position in the Government, which is run by Prime Minister Janez Janša, which is why all of these words are so highly exposed today, that even fellow Members of Parliament do not choose words in the personal disqualifications of their fellow Members, and that is to say colleagues who are even academically educated. This is my personal disappointment today, as I heard from my predecessor. Colleagues from the opposition are competing, the proponents of this interpretation in who will count more of your sins, more or less bizarre mistakes, and prove that it is truly possible to make an affair out of every detail if you have some appropriate media support on your side. You have been given a truly large-scale, long-lasting media pogrom or a lynx with literally bizarre insights, for example, that schools have been closed in our country the longest of all in the European Union and even wider. I am pleased that you have sent us the material and also presented in your introductory explanation the information that I believe much more than some of the other colleagues of the opposition. In fact, your data shows that Slovenia is somewhere in the good middle of the countries where schools have been closed for the longest time. Longer than us, schools were closed in Ireland, Latvia, Romania, Italy, Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States and Brazil. So I would like today to stop manipulating and creating alternative facts, if that's what new can be called a lie. The fact is that the profession is a very popular word with opposition colleagues, but this is also the most misused word in politics. Why? I'm sure the teaching profession and you run this department, you must know this very well, you've also worked for as long as possible to open schools, to continue as normal a teaching process as possible. On the other hand, we have an epidemiological profession where experts, epidemiologists have stood for the opposite position, to close down as soon as possible, to stop public life, schools, the economy, all with a view to stifling the spread of the virus. But politics is one that weighs and ultimately takes decisions and bears all the burden of responsibility. When we're talking about a fairly successful fight against the first wave epidemic, I can only congratulate you. I remember that night when the ministerial team was confirmed, you went to the government in the evening, and from that point on, you've been creating opportunities for as much normal life as you can or to fight the epidemic. I can only congratulate you on the appropriate, really rapid response, for having quickly established all the information base, the system for continuing the education in the form of distance training. In the second wave — what went wrong? Of course, the opposition misused the second wave for political struggle. I really remember a very good action for a school without masks: why preventive measures, if it's not that bad at all? And then we all soon got caught up in the rise of infections, and somehow you had to bite your tongue, but it was too late for all of us, I'm sorry. This was followed by a second wave and another closing of schools. But in the opposition, of course, you continued the political struggle on the shoulders of all citizens, and you have only changed tactics and acknowledged to the Government that the individual authorities did not respond adequately and prepared for the second wave of the epidemic. The minister has made various mistakes, slips, such as dinner on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and you forget that there were then over 100 other participants, including the potential new political face, but I did not see him receiving such media pogroms as the minister. I just want to point out one more thing. Today you are also asking the Minister to step down on her own because you are aware of your insufficient political power that you do not have enough votes to say goodbye to this city today, and you are knocking on your conscience I don't know who, SMC. You're very fond of knocking on SMC's conscience, and today the proponent has also allowed himself to rediscover why we went to this government, to this coalition to solve some of our personal existential problems, I don't know what else, like you know why the SMC was created. I always respond to these findings because I really recommend that you deal with your client, you have enough problems in it. Again and again, as the whip of God strikes you with a new face and prevents you from winning the election, so you have a lot of problems of yours, but you prefer to deal with them, and SMC please leave them alone. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u175	Madam Members, I apologize for reaching out to you. Dear fellow Members, please respect the rules of procedure and do not disturb anyone when they speak. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will conclude with the thought: that, Minister, you have my full support, even from your own experience I know, you have been my superior for several years to work as professionally, ethically, properly. In this context, I also recognize the eligibility of your specific staff exchanges, which is your right and responsibility. I am pleased that you have already responded in your opening presentation with a calm conscience or explained a number of things, said what you have done despite the covidu or because of the covidu, and that in this way you have somehow set a very large mirror for some of your ministerial predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u177	Thank you very much. There's three of you. Who's got the procedure? Mr. German, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u178	Madam Vice President, I have one request to address to you. You're not the only one who's running this meeting, and you're trying to hold the vice president at the same level as the president, and that's understandable. It is also understandable that when Members of Parliament may be slightly left behind and maybe sometimes we are loud, I speak for everyone, and we are disturbing someone. But I'm asking you not to overdo it, because you're exaggerating. We're not even at Mass at school. If any of your colleagues exchange a silent opinion, please tolerate it. In fact, you are the only one who has some of these criteria raised to this extent, that you are in fact creating a feeling that we must be purely silent, just as it does not belong to this Parliament. So I'd ask you, yes, warn me, when it's necessary, but don't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your proposal. I'm the one who's in charge of the session, and if someone is in the middle of something for 10 minutes, I'll always warn them. Mrs. Udovč has a procedural procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must commend you for warning Members and professional colleagues as you have been leading the entire day. And if you had warned the SDS in the morning and the opposition MPs, it was right that you had now warned the MP, but they continued to talk. Nor did the expert co-worker and Member of Parliament notice that you asked for peace in the Chamber and that they should not interfere with the debate. Therefore, I ask that you continue to conduct the meetings as you have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The replica, Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. When drawing out some tables and data and comparisons, things need to be put in the context that Brazil and the United States had long closed schools — why? Because there are two more people out there, so I don't say what kind of politics, because I don't have immunity. That's basically the result of that. About the other clients. I don't even deal with Levica, let alone deal with SMC. But some of the parties that still exist, we have some problems between us, which we are solving democratically, and we will also be together in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. I need to respond to what my colleague Monica is always saying and confusing with some stories. Every now and then, he makes something up, but okay. Today, she said that the opposition had abused the second wave of political struggle. Good morning! What are we doing here? Where exactly are we? It's a legitimate asset to the opposition. I don't know, colleague Monica, do you imagine the opposition will applaud you at 4000 220 dead? One bus on the day of the dead, Mom, Grandma, Uncle, Sister? Are we going to give you, I don't know, applause at the longest closed schools in Europe? Are we going to applaud you for introducing a dictatorship into this country and for destroying independent media?Oh, my God! I really ask you to let go of this parallel world in which you live, and a little reality in this Slovenia to look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u185	Jura Ferjan has the word, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u186	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I would ask you to warn a fellow Member from the List of Marjan Šarc that, however, she should use these words a little more wisely. The Slovenian Democratic Party won the elections and formed a government and has far more members in the National Assembly. The former Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec, is from your party, which has had a significantly lower result in the last state-run elections, and we have not talked about dictatorship. Please stop that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. Let's be respectful. I know we've been here since 9:00, and we're all tired, but let's be so respectful to each other and listen to each other. Procedurally, Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u188	Thank you, Vice President. I ask you kindly to allow me, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, or to provide a replica of my colleague Lidija Dijak Mirnik, because some of the facts have been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u189	Unfortunately, I can't do that. The rules of procedure are clear. Applicant Marko Koprivc [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Well, stop it. Dr. Runczek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I would like you, President, to finally read the Rules of Procedure once again, allowing a replica into a replica. If you realize that your colleague Monica was not properly understood by her colleague Lydia, there is a chance that you can give her a replica of the replica. Just do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your instruction. Mag. Marko Koprivc, you have the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, Mr. Ferryan. Although I wanted to replicate Mrs Monica Gregorčič, in the meantime it has happened so much that additional untruths have taken place on a daily basis. First of all, Mr. Ferryan, about the SDS election victory. True, the SDS has won and won the election for quite some time, but it is a relative victory. However, the SDS did not reach an absolute majority. The parties you've managed to lure into this coalition have somehow made your power possible. But the problem is that at least two parties from coalition parties have made a very clear commitment to not join the coalition before the elections and after the elections. And what's more than an electoral fraud? Tell me. Is that legitimate? Desus then waved with Karl Erjavac with the red poster "Left Block for Left Ljubljana", which was established as an antipod to go to the Janša government. The SMC with Mir Cerar at the helm was set up as an alternative to Janez Janša's policy as an alternative to the worst possible. And even in the last elections, according to 2018, the SMC has clearly committed itself not to go into this coalition. She made a clear commitment. This is an absolute embezzlement of the electorate and therefore we are angry, in the opposition we are very angry at what you are allowing. Not only have you allowed this government, an illegal government, not just that – but this government is taking absolutely unacceptable measures. This government changes the Republic of Slovenia, grabs through all possible subsystems, abolishes media freedom, destroys public education, destroys NGOs. All that you've advocated, dear friends of the SMC, that you can't work, you're doing all that. And in the field of education. That's why we're mad at you, Minister Kustec, because you're watching all this. You either look quiet or you blink and you let it pass. That is why we say that the Republic of Slovenia does not have a Minister of Education, because the Ministry of Education is headed by the President of the Government. Yesterday or before yesterday, one of the right political commentators at one of the television events said: "Yes, you know, this is understandable. The President of the Government, however, wants to be effective in innovative and does not allow things to drift as slowly as is normal for systems within the Ministry and so on, within the Office." He kind of admitted that ministers don't need to be enough to be one minister, and that's him. That's really unacceptable, I'm sorry. Mrs Monika, let me focus on your debate earlier when you said you should listen to the profession, but the profession is more, one is school, teaching, the other is health, epidemiological and so on. With regard to the opening of schools, all the professions were united, from Dr. Fafangl, representing epidemiology, to Dr. Beovic, not to mention schoolwork. Everyone advocated the school opening as soon as possible. This information even came to the public by the end of November that even the government consultation group had proposed the opening of schools and the minister did not follow. I think the minister would have even done it because she predicted it, but then she got a befel from the top so that it couldn't be done, and because of this school they didn't open up. And that's why we're angry, and that's why we're worried. Yeah, once again, we're mad at you, at SMC and Desus, which is what's left of it, because I don't know what it's called. We are angry that you are maintaining this power and doing damage to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u193	Dear Mr Koprivc, please stick to the content of today's session. Here you go, Dr. Duck, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I'm not mad. You know why not? We have a government president who, when he wakes up, is angry halfway around the world when he takes Twitter into his hands and he's mad at the whole world. The Americans had some McDonald's eater, sorry, because I'm doing an ad that was mad at the whole world. Politics can't work with anger. Let's all get pissed off together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Did you raise your hand? [[Yeah.]] It's a replica. Mr. Ferryan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u196	Thank you very much. A replica of Koprivac's colleague. Now we've just seen how obviously in the SD party they work with friends, how they work with enemies, but we never want to see what we can see again. Not me because I'm too young, but a lot of people. As for the problem, today's interpretation of all this speculation, what we see in the past, we have seen now. The problem is you're no longer in power, and that hurts. Of course, with the exception of Dr. Duck, who made it clear today that he is not angry. So with the exception of him, there will be no need for an additional replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u197	Matthew the Widow has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to say something. The opposition was still small in the government for one year, and this opposition to the voters and voters certainly did not say that it would throw the rifle into the corn in a year's time and go to the elections. And here we are not to judge, my fellow Koprivec, we are not to judge and condemn. Please, we're connected and we know how to work together. That means we're doing good for Slovenia. And we'd be wondering if you're capable of that. But I'm not thinking about you personally, but like I said in the debate today, today is not the time for politics, today we need to get together here to fight the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u200	I don't know if it's without connection and a waste of words. But to cooperate. Yesterday, the president of the government wrote to the coalition parties and burned you down very clearly, so stop messing around, from now on, if you don't do what I want, we're going to the elections. And this was meant for that rest of the SMC, as Marko says, and Desus and SMC. This was a direct call by John Janša to two coalition partners to stop messing with him because of some of the events in the National Assembly, those of the Vesel about the Court of Auditors, and some of the amendments there in any of the laws and so on. Is this cooperation to calmly agree to this? This is also why we have this interpretation today, because the Minister is peacefully landing in the way Janez Janša works, which is absolutely authoritarian, who has no problem blocking an invitation to enroll who has no problem snorkeling halfway around the world, I don't know, world leaders, journalists, MEPs, I don't know who else, who doesn't have a problem coming to the National Assembly and offending everyone and so on. What kind of cooperation? Who?Oh, my God! I think they have a more rational man in Pyongyang than Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Let's move on. No offense. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to prepare Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u202	Thank you, Chairman. Are you sure I have the floor? That there's no procedural proposal, a replica, a cross replica, anything like that? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u203	Please, Mr. Kordish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u204	Okay, great, great, nice to meet you. So thank you for your word. I have structured my debate into three thematic blocks. The first deals with opening schools, the second deals with – this may be even more symbolic than anything else – re-analysing students because they went to the streets, and how Minister Kustec Lipicer responded to the situation, and the third questions about the latest developments in higher education, namely, the crushing of Janez Janša after higher education institutions, the toying with tender places and all attempts to privatise the higher education space and the redirecting of finance into private colleges around the ruling SDS party. But before I do that, let me respond to one of the claims, let me say the thesis with which it has been served in the last 30 minutes of the debate. In fact, it was obvious to Minister Kustec Lipicer that she was not wearing a mask at that meeting, and how she had experienced the defeat and how it was unjustifiable that there were 100 other people in there. That's probably what's holding it all together. It was probably true in that room at that meeting of 100 other people who were not wearing a mask, but there was only one in there who for not wearing masks of sage to people with 400 euros of punishment or for disregarding the actions of the government of Janez Janš with various positions and other sanctions. This is this difference, in hypocrisy and in political responsibility. This political responsibility is not fully understood by Minister Kustec Lipicer. Rather, he is aware of at least a limited extent, which is why he is practically hiding from the public because he cannot defend the indisputable. What is happening and what has happened to schools, especially in the second wave of the covida-19 epidemic, is absolutely undeniable. Today we listen to the coalition line, including the government line, how everything was basically okay with opening and closing schools, that the government did the best that could be done. But the best thing to do is that schools in this country have been closed for five months. Remember one Monday, some regular session a few months ago. Topic: Opening or closing schools. That Monday, the Twitter President of the Government of Janez Janša told one story about what will happen to schools, Twitter by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia communicated with the public a completely different story, whether schools will be open or closed, what will happen to them, then we had that Monday of the Prime Minister here also live with us in the Chamber and he spoke another third. And then the same meeting was attended by Minister Kustec Lipicer, who again gave the fourth version of the answers. All on the same Monday, colleagues and colleagues. Two hours before it was – I think at six p.m. – a public decision, a government institution, the President of the Government, Minister Kustec Lipicer could not tell the public whether schools would open or not to open, what parents expected, what teachers and teachers would expect, of course, students. After this fiasco, which has only increased further, today we have come to the interpretation of directly responsible, Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Mrs Simone Kustec Lipicer, and we hear that virtually nothing has happened, that we have the best government as far as we can, that we have the best minister and that both are practically immune to mistakes. Of course it doesn't. As soon as we look at research and comparisons with other countries, we see how much this is not true. Minister Kustec Lipicer gave no valid argument in her defence, she presented no basis on which the Government's conduct regarding the opening and closing of schools could weigh. Obviously, it was a totally similar situation, which did not even take into account the World Health Organization, even when research was published in Sweden, Germany, Japan on the impact of closing and opening schools, that was not something that the government of Janez Janša or Minister Kustec Lipicer would take seriously. All of these discussions basically report the same thing: opening, closing schools, involving students, staff and so on is a relatively small risk factor compared to the grief caused by the closure of schools in a stratified society. Children stayed home, some parents could take care of them, help them, and others could not. This is very related to how well these parents are paid in their job, whether they have a job, or whether day after day they kill themselves with the question of whether they will be able to pay the bills, or whether these bills will not be able to pay what kind of computer the children have, have it at all, information literacy and so on. The inequality has gradually crept into the Slovenian school vertical over the last 30 years and has also gradually begun to reflect on the student's learning success. Of course, I don't need to stress to you that children from socially disadvantaged families, from poor families, from working families, from farming families, are usually those who are having poor learning success, from bourgeois families, and, of course, rich families are doing better. With the closing down of schools, this inequality has hit the ground, but it's obviously not something that Minister Kustec Lipicer would consider. And if perhaps the questions of the research that I have cited are not sufficiently valid arguments, let me face just two actions of the Government, which were acceptable to Minister Kustec Lipicer. At the same time as the schools remained closed, shopping centres opened up. Please tell me, how is this rational at all?Oh, my God! Shopping centres, not the usual milk and bread trades, ladies and gentlemen, open up shopping centers where children and their families can go to school, are not allowed to go to school. Due to the consequences of the shopping frenzy at the end of December, which was encouraged and enabled by the Government, it was also possible that the opening of schools would then take place for a month, deep in January. Be on the government with Minister Simono Kustec on the forehead they don't know what they're doing, or cynically do something that they know is harmful. Second point. The protest and sanctioning of the students, to which Minister Kustec Lipicer responded, is basically about young adults whom she believes they understand and accept responsibility for their actions, and that this is the first step into the world of adulthood. Okay. To start with: does it seem normal for you to penalize, chase students, barely more underage people, because they go out on the street – watch out – but don't throw granite cubes and smash them, I don't know, on some crazy beer marches, but because they require schools to open? Because they want access to knowledge, the public school has obviously trained them well enough with tools to interpret the world, and they have adopted a moral compass that identifies and responds to social injustices — with action. The minister did not protect them from this terror of the government of Janez Janša. Moreover, she has enjoyed arrogant and cynical moralization and has very clearly adopted the ideology that has grown in Eastern Europe, the post-socialist bloc, and which Gaspár Miklós Tamás has chosen: “She has had to cover the repression, the principles are changed interests, the nations are tribes with flags and the republics are gangs with statutes.” This is somehow the position that Minister Simona Kustec Lipicer showed by offering students an additional blow instead of protection. While this final part, which was spoken by the philosopher Tamás, “and the republics are gangs with statutes”, we can ask questions in Slovenia slowly. The country still has its statutes, and the Republic has fewer statutes every day. In conclusion, third point, higher education. The government of Janez Janša has done nothing to improve and support the field of higher education. On the contrary, thousands and one way try to lower it, privatize it and channel resources for private colleges, regardless of whether these private colleges are completely in vain, if they do not bring absolutely nothing to higher education. What they're interested in is that they're in a circle of SDS. And this is about as far away as in the government of Janez Janša educational policy. Simona Kustec Lipicer will not say that she actively implements it, is actively carried out by Janez Janša, Simona Kustec Lipicer as minister standing somewhere in the corner and looking at the ground and therefore has to leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The replica, Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u206	We need to be precise. Students and students did not go to the streets, they went to Maribor to the Square of Freedom, where they were violated by the freedom of what Micah said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today a lot of words have been said, what we want to destroy and what we will destroy, but we will not destroy anything, but we will eliminate the anomalies that have been domesticated in recent years. Among other things, the fact that the entrance points were confirmed after the inertia and there was no need to look at what we needed, although at each meeting of the Health Committee we heard that we were under-medical. Let me remind you that in October 2019, Health Minister Aleš Šabeder had a meeting with the dean of both medical schools and talked about the need for 50 entry places more than now. I'm telling my colleague Vatovac, who says that these things need to be considered, not just introduced. So, October 2019, they started talking. “The number of cities awarded for general medicine has decreased in recent years. At the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana and Maribor, this year, in 2019, “64 study places are available for Slovenian citizens less than eight years ago, despite the fact that the number of teachers’ employees there remains the same.” The Ljubljana Medical Faculty had the largest entry in 2011, 2020, the number of admissions to 180, and the last five years only 150 more places per year. The University of Maribor also had the largest entries in 2011 - 96, while 86 seats were awarded for the second year. Last year, there were 163 more candidates in Ljubljana than there were cities, while there were 100 candidates left at the door in Maribor. As a result, the Ministry of Health has already proposed an increase in enrolment at the University of Ljubljana for 20 and in Maribor for 30 cities by the end of the summer. This is what Minister Šabeder discussed with both dean, Minister of Education Jernej Pical and Director of the Ljubljana and Maribor Clinical Centre. Everyone agreed to increase the number of admissions to both medical schools. In the next step, the dean will check what a possible increase would mean for the study and funding process. Then we read in Finance in a month: “State officials have been sleeping for years and medical schools are demanding more money for a possible increase in the number of students by 50, even though the Ljubljana spear in it and paying millions for the additions to their elite.” And then they write down how many supplements they got. Professors or other employees received high amounts mainly at the expense of the university’s market activity. So, we have time for market activities, but we don't have time or capacity for education and training for future doctors. Clearly, they were thinking, but actions were lacking. If Charc's government remained, we'd probably still be talking about it, and we'd be yelling that we didn't do anything on the staff, that there weren't enough doctors and nurses. This is what we heard in the fall — that the government slept over the summer and did not provide a new frame, but now that we want it, that is the problem. So this government works differently, is active and did not want to spend another year. It is only necessary to move and find solutions, and I am sure they will, because they are placed before the fact, but otherwise they would not have to. So it can't be that hard if it went away in 2011. In addition, the government will certainly provide money for investments and will be able to provide the necessary space very quickly. So much so that we didn't talk about it, and it's something new and stopped the call and the whole drama. Finally something moved, but before that, we just talked about it. The students were not punished because they wanted to go to school or because they were students, but because they violated the prohibition of association, the prohibition of association under the Law on Infectious Diseases. They were punished for it, and if I had done it, I would have been punished, and if I had made one of you. That's right, the rules are to stick with them. In the situation we were in in the year beyond which we do not remember, we needed to organize ourselves very quickly and find solutions. Schooling at home may not have turned out as much as you would like, but it was a bit of a problem, but all the actors worked hard and put their efforts and knowledge into the quickest possible solution. But this was a challenge for everyone, for schoolchildren, for teachers, and for parents who had to work more actively than before. Finally, this is not bad, because now they have seen what their children are learning, and we have a whole bunch of comments on learning materials, teachers have found which substance and data are crucial – because hand to heart, curriculum is urgently needed, because there is a lot of content that students are burdened with and are not designed to develop their abilities. So now is the perfect time to do something about it, but finally they have learned a lot, a computer not only for games and for fun, but also for learning. It also turned out that we had teachers who had a heart to deal with things and adapted to new situations, introduced new ways, helped each other, shared knowledge, their ingenuity came to light, ideas that often do not find a place in a system where everything is set and we have been taking autonomy from teachers for years. Information equipment was provided, including children who did not have computers. So, we promised the tables already in the 2014 programme, 2018 again, and if we were to lead the government, we would have this today and it would be much easier to educate remotely. But I wonder what Minister Pikalo did at that time to make sure that all the children had computers. There's no plan, there's no recipe, there's no protocol, there's no protocol. After 100 years, we are in such an epidemic for the first time, and now we expect that everything will run perfectly, that we have the answers to all the questions – unfortunately there is not. If we just look at what was going on. We opened the school in September. Then we have action SD, "in a school without masks". My colleague Koprivc somehow excused that they followed only the directors and the union, but on your poster you wrote an invitation to the Government for living conditions in schools and kindergartens, so if children have masks, these are not suitable living conditions. Don't say you didn't do anything. And then it happens to us like this. [[shows the margin]] , growing up, and what should the government do other than shut down schools? And she locked them up. Koprivc then says: “It has been proved that children do not spread disease.” Of course not, because they were at home, look, here [[shows the margin]] They were at home, and they really didn't spread diseases here. Then we release them again, we open schools, the kids are in schools, and today we have 23% among the infected are schoolchildren, in Ljubljana closed classes, quarantined because they took vacations in Africa and so on. And just to conclude, from Twitter: “Our student was in school after opening for exactly one week. Since they found out about the infection in the class on Friday, it is now quarantined and we are in uncertainty, which is much more stress than distance learning.« Of course I won't support interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u209	Thank you very much. First the replica, Natasha Sukić, then Mr. Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u210	Dear colleague, you said the rules were to stick to them, but the students were punished for not following the rules. Really? Was Minister Restoration punished? Was Minister Hoys punished? Was Croc punished? Was Mr. Kacin punished? Were our Presidents Pahor and Tonin, when they were walking without masks, punished? Was the minister being punished for that dinner there or that reception? Obviously, only those who speak are punished in any way that criticizes the government. The students only asked for education. They showed that maturity, Minister. They've shown maturity that you obviously can't overcome. They want knowledge and school, and they're being punished for demanding school with banners. The student who spoke for everyone is being punished. All these gentlemen I told you about weren't being punished, but they were in violation of the rules you were talking about. Explain this paradox to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u211	Mr. Miha Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u212	The rules are that we stick to them unless, at least, we are under the rule of John Janša, unless we are first class. Let us look at the most obvious list: Hojs, Rest, Kustec, Tonin, Krk. Only a few names that were not fined lightly for disregarding often irrational, pointless and contradictory government measures that were not here due to the covida-19 epidemic, many of them were not, but to protect the government of Janez Janša, while it was impacting the country. Otherwise, I don't even know exactly who I'm replicating. Is there a lot of talk about the university about Alenka Jeraj with secondary education, or is it about Kopriva, who, on Twitter, is playing with calves? I haven't figured it out yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u213	Mr. Kordish, you're using the rules of procedure. Please, let's be correct. Joseph Horvath has a word to prepare only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u214	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear fellow applicants, distinguished Minister Prof. Dr. Simona Kustec, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, colleagues and colleagues – we are political passengers, we are political competitors, and we should never be enemies. Never. There should never be any hatred between us. This is a place where we bang in a democratic way different ideas and sometimes actually fall into too much mud water. The plasma of interpellations in Novi Slovenije did not surprise us, as this plaza of the KUL Group announced at the moment when they found that Karl Erjavec would burn in the vote on non-trust. Why is Mrs Simona Kustec a minister today? Because she was invited to perform an extremely challenging mission to the Minister because someone must carry out this mission in the country. It can't be performed by those who escaped the epidemic. Yeah, history repeats itself. I know a few people and a few groups who also fled from another enemy in 1991. Interpellation is indeed a political, constitutionally defined mechanism of parliamentary control over the functioning of the Government or of an individual minister or minister. It is precisely because the mechanism is laid down by the Constitution that it would be necessary for the interpretation to be written on the basis of the proven Minister's violation of the law or other acts committed by the Minister and the Minister not worth writing. In particular, in each interpretation, the proposers should state the actual infringements of the Minister or the Minister. While we are already in the school area, we are probably at least one point united – that we did not have and do not have a textbook on how to deal with the virus, the new coronary virus, SARS-COV-2 or the covida-19 epidemic. We didn't have this textbook and we don't have it. Today, you are a global science, medical science is not united, and it cannot predict how this virus behaves. Can anyone tell us how the third wave is going to take place? Can anyone predict that we will then take action? Quiet. We did not even have a national plan as it should have been, as the previous government had pointed out. This government has now updated this state plan, which is being raised when the epidemic is declared. Colleagues and colleagues, with all three interpolations that have been put in, come before my eyes, and without offense, the parable of the Tower of Babel. I'm trying to hear from the left, "We're wearing masks." I try to hear from the left: “Let’s keep the distance.” And I am trying to hear from the left: “Let us respect the measures proposed by the section to limit infections.” The fact is, in the last year, the government and the coalition invested almost 80% of their time and energy in fighting the covida-19 epidemic and in helping the economy and people. We are not ideal – we have also made a slip, we can also apologize – and some results are, let's be objective. GDP did not fall as much as we planned, unemployment is lower than we planned, we know the ratings of international agencies. You're reading the country's debt. Of course, how can we fund all this aid to the economy? Because if the economy goes down, we all go down. And how can we fund all help to the vulnerable or the most vulnerable? Then tell that top employee in Goričko to shut down the company. Tell me. And that you care a little about those 150 people and about that many families. Tell me. The most radical left part of the political spectrum today – of course at the symbolic level that no one will hold my tongue – at the symbolic level represents a rerun of March IDs over the minister of Prof. Dr. Simono Kustec. March 15th is today. On March 15, 44, before we count, Gaius Julius Caesar was to be on his way to the Senate for the last time. When today the minister listens to the brutal attacks of former coalition partners, she certainly has an association with Caesar's last famous words: “Et here, Brute?” “Et here, Brute?” Well, there's the mecca. The applicants say that the government did the wrong thing because the number of admissions to medical schools increased by 50, 40 in Ljubljana, 10 in Maribor. It's a mistake because there's no room. The logic of the applicants is, therefore, that colleges register as many cities as are available. It's a destructive logic. Since I was talking about the constitutional category and because I was talking about the fact that there should be advocates of the truth here, I am going to the first point of what they are reading, on the first reading of the motioners to the Minister: “Instructive, inefficient, inconsistent and harmful policies in the field of education and education during the covida-19 epidemic, which caused the longest closure of schools and kindergartens in Europe.” You can no longer correct this poisoning with this misinformation because it was caught in Slovenian society. Collegiate Iva Dimic, President of the School Committee, commissioned a study entitled Training at the time of COVID-19 in our extremely good, excellent research and documentation sector. We haven't had any closed schools in a while. Besides, what does closed school mean? Does that mean there was no teaching? And we're all so digital and we swear on digital! We are about at the level of Bulgaria, Greece and worse than we are, if you like, Italy, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Romania. Numbers don't lie, colleagues and colleagues. If you don't like these numbers, replicate the research sector. And keep going. The minister has excellent support in the government. Some of you wanted to prove to the public that it was irrelevant. Very important. Very important, it has strong political support in the government. If you don't have it, you're on fire. She's got it. Let's see again the numbers, the budget for this year. 16% more and 315 million more money for this year than was realized 2019. That's about as much for 2022. Practically over 2 billion 250 million. Is that what the minister gets without political support in the government? Well, her predecessor certainly didn't have it, but he was handsome because he thanked Nova Slovenija for requesting an emergency meeting of the Education Committee, where we presented an extremely large, 10 years-long problem of not investing in kindergarten and primary school infrastructure. With our conclusions we were driven, but our amendment was then adopted to the budget, thanks, I think for 5 million. Not enough. The former government has been deaf to what demographic indicators have pointed out and show – that by 2023 we will have 14 000 251 more children in primary schools, each calculating how many departments and so on, and that infrastructure needs to be provided. Just the ones you swore the most and swore an oath to state schools, that's what you said, no, but we don't give the money. Wait, how's it going together? This minister provided an additional €43 million for the period 2021-2024, a good 13 for co-financing of kindergartens and a poor 28 for co-financing of primary schools. And I could count it. And maybe it's still a popular theme, cohesion funds. Let's just look at some data on the means of European cohesion policy. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, they have a good EUR 606 million right to spend European cohesion policy funds for the period 2014-2020. By the end of 2020, 126 direct validations of operations and calls for co-financing were carried out. They co-financed – the Ministry – a thousand 582 operations from various substantive areas totalling EUR 525 million. The numbers don't lie. The fact is that the left opposition with relatively barren arguments comes over the Minister of Education, while, interestingly, one of the important reasons does not mention. Now I'm here to help the proponents. Among the 20 not-so-justifiable eyewitnesses of the opposition, there is virtually no one who could possibly make Minister Simona Kustec deserve interpretation — a constitutional decision. It's not real yet, it's not fixed yet, but it will, because that's what we agreed on. It is clear, therefore, that the applicants approve of discrimination against children in private primary schools with a public programme. A well-known high school teacher asks himself today when he listens to us or listens to you, quote: “And what does one learn in the first half hour of interpretation? To ask the Minister to resign several times and thus to admit that the interpretation is a farce and that he does not have a vote to withdraw the opposition.” The opposition, of course, has every right to invest in interpellations, but it does not seem to be able to handle this instrument very well. The Minister has, for the time being, with her calm response, suppressed every attempt to put the debater at the level of the profession at the level of mutual political accounting. In this case, the minister of their game is not going. Of course, the epidemic is not the fault of the ministry, for the whole of Europe is facing this problem. That's what kids know. I hope adults do. For the final judgment on all decisions, however, it would be advisable to wait at least a little longer. I hope it's not too long. The dismissal of the Minister is, however, more serious than the display of its political power or, rather, the powerlessness. However, today's debate will once again be over in the conviction of the already convinced. In doing so, the opposition has no doubt on its side the opinion of those who are fed up with protective measures. But building your career on angry voters can quickly return to it as a boomerang. Colleagues and colleagues, it's time for a failed mistrust and it's time for unsuccessful interpretations. It is also a time when the incapacitated are incapable of incapacitated. And it's time to support Professor Simoni Kustec. Now's the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word has only Bevk, prepare Blaž Pavlin. Colleague Natasha Sukich, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u216	Dear colleague, now you're talking about some opposition games. You let me know what the game of opposition is if you ask the Minister specific questions and you don't get the answer. How did she deceive the public? For one week she had a professional opinion on the table that she should open schools for children with special needs and did not do so. And she lied about not having a green light. And now you're going to be saying that these are opposition games, these interpretations? They're not opposition games, they're games the minister doesn't even answer. You say how dignified she is sitting here today — she is not answering any questions she should answer. This is a replica to you when you make such claims in the opposition, a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u217	Colleague Bitch, that's not a replica. The word has only Bevk, prepare Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! First of all, I would say that it seems to me that 16 hours of debate in one day about one subject is definitely too much. This goes far beyond the ability of a reasonable debate for a normal worker. Let's just leave this, this may be a topic for a change to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now for the interpolation. At its 53rd regular meeting on 28 January this year, the Government, in which Prof. Simona Kustec also participates and votes, did not confirm the decision to agree on the content of the invitation to enroll in the postgraduate and single master's degree programmes in the study year 2021/2022. The Government's agreement is a condition for the publication of the invitation to tender and higher education institutions, as is established and customary practice, intended to publish this invitation on 1 February. Even more bizarre to me is the fact that the document itself has harmonised the very school ministry and it was therefore expected that the government's consent would be merely a naked formality. With this willful move, the government was seriously threatened with enrolment in colleges in the coming academic year. At the same time, it is a further worrying fact that Prime Minister Janez Janša said that education should be adapted to the needs of the labour market, which reminds me of the times when the President walked along Avno's paths. The government and the ministry, which are unable to clearly determine whether schools will be open next week, have indicated that education needs to be adapted to the needs of the labour market in the next decade. Instead of the autonomy of the university and the freedom of research and expression, the current government imposes a productive ideology where it is obviously acceptable for the President of the Government to personally decide what is productive and what is not, what is added value and what is not. The Minister of Government clearly supports and requires higher education to serve the needs of the labour market, i.e. capital, and absolutely nothing else. The autonomy of the university means the opposite — that someone has all the freedom and right to judge political decisions and that he is not punished and persecuted. Education is aimed at human progress and satisfying social needs. The university must have the autonomy to decide its own priorities and the freedom to judge policy moves without the latter being avenged. It is therefore a clear violation of the autonomy of the university and freedom of education. The question therefore arises whether Professor Simon Kustec's Minister again helped private higher education institutions, as she did in addressing the PKP6, when she allowed private educational institutions close to the Prime Minister of the Government to retain accreditation, despite failing to meet the legal conditions. In this case, too, it is the destabilisation of public higher education and science and the transfer of budgetary money to selected private social colleges. Of course, I will vote for the Minister to lose the position of school minister in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is Blaž Pavlin, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u220	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and others present! At the beginning of last year, we started to monitor the covida-19 epidemic remotely as we monitored the situation in China. It all seemed like an event from a science fiction film. When we began to face a deadly virus in and around us, we all expected the epidemic to end soon. In autumn, the Coronavirus epidemic was resilient, and a new hope in the fight against the virus gave rise to the discovery of various vaccines. The management of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in addition to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at this time of the epidemic is one of the most responsible and demanding ministries. In the introduction, let me say that schools in Slovenia were not closed. Both in the spring and in the fall and in the winter, teaching took place in a slightly different way. There was a need to limit contacts, and schools were a place where, due to many contacts, there was a lot of potential for infection with the Coronavirus, as many people met them in one way or another. It is true that children, or younger ones, will get over this virus without any serious symptoms or problems, but they can be carriers of the virus and can infect the elderly for whom the virus can be fatal. In the bad two weeks, long - distance education was established in spring, and it worked well. The main purpose of distance education is to keep the student in contact with the education and content within the student, as well as to maintain the level of knowledge achieved in the student population. Many thanks go to all teachers, psychologists, educators, and principals for being involved with parents and students. After the holidays, the school was initially held in classrooms, but since the health situation began to deteriorate during the period from October to December, many of the school’s countries again closed down and moved to distance learning. In February, 22 February, more precisely, I was surprised by the contribution on TV Slovenia to return to Berlin for the first three classes of primary school. During that period, if I am not mistaken, in most Slovenia the first triad was in school for some time. Until then, I was sure that we had distance education only in Slovenia, but after media reporting it was the same in Germany. In doing so, let me point out that Germany had a significantly better epidemiological picture when schools were closed than when they were opened. No one claims that distance education can replace education in school, but this mode of education dictated health conditions in Slovenia. Regarding the opening of schools in Posavje and South-Eastern Slovenia, which have been in the worst region for a long time and have started attending schools at the latest. At present, the epidemiological situation is best in relation to regions in other parts of Slovenia. Whether it's connected or not, I don't know, and it's hard to judge. One of the candidates said today that we could selectively open and close schools locally. When education in these regions, due to the deterioration of the situation, went further, some regions protested against these measures. Vaccination and mass testing at the end of last year and in January improved the epidemiological picture in Slovenia and at that time was the period during which schools could be opened. The number of infections has decreased, and the number of hospitalised persons has also decreased, which was also one of the conditions of former Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to loosen these measures. Children are very adaptable, never having difficulty wearing masks or following prescribed measures if they had a good example of their parents and teachers. The various faithless Tomazzi among the unionists certainly did not benefit from this and were a poor example. Children quickly got used to working from home, but of course they missed their schoolmates and friends. However, I believe that today, with modern technology, this can be compensated to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! Now I'm going to talk about the secretary without her presence. That's not right, in fact, because talking about someone who's not present seems almost like a sinister act, so I don't even know how to start, and I'd like the Minister here to be present. But at least I hope he's got a TV on where he's sitting or he's listening to the radio. Some reasons why every Minister of the Slovenian Government, when he comes here under the question of interpretation, should have a voted interpretation, any minister. The moment since the current bad Slovenian government, the consequences of the actions which we as a nation as a nation, as a society for decades, deserve positive interpretation, that is to say, with the blessing of this Parliament, was when the Government in some way took the responsibility of the minister responsible for the epidemic, namely the Minister of Health, and began to decide on behalf of the Ministry of Health. Since then, for all the wrong, all the harmful decisions have been brought to justice by every minister and every minister of this government, including the present one, who is not present here. The fact that we are extremely unsuccessful in controlling the covida-19 epidemic can probably only be hidden by someone who is ideologically blinded. We are unsuccessful, the number of deaths is completely unnecessary, such as, and the crisis in the country is absolutely unnecessary. What are the reasons is clear at this point, but it is also the minister's fault, which is currently a percentage. The first reason is quite simple. Epidemiologists know the most about the epidemic. Epidemiologist's not an infectologist. The epidemiologist is not an advocate. Epidemiologist's not a pediatrician. Epidemiologist's not a machine engineer. And the epidemiologist is not a microbiologist. Epidemiology is best known by epidemiologists. I have said the following several times in this National Assembly, but I must repeat it because it feels that there is a simple misunderstanding on the part of the rulings. If a person suffers from an eye disease, he probably does not want to be treated by a dermatologist, even though Nobel is the rewarder. If surgery is necessary in the heart, it is likely that a person does not want a neurosurgeon, even though he is internationally recognized. And when it comes to an infectious disease in an individual, it will never occur to anyone that this individual will be treated by an epidemiologist. When it comes to epidemiology, the Slovenian government, which is bad, the burden of responsibility and decision, is passed on to all profiles, only to epidemiologists, and it is accepted by the government as a whole. At this point, we have a slightly changed group that leads to advise professionally in the fight against the epidemic. I respect individuals and individuals who are members, but once again the group is not led by an expert or expert, who is essentially a life mission — an epidemiologist or an epidemiologist. They don't even have most of them. We have already proposed several times to the Slovenian government – why do I stress this, have we proposed to the Slovenian government? Because it's always obvious that we're not cooperating. We can't do anything else than make suggestions. We don't make decisions. We're not the model. It must be those who make decisions. We have also proposed the principles of the work of the section, and nothing is taken into account. Nothing is taken into account. The current absent Minister is also responsible. This is why it is necessary to vote against this Minister. It's the other way around. I have already mentioned that if measures are to work in this country, the largest, double, triple, hundred-fold model must be those that accept restrictions. It's wrong to expect workers to be role models in factories. It's wrong to expect maximum school attendance. The biggest example must be those who accept restrictions, and these are ministers and ministers, and if you want, secretaries and secretaries. I appeal to you, of course, Mr Secretary of State, because you are the only one currently present from the political summit of the Slovenian Government here [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Two more, I'm sorry. So you're sitting in the back and you're totally invisible with this mask. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's someone else out there. You don't have to hide from the opposition, we don't want to hurt you, we're just advising you. There's another mistake. The first mistake is not to consider the profession, because, once again, a pediatrician is not an epidemic expert, a urologist is not an epidemic expert, not to mention defenders. Then the second mistake is a pattern. I'm not going to talk about individual cases because they're evil, but the case of someone who's violating a bad example and making decisions is a million times worse than the case of someone who doesn't make decisions. Imagine people watching. If someone who takes a decision in the Government who votes does not hold to it, how can one think that it is a serious action if the one who takes it does not take it in practice? But the third is, of course, a threat. I don't know, I've said this in this House a million times, and I probably have to say it two million times before the lady retires – look at Mrs Merklov's performances. Look at the humility of someone who is a leader and not a politician. Look at humility when speaking in Parliament, see humility when talking to the opposition as well, and above all humility when talking to citizens and citizens. Now compare with our government and you'll find out why things don't work out. And now the threats. I don't know what's so wrong that you don't know what happened in Maribor in the market for freedom. They were children who asked for something that was most normal — to come to school. Those who say today that education through digital networks is successful, you have no idea. Socialisation through digital networks is not really possible. Socialisation through digital networks is not a true socialisation. Read the literature, see, I read it myself. That's the biggest mistake. And if you believe that learning through digital tools is comparable to learning “live” means that we really live in a parallel world. And children ask — this is not a political action, this is a child’s request — let us go back to school. The punishments are not given to the highest representatives of the Slovenian state who make decisions and violate them, as the sentence of the poor person who is croissant on some of the steps, get on to the children who ask to return to school. Have you ever heard the expression political terror? Once again, the children asked to go to school, for them it was not a political act, it was only a request. The moment you decided to punish them, it all became a political act, but not theirs, your political act. At a time like this, being quiet is the wrong thing to do. At a time like this, it's not understanding children and smooching them, yes, you've got what you deserve, a sign of immatureness. And that's the minister who should be present, and she's gone, she's done it. Believe me, in most mature democracies, it would be a turning point for a minister or minister to leave at the moment. Let's move on. I was shocked when I also tried to demonstrate by the Members' initiatives that we have a special category of children in this country, these are children with special needs. Children with special needs are exactly what the name says. They're not zoom children, they're not digital children, they're children with special needs. Throughout the course, with all the advice and with all the wisdom of the competent Ministry, children must be resolved by the Constitutional Court at the end. That the matter was even worse, the competent minister said, “Yes, that’s what I expected.” Listen, we have an executive branch of power that's bound to act in accordance with the law, and that's not enough, it has to love children, it has to understand them. Finally he said, "Well, constitutional court, that you have made your decision." Minister, I missed you. It's like I'm talking to myself. The Constitutional Court saves children, and you, Madam Minister, say because I expected. Yeah, and if you were expecting, why didn't you do it a week, two, three, four, five, six before?Oh, my God! What is the Constitutional Court there to tell you what children need to do?Oh, my God! If I move on. We all agree that because of the smallness of Slovenia, science, scientific research, innovation is even more necessary. With all the debt you've made, more is needed. Anyway, what you're doing now, our president, Mrs Tanja Fajon, has said well, not just share candy, share candy. At the expense of our grandchildren, and if you calculate what 60 years means, you find that on the account of your grandchildren as well. If we want to return all of this in such a way that it does not affect people's rights, public education, public health and so on, we can only do so with a rapid rise in added value, there is no other option. When you took over the Ministry, you received in hand a coordinated proposal with stakeholders concerning the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation. Not only was it harmonised, but this law also had the consent of the current structure of the Ministry of Finance, which is almost the same or more important. I know you can say that the little thing wasn't coordinated, but it was consistent. And I understand that there is a new power, a new look, a new question, and that is why I have started to do something that the opposition Member has to do. It's not a matter of shame. The task of the opposition Members is to control and control. We don't have the power to make decisions. If we had these powers, we wouldn't be opposition Members. I have this habit myself, and many wonder that, like some say, an apple a day, I say the question of a letter a day. And I have to say - this time I will say something positive about the Slovenian Government - that I generally get quality answers. I don't agree with everyone, but I see the effort. I see a different view than mine, but I get relatively good answers. Then I decided to go a little bit to rank what kind of answers came from individual ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ever go to the section "Dejan Židan", you will see, everyone gives one question and then the answers of the ministries. If you ever have this option, give a look at the quality of the responses of individual ministries. Take a look at where the ministry, which according to some logic should have the best answers and the most substantive ones, compare these answers, say, with the Ministry of Health, with the Ministry of Environment, Infrastructure and everyone else. You'll experience, like me, like I do every time I get an answer, some kind of little shock. That already tells us how serious this particular ministry is. Once again, it is necessary for the Minister to tell her loud and clear today that it is time for her to leave. Firstly, because you are part of a government that is harmful, and any vote on a minister or minister is also a vote on a specific government. Second, the attitude towards scientific research, innovation and, last but not least, students, children with special needs is more than sufficient reason that if we vote today on the basis of arguments and not the power of the coalition – the opposition, the current government will have to seek a new minister tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u224	Thank you and good evening, everyone! We are slowly approaching today’s epilogue, for which, of course, all those who are not naive, we anticipate how it will end. In fact, as never before, I am sadder to learn that the composition of the Parliament's market is very multifunctional and we are dealing with everything, just what we should be dealing with, not. Minister, is that what you need today? Is that price worth it? Do you think that this crowd of people who are so cordially and argumentatively defending you today, of course, through the lines, to their leader, will do so tomorrow when the story is concluded? I'm sure once this love is over, these stories will forget you overnight. That'll make it easier for you today, after the interpretation that you'll most likely survive? I don't think you'll be able to sleep peacefully after you've potentially survived the interpolation today, too, because you know who's defending you in this process. Your former political opponents, who have not long since mutilated you, stumbled you and sought out every possible mistake, and today they are defending you. This reading has its price and you are paying this price today. You know what's the hardest thing for me today? When I look at you in this year, in front of our eyes, you actually dry up, you become the pale shadow of a woman as you were a year ago. But the other thing is the argument that we're listening to mainly from this side. [[shows with gesture]] . The same stories are repeated over and over again, not even the harder, but the hypotheses. But if you repeat it enough, it becomes the truth. You, every minute when you're silent, these hypotheses, which you wouldn't have rejected lightly so long ago, today you're just quietly sneezing every minute of silence. We've heard that the opposition is doing everything to overthrow the government. Run, come on. And you're passing all the intervention legislation on your own, without us. Not to mention the government's actions. However, the Government is working alone when we are talking about a collective body, but all those who know what this is all about know who is making decisions in this government. These measures by the Government are actually a unique one across Europe – I will return to this later – and proven contrary to the opinion of the profession. As colleagues of the Jewish community pointed out, epidemiologists should deal with the epidemic. With your help and with the help of the coalition, the government turned this story upside down with an excuse, a very cheap excuse that the crisis management plan from 2016 was too weak, and with the first few intervention laws. But you also took full responsibility when you withdrew your profession. And that Parliament should deal with the epidemic — what kind of epidemic? Government, coalition? If you reject all the suggestions, then you will also accept responsibility. You know that true leaders of mistakes admit, learn from them, and others who are not real leaders always blame others for their mistakes, just like you do today, Minister. I've been listening to you all day, it's the media, it's the politics, it's the people, it's everybody's fault, it's just you. It's our fault. Probably because we've been testing you for 15 hours now. As early as December, the president of your party on television publicly admitted that as a government, you had entered a dead end. Now I don't know if this was one moment of weakness, of inattention, but at that moment, Zdravko Restoršek admitted that you were making mistakes. And then today I'm listening again to how you did everything flawlessly, everything counts, everything works, no mistakes, no blemishes. You can live in such a utopia, and unfortunately, real life is completely different. When you accepted the offer to become a minister, you were probably tempted to cut ribbons, phototerms with successful athletes, gala events and so on. Sadly, the truth was once again completely different. Don't get me wrong, nobody's saying it was easy for you. But you, personally and collectively as a member of the government, have completely failed to cope with the epidemic and the consequences. Since management of the epidemic is not a cure for the disease, management of the epidemic is a treatment of society, but you cannot recognize it and you prefer to let some crisis management take place. At the top of the debate today, the Member spoke about values and freedom. What kind of freedom? Are we living in a free country today? People can't go out after 21 hours, and they can't give their opinion if it costs at least €400. Is that freedom of your own accord? Are those values? No, that's the value. And if we're talking about students from Maribor, they got a full-year sentence, and they had to go to court, but I don't know if you know that they had to go to the social work center with their parents to defend themselves. Where did we bring the parents and children because of your silence, Minister? That's the value, that's the price we pay for your cinnamon. This just means agreeing and becoming the same. You can put on different stickers as you are the central government – I also heard that today, I mean, some things are really funny. You're the central government, and you're the liberal controller? No, my dears, for the coin's crumb, if we look at our country's entire budget, you sell every day not only citizens and citizens, but also the future. It's for a little bit of change. I listened very carefully to you today, Minister. You, the coalition, the proponents, and I have really imagined where we came from, that you agree with this, once again, that you and your work are being defended by the biggest on-call nebulotics who argue – I don't know where they're coming from. And then they have so much courage to say that this is the best middle government that this country has ever seen. Yes, and then you took over this vocabulary yourself, even in the opening address. [[…]] You said, I quote: “The facts of cod achievements are that the past has been successfully completed, a new school year has been started, a graduate year has been completed, enrolments in primary, secondary and higher education programmes are already being prepared for this year’s graduation.” Yeah, well, if we did, we wouldn't even have a source! That was the basis. But the credits for this happening, they don't go to you, they go to the system, they go to the school's sacrifices, the parents and especially the children who did it, at least those who could do it because it wasn't easy. But again, the question is, at what price and how long will the children and all those involved in this story pay that price? Furthermore, you have said what in fact points not only to your understanding of the dimension and content of the core, but also to the whole country from the debates of Members. I quote: "In the framework of eight packages of so-called anti-Korona legislation, we have been supported by good 76 million measures to support the implementation of the educational process, including the purchase of ICT equipment, uninterrupted work protections, salary compensations, income losses, the release of payment for kindergartens and so on." According to you, all these problems can be solved with money, everything can be bought – this indicates the dimension of your thinking. And if we neglect to evaluate your success with millions of euros that would be the way out of the future, and if you are already bragging about them, at least let us say that as indebted as today Slovenia has never been. If the previous government had the chance to make so much money, it wouldn't. But you did, so you could strengthen the resources where we were weak. There are no limits to you, not to morals or ethics, not to financial matters at all. This money that you so generously invested in purchasing computers for children — and why did all these humanitarian societies collect old computers and share them with their children?Oh, my God! And they're too few. They're still doing it. Well, it's kindergarten. I don't know, I'm watching right now, people are sending me bills that they got for kids who weren't in kindergarten! Let's at least be consistent. Or protective equipment! Yeah, let's brag about a million euros worth of toilet masks with the rubbers you sent to the schools. Out of revenue. Of course, you must pay for it if you have banned activities and imposed the payment of kindergartens on the congregations. One with the other. That's not working. But now, Minister, you are backing another very dangerous issue — that private kindergartens will be more easily opened. This is how you take care of your department of the public preschool system and education. You'll allow it, and you'll be quiet again. Active, passive, or just because you can be quiet. Then you said that educational institutions received over 110 circulars, guidance and recommendations for implementation. Two would be enough because with everything you've sent, all you've done is create confusion all the time. The first would be: close everything. And the other would be: open it again. How? You'll find your own way. Because that's how it worked on the outside. And when you listen to the principals, that's actually what happened. What was the utility of your manual with possible learning models during the coronation period? Only today, we have heard, only today are the last students going to the classrooms. Yeah, great models, if you've written them anyway just because you can show today: "We have a nice book." And only in these days can some students go to practice. And I'll tell you something else. Some of these students require FFP2 masks. Did the Ministry provide them? No, you put it back on the students' shoulders again. Although, you could help with the masks here if you've already held the stand for your party president when it was vehemently procured for no price, especially for the profits of others. That's the saddest thing you've ever had, but the others had some of it, and you're going to pay the political price. Let's just leave it. These stories will be discussed for a long time, but I hope that we will get to the epilogue once again. Another thing was very interesting. In your introductory reply, you said that you had already prepared in December to open schools for children with special needs, which you thought would be again in early January. Then, again, your words, there was a “interesting story”. I went to see a magnetogram, an interesting story. The decision of the Constitutional Court is an interesting story for you. The pierre who wrote this to you laid on the line. Did you happen to find a calimeter virus, too? Is any criticism of you also an injustice? Has the Constitutional Court conspired against you, too?Oh, my God! Come on, please. The Constitutional Court has decided that just when you decide to open schools, it will give you a decision to make it easier. And that's the story. And this is a conspiracy against you. And what is even more powerful and actually wins in the whole story and your opening debate: "We gave twice 150 euros for students." They've been closed for a year now, not a single euro a day! And that's a success for you? At the same time, from the same customer or with the help of your client, they fly from state cash millions without problems, as it were. [[shows with gesture]] . But that's another department, you don't have any responsibility, not political, not moral, not ethical. In short, your success is measured in millions borrowed and lost, and your loss is mainly in lost childhood and lost knowledge. In fact, I feel sorry for you because today at least part of your personal and professional integrity could be maintained by accepting at least this part of your political responsibility. And I'm sure in the last few minutes you'll be able to make good use of your time and look again between the lines. But the guilt will remain. And another statement you made: “We know what we are doing.” If that's true, then me and a lot of people here are very afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič, prepare Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, secretary of state, everyone else! I think it's a long day behind us. We've said a lot to each other and I'd add something. As I follow this debate, it is very interesting for me to do some summary of everything that has been going on in the last year. When I come to the National Assembly, I have a feeling that the virus can't find a way into this space or that the virus isn't a problem that we're dealing with last year, even when I consider how the opposition behaved to those key elements that prevent the spread of the virus as such. So, the problem was masks, the problem was wearing masks, there was a lot of talk here, a lot of such and different contradictions that cast a shadow on the meaning of this measure. This started at the very beginning and then went on, and we mentioned many times who was very active in this area, which of the opposition's parties. Then very much energy was used to discredit the application as intended for tracking infections. Then a lot of energy was used to discredit testing as such, and a lot of energy was also meant to protest. Why parliamentary parties who have access to these microphones should still protest on the street, to a pay phone, to a number of mechanisms, to institutions in our constitution, I do not know as a political scientist, because this is usually intended primarily for civil society. When political parties start interfering with civil society, then we have one strange mix that degrades civil society as such. But good. Protests have already begun — when? - Last February. The government wasn't designed at all, only the talks ran, and there were protests, preventive. The February protests were already very different this year, we were told: Open schools. I believe that citizens and citizens, in general all those who were involved in this story in one way or another, or who were affected by the closure of schools, once again understood this as an element of civil society, as an element of people who feel in some kind of crisis or who want to achieve something. Then again, we found that these protests were behind politics, individual candidates or candidates who were on the opposition National Assembly lists. So then I wonder if it's really sacred in our country. Even when we're talking about a pandemic, is every mechanism really used to get close to you, or do you turn to power again? Obviously not, obviously everything is possible, everything allowed and the pandemic is used to open doors to government rooms. Then all these many calls for resignation. At the end of the previous year, the Constitutional Court ruled on one case which was decided in 2013 when the Government was led by the SAB when we had the Tax Procedure Act on the table in the National Assembly. Some kind of nationalization happened back then. Today, we estimate that €100 million will have to be recovered from the budget, and there are calls for a withdrawal, for the responsibility of anyone who was involved in these stories at the time? No, you don't. We're talking today in one very, I'll say, politically unarticulated way. The problem was masks, the problem was the app, they weren't a protest problem, and then we're surprised if it was a bad epidemiological picture, then we're surprised that schools are closing down, then we're criticizing the government because it's taking harsh, disproportionate measures because these measures are taking too long. Don't be surprised if this is happening. I understand all of this mainly with a view to overthrowing the government. The epidemic, as I said, is being abused for this purpose. The chronic evidence we have been listening to for several weeks is that schools have been closed for the longest time in the world in Slovenia, and then today we find that they have not been closed for the longest time in the world, but in Europe. Then we go a little further, just in the European Union, then a little bit further, because in fact we see that it was an abuse, a lie, if I say domestically, they were closed only when the second wave took place. A lie, a big lie. Statistics. Statistics can be used or abused for a lot of things, and you are doing this in the opposition today. That's not right. It's hard actually to talk about some correctness in here. Why is there so much energy invested in the field of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for my concepts? Because this ministry is very important because through it you can perform some kind of indoctrination, because it can be beautifully politicized and can carry out some kind of ideological struggle. That's not right again, because it's happening on the shoulders of our youngest. That's not right. As a matter of fact, it's not right, and we're here to abuse this area. If we look at all our neighbouring countries or countries across the European Union or around the world, they have been in the same trouble everywhere. We were more successful in the first wave, when I took the words of the opposition, Slovenia, i.e. citizens and citizens, not the Government, and in the second wave the Government was responsible for the situation. So we already have different criteria here, different criteria. Where we as a country have a problem, it is in the past that we can better manage a number of subsystems, and in this case, in particular, education is one that has drawn short. But not just education. If we look at it, there's homes for the elderly. Systematicly, it hasn't been invested in years and years. If we do not view these subsystems as interdependent, then we do not understand anything in the fight against this coronavirus. In this respect, the situation in schools as such must also be taken into account. I am pleased that things have turned positive, I am pleased that the Government and the Minister of the Ministry have also taken this important step forward in terms of digitisation, that in the most acute situations things have been going forward, and that a lot of resources have been made available during this time and that many more young people are being educated to have access to the tools that have made this education possible for them in the most difficult times. So thanks goes here not only to the ministry, but especially to parents and young people who have had enough patience in these difficult times and were particularly resourceful enough to keep the educational process going and that this year was not lost, absolutely not. I believe that these challenges will be very large in the future, but we can solve them only and only together. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Comrade Pajovitch, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think Mr Perič fully understood me in a few of my statements. When you talk about masks, apps and testing, come to me and I'll explain to you who's had the biggest problems in these three things where you put so much hope. I'll explain or because it will soon come to the surface when the commission of inquiry begins its work. Just don't think about it and don't talk nonsense. Protests, however, are the result of these objections, which were mainly professional. And what we as a country have a problem with, Mr. Perič, is you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u229	That wasn't a replica, Comrade Pavšič. The word is from Minister Simon Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It's time for me to respond substantively now. I listened all the time to respond to all these content in the package. Even when I was gone, that doesn't mean I wasn't listening to you, but I was in room 110 because I had to stretch my limbs a little. I'm going to explain a few things again, I'm going to explain a few things further, but there are some things that I'm going to do where I'm going to fix you, because they were either excluded from the context or misunderstood today through this part that I've already presented to you. All in order to understand that you are hearing the reality of the situation, what has been happening from the point of view of the work at the Ministry, including within the Government, in particular, so as not to needlessly make the story out of the non-existent problems. Let us first begin in the field of education and education, especially primary school work. Here are some other things I'd like to explain. When we decided on the fate of the education system in the government each week, of course, we followed the assessment given by the consultative group, followed in the first place the assessment made by the minister responsible for health, I probably don't need to explain why, and, of course, followed my assessment. My assessment, which has always been the first vote to try to do everything we can to ensure that the educational process is carried out in kindergartens and schools, but not at the cost of health. These are the facts. In fact, everyone on their side has one aspect of their own, their own interest, including the area covered by it, defended it, but in the end, as I told you at the outset, we had to decide as a group, as a whole, for what was most secure at that moment, the highest point of public good and human rights, which begins in this story of the epidemic with the protection of the right to life and health, and then all other rights are adjusted. In the meantime, the question was what is happening to that record of my 145 000 confirmed cases in education and education. This is the information I obtained from the current NIJ report: this is the information that says this: at the level of employees of teachers, teachers in preschool education is the number of thousands of 889; in primary schools of teachers, teachers of a thousand 662; in secondary schools professors, professors 437; other cases - it is not defined what other cases are, we will obtain this data from the NIJZ, so much so that you get, and that is also true, the definition of what are the other cases, which would certainly interpret it as all other employees in education and education, we know that this figure is very high, including all other support staff in our institutions – this figure is 142 thousand 985. From this out then this sum of numbers that I mentioned to you. But we're going to get this explanation, and I'm going to commit to it, so we're actually going to know what number we're actually talking about. By the way, all the data I have used today are publicly available and have been analysed by the expert research institutions involved in this data acquisition – NIJZ, COVID-19 tracker and international database, the World Health Organisation Our World and Data and, of course, the database we are acquiring from the European Union. So there is no undue concern here to operate on data that is not valid or that cannot be trusted. As far as the comment made by Ambassador Sukić is concerned. I did not say that they worked or that they were open educational institutions, I said that they worked in educational institutions, but not in institutions for children with special needs, as you mentioned. The wrong understanding was, I also went to look at my text, the educational institutions, nine of them we have, for children with educational problems who are in institutional care, they worked all the time. Actually, we never locked them up. So we're talking about this group. As for some other substantive aspects, then. Before I move on to this, there's more information about music schools. Schools of music for individual implementation have already been opened and opened in that first reopening. It is true, however, that they have not yet opened up, again due to the need for us to reconsider all security measures with NEIJ and, of course, through the professional work on the implementation of this part of the teaching in the field of so-called group education. So we're talking about assemblies here, we're talking about instrument training or education in music schools. We have this on the agenda with the consultative group tomorrow, if we get a good one and think about all the measures, I expect that we can open this part in the next week. We are aware of this, we are in contact with music schools and we thank them for this understanding, especially the students, until we find this safe way. As regards the issue of running competitions and scholarships this school year, also in the previous school year. All the competitions were postponed at the time we were supposed to be in full lockdown. I think it was just about two weeks ago that the district was sent, that new dates for the competition were adopted, so that they would be implemented. This is also the case for those – I think that in January or early February – calls for the execution of this competition or for the verification of knowledge from the German language. There, with the help of the German Embassy and the performers, we have reached an alternative solution, so that this verification can also be successful and no one will lose any opportunity to continue schooling or for the best possible conditions for schooling. We have also adapted this system of scholarships in the previous school year to look at past results and thus established some equality in conditions because some of the competitions have already taken place, but some of them have not been followed by this criterion together with the ministry responsible for work, because it is essential for the scholarship in our system. In this school year too, these criteria are adapted and will be reliably optimized in the experience of the previous school year in such a way as to ensure that students and students are not deprived of the final decision or the final solution. Mr Jelinčič has very much opened up the issue of kuriculum, the issue of curricula, the question of, in fact, with what emphasis, with what content in the future to go into the educational process. I think it's one of the big stories and one of the big challenges of time coming. At the same time, he set up a very difficult mirror for our education system, which shows that we have very much in the school system, most likely too complicated at the expense of leaking or losing knowledge of really basic content, fundamental goals, that our students often learn too complicated materials that do not give it on some basic and, let's say, sound reasonable grounds, but start building it from the ground up sometimes on some basis, which is either at the level of the development of reason or even life experience that they do not understand, and here, in particular, there is one thought that will be needed to move forward. But this thought will have to be made professional. It's that special feature of our department. Believe it or not, it is primarily a professional sector, which means that in fact all decisions in both the field of education and science and sport are taken in cooperation with the various professional councils, the professional bodies preparing the basis for the preparation of the substantive professional solutions, which are then confirmed at the level of political decision-making. In this case, of course, we are talking about the Institute of Education, we are talking about the various Commissions in question that are preparing these proposals, then at the level of the professional council, and then more or less than the proposal at the table of the Ministry and Government, in some cases also the National Assembly, and we decide on that. The reason we are doing this is because our system is based on the concept of public interest and is, of course, linked to public funding. At a time when the State is making money, then, of course, it must also be justified, for reasons of transparency and economy, to verify whether the money has been earmarked for the right things and for the right purposes. This is definitely the story of the kuriculum that will be one of the great stories. I expect it very soon and also directly in connection with this covid experience and in connection with the question of how, in what form, to measure the concept of digital in the educational system itself, to preserve and then to enrich the school space. A very similar story that awaits us and is still a major challenge is the issue of a more cost-effective approach to textbook policy. This means that, together with publishers and, of course, with expertise, we will have to sit down and see what we can and how we can optimize the system of textbooks, work volumes that cannot be, as this rule is now too long, on the shoulders of parents in the concept of public education and commitment, that we will also do everything on our side to allow free education. In this connection, we are also talking about the so-called establishment of an e-learning system. The first steps against this, together with the Institute of Education, are already being done by digitising learning plans and the entire entry platform, where all those textbooks, all those learning materials that already exist in digital form, are now being attached to individual curricula and can be used free of charge by both teachers and students later, I expect, with the next school year. As much as possible as a response to, say, the education-educational component on the first level of the vertical. Perhaps some of the comments or reports we received or obtained this month are directly related to the experience of distance education and the first assessments. There are contributions from one of the Slovenian daily newspapers everywhere. The first is one local contribution from Tolmin, from Vipava, director of the Škofia Gymnasium of Vipava: “Generation is not lost.” Here we have some kind of professional brief contribution in this regard. Then let's say one contribution from Barbara Zimic, Germany, which describes how education takes place during this time in Germany, two days in school, two at home, several hours online. The third contribution, however, is a contribution from the letters of one recognized intellectual, Dr Anton Suhadolec, who writes that his generation could not go to school because of the war, and describes, in fact, the situation of that time puts us in the current space and gives us quite a few important messages into thought and, I believe, into future action. The great story that awaits us, which has not been made in the field of education and education at this first level and which I take personally as unfinished work and a great commitment to all of you, is the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Decision on the financing of public primary schools. This is something we will do, I pledge if cooperation and also interest are shown on your side to continue until the summer of this year. Let's move on. Higher education and science. Yes, we certainly didn't do enough here during my term of office. I wanted to, and I also gave assignments to do a lot more. You're right, the law on scientific research has moved, it's coordinated, but it hasn't reached the finish line or across it. We have two 10-year strategies that you should already have on your desks. This is a strategy for the further development of science and research and a strategy for the further development of higher education. These are ten-year strategies, I could ask myself what has been going on for the last nine years, that none of this has been done, and I can assure you that my arrival started with this process to move, but it's moving slowly. It's too slow, according to my judgment. That is why I expect the new Secretary of State to do this work with the team he has chosen. This is the first instruction and work assignment he took up with the term of office. You wanted an explanation for the entries again. It has little to do with this story. The admissions to first-degree higher education, and then also to second-degree and third-degree education, something that the Government will be considering now in these days, have been just a kind of administrative task for too long, I'll say. This has been done every year after a certain coordination procedure, but at the level of professional management work and assessment and development has moved on and needs have changed. For this reason, the responsible political decision-maker, who also finances all these programmes, has to assume his part of the responsibility and do so in one way or another. It is true that we have already been very late at the Ministry level this year. We had already prepared the material for the government a few days later, and we had prepared it along a steady old path. It is true that, after listening to those first key responses that came from practice, from the needs of the labour market, we literally organised this strategic meeting within two days, this strategic conversation, and then prepared an entry that did not change for a single city according to the proposals sent to us by the colleges. But as you have already said many times, this proposal was complementary to the needs of the labour market and also to the needs of future students and students, for 50 places in computer and computer science – you have not highlighted this today, and I tell you – at the University of Ljubljana and for 50 cities, 40 in Ljubljana and 10 in Maribor, at the Medical College. One of the points, or one of the conclusions of this government material, when we confirmed our agreement, is that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health provide all the necessary additional funds and assistance to all three faculties in providing the other necessary conditions for the implementation of the increased subscription. So it's too much to worry about. We are in touch with these colleges, including the university, and we are preparing this responsibly. As I believe, colleagues at the Ministry of Labour, for economic development, and the Institute of Statistics at Umar are preparing a more accurate analysis of the situation in the labour market with an indicative projection of job needs by 2035. This will be the fundamental basis that will be followed in all the years to come by calls for proposals. This explanation, along with the explanation that in our country we have 14 institutions carrying out higher education activities, three public universities, which have a total of 49 universities, one independent higher education institution and 10 private higher education institutions. Yeah, it's true. Of course we're talking to all of them. It would be irresponsible, it would actually be very problematic if it weren't. The doors are always open to everyone, just as the doors are open to all research institutes to sit down, to listen to each other, to hear each other and then to do the best and the best solutions together. It is true, however, that we have a system that knows, both by law and by constitution, both public and private education, education and, of course, must support and encourage it under the same conditions. And here's the whole story, all the records, all the meetings, all the meetings are held in a transparent way, so there's nothing to worry about. Extension of accreditations. Very similar reasons – just as we extended student status, as we extended the status of young researchers, if they wanted to, in the light of the very difficult processes that higher education institutions must acquire to extend accreditation, we also wanted to help extend this accreditation status. The story stopped at the Constitutional Court, you are right, but not because of the solution you supported under the PKP, but because of the Constitutional Court's finding that the amendment of the Law 2017 created unequal conditions for the accreditation of public and private higher education institutions. It's a judgmental matter. In short, what you've accepted has not been and is not a matter of judgment in the Constitutional Court, but of one another. Did we have any other questions here in science that you were interested in? [[advertising from the hall]] Good. Then we can go on to sports. Sports. You are right, sport is one of the basic builders not only of national identity in a symbolic sense, but in particular one of the pillars of health and health in society. At the time when the greatest restrictions were imposed, the beginning of spring, the recreational sport for an individual was never prohibited. In fact, for a period of time, however, competition sports and professional sports were completely closed, and that is true. However, as soon as the first relaxation measures took place, this then began to return in one such controlled way, including competitions. A very similar story with one major difference happened then with this other closure. The sport was limited in terms of a certain part of the categoryed sport for the younger categories and closed for one period the recreational sport, which is linked to the groups. All the time, recreational sports were allowed for the individual and for the individual when he and his family were outdoors. Now it has reopened in that first wave of opening also in closed sports spaces, but it has been activated all the time and has been given opportunities for training and also competitions at the level of top sport and at the level of professional sport, of course with respect for all measures, all the restrictions that are now necessary to prevent the transmission of the virus have been active. A result of that? I don't think it's necessary to repeat it in particular, but in spite of everything, because we can be very proud of it. The outstanding results that we have been monitoring since the summer onwards, in fact from that Tour de France until now, from the outstanding results of our Nordic people, who have returned well from the World Cup, to the successful, excellent organisation of the highest international competitions that our domestic organizers have successfully conducted, some will. The annual sports programme was published on Friday in the Official Journal, and on this basis a call for investment in sport infrastructure will be issued very soon. In both cases, investment in sports infrastructure you know that we have been bloodyly expecting them, the annual sports programme also financially, certainly at a level that is positive, which is encouraging. Participation in all these processes is always carried out with the professional council, with the Olympic Committee, with sports associations, including some societies, where possible and feasible, we will certainly come together and find a solution so that this activity can then be actively carried out. Then do we have anything else to do? Oh, of course we do. Something I need to show you again right now because I had a feeling that we didn't understand each other or that you didn't believe what I saw. Here [[shows the object]] is an example of responsibility. That's what I saw, and that's what I was talking about. These are students who were in Maribor with banners, masks, with an appropriate safety distance. I really do not understand what they might be afraid of or what they might have a problem with what you are saying. As far as my personal view is concerned, that's what we can be very proud of, and that's a picture that we can show all the time. But I'm also happy that we managed to get the students back to school today, right after the C-model, that other group. I believe they're happy and that they've started positively with a new return to school. Everything I've told you about has also gained its place in relevant anti-Korona legislation or packages. No one was released. In fact, some were also granted certain measures which were not otherwise granted. I have heard earlier that it is a shame that students received twice 150 euros in aid. Students have never been helped just because they're students. Because of the tribulation of this coronation, because of some symbolic attention we have given them, and we are probably one of the few countries in the world that have done so. It's one thing. However, we must not interfere – I also talk a lot with students – with the status of a student who comes only because of the status in terms of educational activity and student work. This is one other story, and this is a story that is mainly in the opinion and actions related to the Ministry of Labour and partly to the Ministry of the Economy. In fact, it is a question of how to provide an equal and encouraging opportunity or environment for those students who want to do it, who also need to do it during their studies, to do so at that time. This is also one of the reasons why we have finally reactivated the Student Affairs Council after almost a year and a half, with nine representatives from different ministries. Because it is about addressing the role and position of students in this broader sense, which is not only linked to the educational process, but rather to the challenges that need to be met in a broader sense, in order for students to put themselves on their own for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Madam Minister, I have asked you another question on which I believe you have forgotten in all this quantity. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u233	It's a replica, not a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u234	Yeah, I got a replica. Please give me a polite answer to the question of what will happen to the student homes, when they will open up and when students will finally be able to return to where you expelled them from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u235	Comrade Alaj Kovačič, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u236	Minister, I was just talking about extending accreditation. Now I really don't know if you really don't understand what the Constitutional Court has accepted. You're talking about 2017. The Constitutional Court has reserved you with a decision from the PKP6, an initiative given by former Maribor Rector Daniel Rebolj. The extension of accreditations, the Constitutional Court has retained you, and you are talking about some of the 2017 cases, and you have three secretaries of state with you. Who's writing to you this nonsense you're talking?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u237	That's not a replica either. Word, replica? [[No, no, ……]] Proposer. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u238	Thank you. I know we're already at the end of the line, but I don't think that's gonna go through with it. As far as PKP6 is concerned. It's just some eccentric deceiving at work. We had an obvious case of lobbying. Peter Jambrek and Abel arrived at the Ministry of Education and Education on October 27 – what did they do? They requested an amendment to the Higher Education Act in such a way as to ease the conditions for universities, it is said that they could then normally extend accreditation. What happens then? Two secretaries of state, one secretary of state and one director of the Directorate, Mr Jure Gasparič and Dr Jana Javornik, object to such changes and then agree in some discussion to invent this solution in the PKP6, a solution that only the New University had a problem with. The only New University was before the first accreditation that wouldn't go through to NAKVIS. And then the ministry or the minister unilaterally decides that this thing will be done, even NAKVIS opposes, I quote, 2. 12. NAKVIS issued a declaration that "the proposed legal solution in Article 57 of the CAP6 constitutes an unacceptable interference in the process of re-creditation in progress and the placing of Slovenian higher education institutions in an unequal position, as hundreds of people are involved in proof of the quality of their work in individual universities and others would be excluded from such verification". This is why the Constitutional Court, on the initiative of Rebolje, has assessed and has therefore retained this part of the PKP6 with precisely this argument that if someone went through accreditation under the terms of the PKP6, this would be equivalent to those who had already had to go through this procedure before the PKP. That is why the Constitutional Court held this case, not because — I don’t know — what the minister said. And that's the eccentric damage she was trying to do in this area. In this case, it goes directly to the benefit of the University of Peter Jambrek, a longtime traveling companion of John Janša and SDS, including the so-called SDS ideologist, and to the detriment of all others, including the public universities that have already put these procedures through the past years. So that's the problem. Here, Minister, there is direct and concrete damage, with a clear suspicion of the privilege of certain persons. Maybe just for the end, what happened to Jana Javornik and Juret Gasparic? They left the Ministry, like four other people. One of these people today, when she listened to the Minister's presentation, published a public statement on her Facebook profile about how this sending of people with MIŠ was done – without a look in the eyes and without any clear explanation. This person – the minister – will already know who it is, and I will not name it – wrote that she was aware that she was going to the Prime Minister of the Government, that she was going into Janez Janša's nose, and the minister was supposed to say to this person, quote: “Do you know what the pressures are? I can no longer defend you." And the next morning, he was no longer employed at the Ministry. This is also part of the visions that we have laid down today. The evidence that he is unable to defend neither the closest associates nor those present in the Cabinet or the Ministry in the highest positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, the last to be prepared by Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I had to wait all day to get to the word. I have to apologize to you, because I was about to cancel, after the Minister's performance, especially in this last part, but I have two words to say. Don't mind, Minister, because I'm going to touch you. After my last performance, I met Simona — nothing much. There's one thing I have to say. Interpellation, Minister, is one of the tools of the opposition that alerts to the irregularities that the minister in the government is doing. There can be only one irregularity and that is already, I'll say, the reason for the interpolation and the opposition may have this opportunity to do the interpolation. In this interpretation, which you've probably all read, there are 20 points, 20 things that, in our sense, you didn't seem to have done or that you've done them wrong. It's nice that you're saying what you're going to do next, and of course it's commendable, but what you're going to do next has nothing to do with this interpretation. We're interpreting you for what you are or what you did or didn't do. That's an essential difference. Let's leave these white books now, and so on, if we look at who's been running the ministry for the last four years, because we know who's running it, including the SMC. For four years, Minister Simona and I were sort of a traveling companion in the coalition, and we probably got to know each other well. I have to say that I know your political views very well, and I know your ideals and your thinking very well. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that I feel like we know each other very well – where are these positions, where are these ideals, where have these glances been lost in such a short time? I don't know. Man is an intellectual, man is academically educated to do so. [[shows with gesture]] You lose your ideals quickly, I don't know. I don't know, it's probably very nice to be a minister. I'm probably never going to be a minister, there's more reason, but is it really that good to be a minister? I don't know. What am I going to say? What am I going to say? What am I going to say? You know what people from the minister miss? In particular, they are lacking by the minister in the segment covered by the Minister for this segment, even at the time of the epidemic, which is absolutely demanding. If people working at the Ministry, working at school, teachers, professors, had the feeling that at the departmental ministry a person fighting for their status on a daily basis for their problems, even if he was not successful, the matter would be fine with me. But since they sometimes get the sense that the minister is not the only one, he hides in two months and he's gone, then starts talking, and then there's the problem. Now to show pictures of these students – we can definitely all fight for them now, but only one thing is problematic, they have been punished and they have to go to court. That's the only problem right now. Some were fined and some got and went to court and could hold what posters and could hold what distance, these kids, these students, because of their look, they got punished for their engagement. I know, Minister, that you didn't write them a ticket, I know that wasn't your idea either, and I know that if you were there, you wouldn't have done it, but one of them has to stand up for them in the government. They expected the Minister of Education to pull for them. Even the president of the country withdrew, the opposition withdrew for them, and the Minister of Education – perhaps we all misunderstood your statement. But your statement was in this sense: they already know, they go toward the adult world, the adult world is cruel, and they must pay these penalties. Today you say it was misunderstood – thank God, but these guys, these girls, they still have a lot of punishment. In this epidemic, if you ask me, besides all the employees, health workers, patients, in your department, high school students who graduate from high school, graduates. For the first time, they didn't know when they were going to write the graduation, they didn't know how the graduation was going to be written, then they got information that they couldn't sign up for high school, that something was going to change. And you know what kind of shock this is for a high school kid who's lost in those days that's under some kind of pressure. That's when you, like some authority, couldn't go in front of the press, say, like this and this. And they were back in some kind of air, and they were hunting again. Students, too. We all have – well, I also have a student at home. The problem with college right now is that teachers are burdened. Today, when these students write their master's assignments remotely and so on, they have no contact with the professors, and every day their professors, and their mentors cancels, they have to write a new degree. And that's what happens, it happens every day. I don't blame them, professor, but one will have to make some order in this area. Who's responsible for this? Minister of Education. I'm not going to talk about sports because my fellow sportsmen who know each other much more than I do have to say everything. But please, Simona, not you, not me, not this national council – for Roglic to win in France, but we didn't do anything. Now don't brag with Roglic that he was a good cyclist because we are ministers. He's been cycling for a while now. There is no problem with what the present athletes have done, the problem is what Matjaž German said — because of this epidemic, the problem is what the results will be in three years. Then it'll be a problem, not what's behind it. As my colleagues have already said, I'm very sorry, I'm going to support this interpretation, because I don't think you've done the best job, Simona. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, since there are relatively many of you here, I would still appeal to you here also publicly that, given that we are performing a professional function, in accordance with the Constitution, we are calling in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're friends and colleagues, and we're having coffee, and of course we're dealing with it, but here we are at work. I also ask in the context of the various institutions to call on us in this Chamber. The word was wanted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only three very short concluding thoughts I'd like to share with you. This space, Parliamentary, I understand as a consecrated space, which, despite political diversity, must remain in the first place of one responsible word. Words that are the product of reason, especially in these times. One mind that understands that dialogue is crucial, a mind that is clinging to the art of spoken, a mind that is a guarantee of freedom and a guarantee of the future, and also a guarantee that the temple of democracy will not be transformed into a temple of unfounded accusations, but into a temple that will seek fair and just solutions for all in all the diversity that we overcome, and a ham that will be used and followed, in particular, by the words of tolerance, respect, words that will not be found in this book prepared by my colleagues at the Ministry and is the result of the last two months of comments on the online media at my expense. Terrible words are those words that no longer have any sense of humanity or humanity. That's why you haven't seen me for a month. I worked, I didn't need any rest, no rest, but for the sake of protecting my own integrity, what happened here – half of this is by the gentleman mentioned earlier by Member Han. That's why. If this is the way we intend to continue the public dialogue and thus report that this is the right, respectful dialogue in this society, then unfortunately we will only have to meet at such public meetings. I absolutely don't want that, and I think we're so civilised that we can avoid it in the future. I would like to say that, according to what I have heard today, I very much welcome this debate, because in it I see two key positive moments and two key positive messages in the light of what I have said before, in the light of the search for a common commitment to cooperation and to the search for common solutions. Where do we definitely agree? We agree that children belong to kindergartens and schools and that it is our primary task and responsibility to do everything we can to protect and educate them in kindergartens and schools. Even on our side, it is on the side of our examples whether we succeed or not. We already summed up, each one of you in your own way, you were right, we were through communication, with you through certain apps that were not very encouraging to adopt a new culture of protective action, here in particular wearing masks. But we've studied and I believe we can move on because we have the same goal, and there was no dilemma here. The second positive message of today, which we have quite forgotten or neglected over the years, is very important, is that we have finally re-recognized how centrally important a place in our society and in our country has a field of education, education, science and sport and that we have here one great responsibility all together, how we will work in this developmental sense in the future. In the end, there's only one short commitment that I'm giving to all of you in some way again. If I get enough votes today, there's only one thing I promise. That I will continue to fight for the autonomy of all those who form the school field, the field of science and the field of sport, and that I will do my best to find the best possible solutions for the future of this, as has already been said, a key area for our society and also for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u244	Dear President, I'm going to follow your instructions. I'm sorry. It's late. [[…]] I apologize – your recommendation. Dear Minister, I have not mentioned any gentleman in my debate, so I don't even know which gentleman you're talking about. Maybe you misunderstood me. That's all I want to clear up, because I usually follow my words as much as I stand, but I'm not talking about any gentleman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u245	Thank you very much. He has the word as the last reported Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u246	Thank you very much. What did today's interpolation bring? 16 hours of torture of a woman who runs the second most difficult resort in this country at this time, fabricated, falsified data, lies, manipulations, even chauvinistic remarks by parties, proponents from the left. It's a waste of time and money. But what is hardest and worst — a subtonia that is horrifying and outvotes everything and is seen in the debates. The proponents, the left-hand parties do not at all understand the concept of democracy that customers are changing in power, but that they are not constantly in power, they take it as an anomaly. This suggests totalitarian thinking, which belongs to the dump of history. I congratulate the Secretary of State on her tenacity, courage and heroic endurance of this 16-hour torture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the representative of the interpellationary proposer are given the floor. He wants to speak to the secretary? You have one more minute. No, no, no. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u248	Thank you very much, President, for your word. It was a really long debate. We've asked you many questions, Your Honor, but unfortunately you haven't answered the key. Only one of the things that you have now pointed out in the end with regard to accreditation and determination in the PKP6, where you in some way wanted to privilege the University of Jambrek. You, Madam Minister, mentioned the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which took place at a time when the Ministry of Education was headed by your Minister, the predecessor. This article, this provision, has obviously become controversial for you all of a sudden. At the time, it made sense, and now it's obviously controversial for you, because it kind of restricts private higher education institutions. This is concrete evidence of how SMC policy has changed in a few years or how it has succumbed to the presidency of the largest government party. But I'm sorry, the Constitutional Court didn't talk about it. The Constitutional Court was talking about you in some way, illegally, unconstitutionally circumventing this law. That was the key problem. You passed this law, which you or your SMC transition changed years ago. You have now bypassed it because there was no agreement to change within the ministry, and you have simply thrown the matter into the CAP and defined it as a measure that reduces the consequences of the coronary crisis. That's unconstitutional. I hope to say that there are also very serious indications that it is corrupt, but we are still waiting for the decision of the anti-corruption commission. Fortunately, however, the measure has been delayed at least temporarily, because it is specifically about helping friends of the Prime Minister. However, the facts are that we would expect the minister to be in some way a lawyer, a school force protector, athletes and so on. But you're everything but that. At least that's what you've proven by your actions. Schools were closed only in the second wave for four months and more. Was that absolutely necessary? Did you advocate that it would be different, despite the warnings of the profession on all sides? No, you didn't, and it wasn't necessarily necessary. Did you make the necessary adjustments in time between the first wave and the second wave in order to be able to learn? You're not. Have you prepared solutions to address the consequences? You're not. And this is all your responsibility, Your Honorable Minister. This is your responsibility and responsibility to the government. As I said before, you should be a locomotive in some way, the chief advocate of your area, but unfortunately you are a manual brake, the enforcer of non-professional orders by John Janša. That's why it would be right for you to leave this place today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The text is also delivered by the representative of the proposaler, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u250	I'll add a few more thoughts to what my colleague Marko said. At the outset, the Minister said that this debate would take place in such a way that the coalition would defend the Minister and also show how successful she is. This forecast has come true. Expected, because we knew this would be the debate, unfortunately. But this forecast also showed – and I remembered this when my colleague Perič said, "Is there really nothing more sacred in our Slovenia, I remembered one quote from Luke's Gospel: "What are you looking at in your brother's eye, but you can't see the brown in your eye?" That was the debate. This coalition with the Prime Minister of the Government is literally building an alternative world, an alternative world, where every criticism, every different view is reversed, wrong, attack, unworthy, and I don't know what else. You could also call it an allegory of Caesar's new clothes. We heard about how great everything was, from the area of distance education to the fact that everything was taken into account that we were having a dialogue, and I don't know what else. If this is so, how is it possible that a large part of the teachers in this country and a large part of the principals in this country, a large part of the teachers, psychologists, development psychologists, sociologists, I don't know who else, students, students full of criticism for the minister almost a year ago? Minister, do you also agree to the evil thesis on mainstream media, #MSM, what the SDS has been using for some decade? That there is some great conspiracy that always turns against John Jansa and his companions? Are you in this role now that you are attacking so-called mainstream media? Because otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. We read, we read new and new letters every day. Today, for example, a letter from Bežigrad Gymnasium professors has been published criticizing the demolition of democratic standards in this country, led by this government, which you want or do not want, you too, Minister, 54 have signed. There a fellow SDS man screams that a book should be given to 54 professors from Bezigrad High School. Bravo, that's the way. A survey was also published today. The survey examined public support for three interpolations that will take place over the next two weeks. 53.6% of the respondents chose interpretation against Dr Simono Kustec for the most reasonable reason; this interpretation opposes 30% of the people; the rest are undeclared. Someone made that up, didn't they? It was invented by an evil opposition trying to overthrow the government and all the ministers, wasn't it? Responsibility for bad work, for the bad results that have been shown at this time, must be taken over. Even the people who were critical of the Prime Minister at the Ministry, the most eclectic Mr Gasparič, when he said that there was nothing wrong with the calls and that everything had been done in time, had to fly away. Someone hoped to say: “Caesar is naked,” and he lost his job. These are the things we've been trying to talk about today, these are the things we've been trying to put down in these 20 points of interpretation, and this is what I initially said to the Minister at the beginning of this debate. In the meantime, you said that you had your grade and that you had just decided to do so. I don't believe it. I don't believe in this defense that was made today, because I'm sure you haven't shown the ability to use your mind without guidance from anyone else. This year's ministry of education has shown that a lack of determination and courage is actually the fault. A crime that has had serious negative consequences for the entire area covered by the Ministry of Education. Of course, this debate today also reveals this sad situation of parliamentaryism, where, if only a coalition has sufficient support, sufficient number of votes, interpretation is as good, I don't know, even the minister can agree with some of the findings, but it will not be successful. It's important that he's ours. No matter what, and I will conclude with that, this interpretation was our obedience. The obedience we have given to all those who have persisted in this year to the Ministry, who wanted to contribute to this area, who wanted to say their problems in this area and what to make a difference. As the opposition to us, there is no alternative to asking questions from Members, initiatives, urgent meetings, so we have shown this interpretation to people, students, their parents, schoolchildren. That's why it's also so long, some said that even unusually long, 20 points. But it's all piled up in this one year. It is sad that all these findings, which have not only grown on the ovary of the opposition, but, above all, have been evidences that have been coming all the time from the professional and interested public, have been referred to as some kind of blister as an empty attack. I repeat what I said in the opening statement today. It is time to show some courage to resist someone else’s opinion — we know who the other one is — that a critical word is also found for the one who thinks he is unmistakable. And if that is not the case, then it is the only truly critical and obviously subversive act for the minister of this government to resign and thus show his disagreement with what is happening in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u251	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. While the time for discussion has not yet run out, it has remained 12 minutes, so if there is no special desire for a debate, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the National Assembly that, following a discussion, the following decision be taken: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation lodged, express its non-trust to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec, and shall dismiss her from office and shall terminate her duties as Minister. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. What explanation for the voice? [[Yeah.]] Mr Matey T. Vatovec on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u252	It's serious. There's no explanation for the voice. As you know, the President also announced at the beginning of the meeting that our Member, Željko Cigler, is attending remote meetings, but has problems with access. It's about the state council techniques, and they're solving things. So let me just say what this situation is like, President, you decide how you're going to solve it, but it's also one of those things that we've been alerting you to.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u253	Dear colleagues, colleagues, yes, we do have some technical problems with the connection, but our Rules of Procedure are so widely written to allow us to check his will on the phone as well, so that we will do so. What explanation for the voice? Yeah. Who on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. In the personal name of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. As a science-mathematic technique, I like logical reasoning. If someone who didn't protect my students, if someone who didn't protect my people from his office, says, I promise you, I'll keep trying to protect my fields and my people – I don't know, there's something wrong here. If someone as a regular teacher is lying to me that we're the best in space computer science, I have a problem. It seems to me, you know, that we have a problem with people who come from the profession who are too many of us think they don't need to learn politics. If we're perfoxy in college, we're when we fall into Parliament, we're eggs, and we want to start learning. Because what Mrs Minister did at the end was more of a lecture, which is more part of the FDV on Thursday afternoon, when students are bored, than responding to 20 points of interpretation. That's why I'm going to vote against it. I'm not going to support it if I continue to be a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now we're gonna call our friend Brick. Let's wait for the technical service to do its job, see if we can hear him on the speakers if he hasn't gone to bed. Shall we hear him? [[Yeah.]] I ask my colleague Željko Cigler how he votes on the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u256	State Hall, good morning! I vote for interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-15-SDZ8-Izredna-65.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote, we're going to add his voice to ours. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In view of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
