ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Nik Prebil from 10 a.m. on, Igor Zorčič from 18:00 on, Jerca Korče, Maša Kociper, Andrej Černigoj from 17:00 on, Tadeja Šuštar Zalar from 17:00 on, Blaž Pavlin from 18:00 on, Jožef Horvat from 18:00 on, Jože Lenart from 15:00 on, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Nataša Sukić, Primož Siter, Violeta Tomić, Samo Bevk, Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Meira Hot. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving to 14. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. The essence of this law is to achieve the burden of businesses and individuals and to ensure greater competitiveness of the business environment, which will affect economic growth and increase international competitiveness. Slovenia is known to be the least competitive in international research and comparisons between the countries most taxing the work. The proposal proposes to relieve the income of employees by raising the general benefit of a thousand euros each year by 2025. This would also ensure that the income of individuals who are essential for life would not be taxed. In fact, it is a moral and ethical question whether the State is taxing incomes which, according to professional international comparisons, are those incomes that mean that they are necessary for someone to survive. Such solutions would increase the net salary of employees on equal gross wages. For example, in 2022 at a minimum wage of 160 euros, at an average salary of 260 euros and at three average salaries of 330 euros. This would also happen at the end of the proposed period of 2025, with these amounts increasing from €640 to €320. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the rate of income from capital from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent. The proposal is to shorten the period of holding capital from 20 years to 15 years in order to relieve the income from the rental of assets by reducing the rate to 15 per cent in order to reduce the percentage of the standard costs recognised in determining the tax base from the income from the rental of assets from 15 per cent to 10 per cent. At the same time, the ratings for electric cars are being eliminated, which is consistent with the Green Policy not only of us, but of the whole of Europe and the whole world. A reduction of the tax base of EUR thousand 500 is introduced for persons over 70 years of age and is said to be pensioners. The financial impact was assessed for 2022 at the time of the creation of this Law on the basis of data for 2020, when this Act was to enter into force, in a reduction of income by 247 million. On the basis of today's data from January to September 2021, on the basis of which income from income is higher than 214 million, this difference is virtually eliminated. Taking into account the increased value added tax revenues and taking into account that there will also be a higher income in the last three months, this financial impact, which has been stated in the law as manco, has in fact been eliminated. In other words, with successful economic growth, with successful policies, full employment, we have destroyed this manka. At the same time, let me say that the congregations will not be harmed either because the state will cover any flaws or financial compensation. Greater productive, more demanding jobs, more competitiveness also requires adjustment of tax legislation, so I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! The government sent a proposal for amendments to the three tax laws to the National Assembly in early May, namely proposals for amendments to the laws on corporate tax, on income and value added tax. Today, we are starting with the first reading of the changes to the Income Act, with which the Government wants to increase the total relief of thousands of euros per year by 2025, which means from the current 3 000 500 to 7 000 500 euros. It is also proposed to introduce a senior relief scheme for over 70 years of age. In the fifth income class, the government wants to relieve the tax burden by reducing the tax rate from the current 50 per cent to 45 per cent. For debtors with interest income, dividends, real estate sales and other capital income, it proposes a reduction in income from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent. The rate of rent income is expected to fall from the current 27 and from the current 27 to the 15 per cent and from a few minor changes. Today, in the Group of Non-Related Members, we will not debate whether this tax reform will maximize the income and wealth of the richest, and to the very least, the poorest taxpayers, and thus contribute to increasing income and property inequalities in Slovenia. This area will certainly be addressed by other parliamentary groups. However, we will draw attention to the failure of the macroeconomic fiscal policy pursued by this government with the proposed changes. The proposed tax changes, which are all three laws, would, according to the Government's estimates in 2022, have a direct impact on the government's deficit of €335 million and €937 million after the transitional period in 2025. However, the greatest financial impact would have been the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, as the Government estimates that, when the proposed amendments were finally implemented in 2025, they would have resulted in a fall in government revenues of almost EUR 850 million. In 2025, three years after this government has completed its mandate, public revenues will be close to €1 billion. It is probably not too much to point out that the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government have proposed a similar tax reform with a reduction in tax rates, as proposed now, in the 2004-2008 mandate, and the overall impact of the global financial and economic crisis was a reduction of public financial inflows of EUR 900 million. Slovenia also increased its public financial deficit to EUR 1.9 billion in 2009. The country's deficit thus reached 5.5 GDP, and the country's decline in public financial inflows added to its debt of 4.1 billion euros as a result of the crisis, with the country's debt rising to 12 billion euros or almost 36% of GDP. Therefore, according to our assessment, such a fallout poses an excessive risk to the public financial sustainability of the whole of the country. These measures will also, according to our assessment, result in a high nominal public debt, and we do not know how long monetary policy will support such an expansionary fiscal policy. It is now, but the signs of inflation or stagflation and the energy crisis are a warning we must not ignore. In explanation, the government cites classical phraseology as having an impact on more employees, an increase in general consumption, thereby increasing the inflows from other taxes, such as VAT. If we were just to play a little bit with the public financial data on the inflows from these taxes, even if taxpayers or consumers were to spend all the extra income they would have left on goods and services in Slovenia, only EUR 186 million of 850 mank would be returned to the budget by VAT. In order to compensate for the loss of many employees, some 120,000 new workers should be employed at current rates of income. We do not know in the Group of Members of such an economic mechanism advocated by the Government and Mr Shircelj, which would have such economic effects in the global economy. In fact, the President of the United States of America, Reagan, introduced something similar when he took power after a long period of stagflation. In response, he created a so-called supply economy that supported a reduction in the rate of income tax and the capital gains of legal persons. He believed that savings would run into the economy and stimulate growth. He also anticipated that more taxes would be paid over time, which would increase public financial revenues. Experience has shown, however, that the economy of the supply or reduction of taxes with a view to increasing consumption and increasing economic growth do not have the expected effects. However, Mr Šircelj and his SDS are also implementing a similar economic fiscal policy as Republicans in the United States. When they are in opposition, they always point to the necessity of a balanced budget, but only when they are not in power. When they come to power, they immediately forget about a balanced budget and advocate a reduction in taxes mainly for those with the highest income and capital gains. They also do not take into account calculations that show that their tax cuts will heavily burden public finances due to the need for increased indebtedness and funding of an increased budget deficit. If in opposition they are constantly reminded of the opinion of the Fiscal Council, they are now simply ignored or responded through the Government in a way that they are not obliged to submit, for example, a rebalancing of the budget for 2020, because they are not bound by the Fiscal Rule Act, and of course they forget that they are bound by the Public Finance Act. That there is still a general derogation clause from the fiscal rule and that its calculations show that the proposed expansionary fiscal policies, which do not at all include a projection of income shortfalls, are the answer to the current challenges. The best illustration of such a policy is Mr Shirtzl's performance on the Committee on Finance when he presented his candidacy for minister. At that time, he somehow acknowledged that thinking and defending, for example, the reduction or increase of general relief below always meant a budget balance and, of course, required an assessment of the constitutionality of the three budgetary documents, namely the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2018 and 2019, the rebalancing of the budget for 2019 and the Regulation on the public financial framework for 2018 to 2020. At that time, the SDS, in cooperation with New Slovenia, requested the Constitutional Court to find out that the total expenditure of the country, planned for approximately 270 million euros, was not in accordance with the Constitution and that the Government is therefore ordering the preparation of the balance within a month. What did Mr. Shircelj say then? I quote: “It’s about introducing fiscal discipline to spend as much as it does. The fiscal world is an independent and independent body. It is also right that this is an organ whose word applies something. As a result, there will be little going on in the economic and financial sphere, the issue of hygiene and discipline, as well as the issue of the rule of law. The government did not take into account the Fiscal Council.” And what was the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the proposed government and Shirtz's tax reform? First of all, I will give the first response in which the Council has written down, quote: "Economic policy must ensure that the measures taken do not create macroeconomic imbalances, mainly due to constraints on the supply side and absorption capacity, and to weaken the structural position of public finances and to unduly increase the debt of the State sector, or to avoid increasing the risk of long-term sustainability of public finances." As you know, the Commission had already discussed the tax reforms in question in June for the supervision of public finances and had also adopted conclusions calling on the Fiscal Council to prepare a comprehensive analysis within 30 days of the public financial impact of tax laws. It will also call on the government to harmonise future tax reform proposals in the context of social dialogue. In July, the Fiscal Council, in response to the Commission or to the analysis of the public financial effects of the proposed amendments to tax legislation, stated that the simulations presented show that the proposed tax changes without taking additional discretionary measures to ensure their fiscal neutrality pose an additional risk to the sustainability of public finances over the medium term. Taking into account the additional risks to the long-term sustainability of public finances resulting from the proposed tax changes, at least partial neutralisation of the impact of the projected government deficit on the balance would be necessary. However, some ways of such neutralisation or poor funding conditions could increase the risk of deterioration in the medium term and, as a result of demographic changes, already threatened by public financial revenues. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will take into account the opinion of the Fiscal Council and we will not support such reckless and irresponsible fiscal policies. In addition, representative trade unions in Slovenia have informed us of the extremely worrying state of social dialogue in Slovenia and of the decisions taken by the Government and we as the National Assembly through social dialogue and in violation of the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council. This is despite the fact that the decisions in which, in line with tradition, the social partners have always been actively involved and have been dealt with in the context of social dialogue in the Economic and Social Council. We were also presented with a proposal for an agreement on the awakening of social dialogue, which is intended for the Government. Why am I mentioning him? Since this proposal for an agreement in Article 9 mentions that an integral part of an agreement on the management of social dialogue is to deal with the laws already being dealt with in the National Assembly, including the Income Act. The union side's proposal is that this law remains calm until the coordination of the social partners is carried out in accordance with the rules of the Economic and Social Council. We propose to the government and the ruling coalition to listen to the call of one of the social partners and to reject and act as it did in July this year when it voted against the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases, or to act as it did in the case of the law on demographics when it postponed the decision. With the adoption of such legislation, the consequences would be, in particular, an increased income and property inequality between Slovenians, the fall in government revenues in 2025 and still almost 850 million per year. All three proposed tax laws would cause the government to lose its public income three years after the end of its term of office, almost one billion a year. Failure to respect or take into account the recommendations of the Fiscal Council in the drafting of such important laws should be taken into account by the Government and, in accordance with the tradition of laws, should be addressed in the Economic and Social Council. Finally, the potential for financing local communities — municipalities — would be reduced. And I could count it. Therefore, the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will vote against such reckless and harmful laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings to all present, especially the Minister of Finance! When we talk about income, we have in mind income from natural persons; not legal ones, but physical ones. It is therefore a matter of taxation for our people, so this is a particularly sensitive subject. As these people's income tax increases, their actual net income and, as a result, their purchasing power decreases, and in some ways their standard of living. On the other hand, through this mechanism, we are trying to maintain some kind of just contribution to society within the nation, and we do not want to have too many wealth differences and poverty, because we are all part of the Slovenian nation. By means of this law, we will increase the purchasing power of the Slovenes and the Slovenians and, on the other hand, intervene in the aforementioned equality mechanism within the nation. I assume that in the short and medium term this law will work favourably on the Slovenian economy, and I would like this to weigh, on the other hand, the lost EUR 247 million in the Treasury. That's what the government says. In the Slovenian National Party, we are generally in favour of raising the salaries of Slovenians and Slovenians, but of course we are also supporters of the mechanism that creates solidarity within the nation. The proposal for amendments to the Income Act is quite drastic, with more than a 100 per cent increase in income relief, from 3 000 500 to 7 000 500 euros. Here we must ask ourselves how this measure could have an impact on inflation by increasing purchasing power in addition to a coup d'état. In the Slovenian National Party, we are skeptical of the Government, as the proposal to raise income relief, as proposed by Slovenian migrant workers, was opposed. In the government, they explained how a rise in income relief could even pose a fiscal threat to the state, and now they have proposed a more radical measure in the same direction. In the Slovenian National Party, we then sided with the Slovenians, who serve their bread abroad, and here we tax them long and hard. At that time, you opposed it in the government, but now that this is your proposal, you have no problem with the virtually equal content that you have recently opposed. In the Slovenian National Party, we are still analysing and weighing all the consequences of this law. On the one hand, we are concerned about the consequences of such high losses in the state budget, especially as regards the development of municipalities, and on the other hand we support higher available income for the Slovenian people. This topic is very important and can have potentially major consequences for the economy, development, fiscal stability and the standard of living of the Slovenian people. That is exactly what we must be aware of in the Slovenian National Party and once again discuss and compare all the analyses so that we can make a final decision on the support of this Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Marco Pogačnik. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The main reason for the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act is to assist the economy and the population in the recovery of the covid-19 pandemic and to relieve administrative obstacles. In Slovenia, the tax gap has gradually increased since 2013 both for the population and for the economy. The burden of working with taxes and contributions in Slovenia is one of the highest in the European Union and even in the world. This applies, in particular, to higher and highly qualified posts with wages which are on average or slightly higher than the average. Due to the high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive, less productive, because it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. The high workload of work, of course, also has an impact on higher unemployment. Studies by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, demonstrate that the high burden of labour income is problematic in at least two aspects; the first is the pressure on the cost of work and the international competitiveness of businesses and thus the country, and the second can also be a risk of increasing the grey economy. Of course, the amount of workload of work also affects the income received by the worker, the remuneration he receives for his work, and we usually call it pay, is generally his main source of income and therefore has an important impact on his ability to spend or save that income. Gross salaries include social contributions paid by the worker, while net salaries are calculated after deduction of these contributions and all amounts owed to the State, such as income. In Slovenia, the country takes about 60 per cent of its net salary to a worker who applies only a general benefit in the form of contributions and taxes in the form of a minimum wage, with an average wage of around 80 per cent. In the case of a double average wage, however, the country takes the employee’s entire net salary and, in the case of wages higher than twice the average wage, this percentage increases more progressively. What does the change and addition of the Income Act sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia now bring? The following incomes will be taxed: family pensions under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, payments to pre-school children, pupils, students and students from the School Fund, and changes are expected in the area of credit ratings for electric-powered passenger vehicles. Since 2022, it will be a credit rating for vehicles, which are also for private use and employees, nothing. So far, the tax base accounts for 0.3% of the purchase value of an electric vehicle up to €60,000. The payment for business performance, taxation of business performance awards is amended in the new Income Law in the sense that it is less than the limit and less than the conditions. This will be felt most by those employees who have an average monthly salary higher than the average in Slovenia. Until that amount, the income will not be charged. Tax relief for employment, entrepreneurs will be given equal treatment in respect of tax reliefs following changes in the law to legal persons; tax reliefs for employment are extended to the employment of persons with so-called deficient professions. The amount of relief for these cases is 45 per cent of the person’s salary for the first 24 months of employment. Tax incentives for investments in digital and green transitions; a new facilitation after amending and supplementing the law will allow for a further reduction of the tax base if entrepreneurs invest in cloud computing, artificial intelligence and environmentally friendly technologies. Tax relief for donations. The tax relief for grants increases from 0.3 per cent of tax revenue to one per cent, while adding to the additional relief of 0.2 also paid grants for sports purposes. The income from the rental of the property, the rent income, will have two changes. First, it is a reduction in standardised expenditure from 15 per cent to 10 per cent, while at the same time the tax rate is significantly reduced from 27 per cent to 15 per cent. The lessee will be able to decide whether the income will be added to the annual income calculation or will pay a single tax. Capital gains. Capital gains will no longer be taxed after 15 years. So far, it's been a 20-year period. It's a general easing. Following the new Income Act, the general tax relief for residents rose from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 500 after the years allocated: EUR 4 000 500 in 2022 – EUR 4 000 in 2023 – EUR 5 000 in 500 in 2024 – EUR 6 000 in 500 in 2025 – EUR 7 000 in 500 in 2025. The law also provides for a new senior relief. Special relief will be granted after the new Income Act for persons who are 70 years of age, amounting to €7 000,500. Special reliefs will also be felt by those who have the status of a student or student and who achieve the income for temporary and temporary work, the relief will be recognised in a fixed amount of EUR 3 000 500 and will not be increased in the coming years, as is the case with the general. The change is also promising in the area of income. The income scale will undergo an amendment to the Income-2 Act, changing the rate of tax in the last, highest class from 50 per cent to 45 per tax base over 72 thousand euros. Type of change, type of relief, type of relief. Compared to the same salary, what will be known to the workers in the pocket. The monthly salary, if it is two thousand euros, the current net salary is 1,000 300 euros. After a new general relief and a change in net salary in 2022, the monthly increase was 22 euros, and in 2025 the monthly salary would increase to about 86 euros, representing more than 1,000 euros per year in the employee pocket. That the tax burdens in Slovenia are really high, the best example is migrant workers working in Austria. It is clear from this that this is not a double tax, but that higher taxes in Slovenia require migrant workers to pay higher income due to the surcharge. With this amendment to the Income-2 Act, this amendment will also be evident for migrant workers who will no longer have to pay such high amounts. The tax burden on labour income will also increase the net wages of workers. At the same time, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy will be increased, unemployment and the scope of the grey economy will be reduced. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the burdens in Slovenia are too high, which is also argued by research and comparative data with other countries of the European Union. One of the key problems with the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is the overburden of wages. This changes significantly with this change of law. The amendment of the Income Act following the conviction of the Slovenian Democratic Party represents a shift for both workers and employers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect you to be convinced, in the course of this debate, that the proposed amendment to the Income Act will be supported and that this will enable workers and workers in Slovenia to pay higher wages, but not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but at the expense of reducing tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act was part of a package of tax laws that the coalition wanted to adopt following a rapid procedure, but the proposal was rejected at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly this May. The reason was, as the Government had stated at the time, because if the bill was adopted later, there could be difficult remedial consequences. In the LMŠ Group, we feel exactly the opposite; the adoption of the bill will only lead to difficult remedial consequences for both public finances and the country as a whole. At the same time, the government estimates a billion EUR 507 million in the 2022 budget changes, with an estimated € 63.8 million higher in the already adopted budget of 2022, and an estimated €784 million in 2023. If the proposal had been adopted, the budget would have been less than 2.2 billion in the next four years, at least so the Fiscal Council believes. The government is counting on us to cover this by increasing economic growth, by increasing demand or spending, by increasing services in general. Taking into account the forecast of GDP growth, which is very optimistic, in the coming years, an average of 5 per cent will be very difficult to offset in the budget, even with much higher government spending. We must not forget that the bulk of the income is for the financing of municipalities. And the current mints, which are shared by the municipalities by the Government, can quickly become acidic. There are only two options in such a scenario that the Government is preparing for us: whether we will have to give up some of the already existing budgetary expenditure or continue without seriously considering what will be in charge of measures that have nothing to do with the epidemic in a few years' time. This means, too, that public finances and, of course, we, with all the louder forecasts of changes in the financial markets in the European Union, could be very severe and painful in the coming years. A public presentation in which opinions, proposals and comments could be communicated took only two weeks to make such an important change. The comments were largely not taken into account because, according to the Ministry of Finance, they were not in line with the objectives of the bill or related to the content which was not subject to this amendment of the law. As a result, trade unions withdrew from the Economic and Social Council in May this year. This was decided, as stated, by a systematic violation of the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council by the Government, and the Court found that the proposal for amendments to tax legislation, including the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, did not come to the table of the Economic and Social Council at all. In the LMŠ Group, we find it unacceptable that there is no adequate dialogue with the professional stakeholders when adopting laws, but if there is already, their proposals are not taken into account or taken into account very minimally. The conviction is that only I, here I mean the government, of course, I know how to, have never taken us very far. The proposal we have on the table also continues to undermine the principles that provide for each contributing according to his or her abilities and that the debtors in a comparable material situation are burdened in a comparable manner. It is also worth mentioning that the Government has recently proposed a number of persistent increases in public expenditure, which will further open up the scissors in public finances. Through this measure, the government indirectly suggests that in the next three or four years the Republic of Slovenia will either drastically increase its indebtedness or it will have to abolish certain policies, more than we can think today and more than is reflected in the draft budgets for 2022 and 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, due to all the above-mentioned proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, we cannot support the Charter of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is the position of the SD Group of Members. It will be presented by Mr. Gregor the Jew. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Dear Minister, Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! A similar but less harmful bill was tabled by members of the SDS, but at that time in the opposition role, a legislative process was concluded at the July meeting of the assembly, which was not supported by the Finance Committee. The proposal was also opposed by the Government, although it was proposed by its Members. At that time, we warned that the ruling coalition was demolishing its harmful marriage proposal only because the government had a proposal that would cause even more public financial damage. On the day of the beginning of that meeting, the Fiscal Council announced this. In an analysis of the effects of government bills, he pointed out that the implementation of this law would already amount to almost a quarter of a billion lower income budgets in the coming year and that in four years this annual deficit would increase to almost 850 million euros. In four years, this law alone would have caused us at least 2 billion and 205 million damages. Let me repeat this to all those who praise this proposal today, and they have not even had time since summer to go through the 4th page of the analysis prepared by the Fiscal Council on the Commission's proposal for the supervision of public finances – only in four years would this law cause us 2 billion and 205 million euros of damage! Here the reasonable would make a point, conclude their position and vote unanimously against this bill. But we live in unreasonable times and are ruled by people who do not care about the destruction they will leave behind. The only thing that can hold them back is the role of this assembly and the power it has to impose taxes on the government without the law adopted by the National Assembly. Therefore, we are obliged to present arguments here and to hope that at least Members and Members hear what the Fiscal Council has to say, that at least Members and Members can use reason to judge that now is not the time to scatter money, not at all, after the direct costs of the pandemic have cost us so far 4 billion and 407 million euros, and we all know that much of this money has been borrowed. Perhaps the Minister of Finance will be able to cheer us up today with up-to-date data on the cost of the epidemic when public debt, at the same time as the pandemic and government exchange, has jumped above the value of the long-term economic crisis, when we learn that the government will overrun this year's permitted spending by one billion and a half billion and that the budgets for the coming years have been set in such a way that the public financial situation will deteriorate further. And this proposal is just one of the many harmful measures currently being taken by the ruling. But all the tax cuts so far are only a drop in the sea. Last week, the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons will, for example, result in only 10 per cent of the shortfall that this bill would have caused in the first year alone. The proposed contents of this law only appear to everyone, but the effects will be felt most by those who already earn the most. The gradual rise in general tax relief should follow the objective of fairness that incomes under minimum wage should not pay taxes, but we must point out that this is possible only when two conditions are met. First, that equity and European comparatively tax assets and capital gains – while rulings are working in the opposite direction – and secondly that solidarity should cease to be undermined by the constant search for new excuses and ways that some would no longer contribute to common needs. The last case was proposals for the introduction of a social cap. For solidarity with the weak, the most successful must act in solidarity. The only way for the poorest to fully relieve taxes is therefore to progressively tax the owners and recipients of profits. But that is not what the rulings currently have in mind, quite the opposite, and with their gifts they aim primarily at those from the top of the pay scale. An example is a proposal for a senior relief. For more than 300,000 pensioners who receive less than 1,000 euros in pension, the introduction of senior relief would not change anything, it could benefit less than 80,000 pensioners, and a real change would only mean 21,000 or 5.7% of pensioners, whose pensions are now higher than a thousand and a half. Finally, we are obliged to draw attention to the other side of the story that the individual may actually have more money in one pocket, but that is why he will pay from another for treatment and education, and for his pension he will have to save himself. The state will have no resources to help all those who have nothing to pay taxes on, as well as municipalities that depend on the same resources, have fewer opportunities for all that is expected of them. The obvious direction of the rulings is that most of the questions should be again paid by the active generation and the medium layer, and the benefits would be above 5 percent. Therefore, a reasonable decision should not be difficult. The proposed changes undermine solidarity and progressiveity, do not take into account the circumstances in which we found ourselves, diverges from one of the key sources of funding for countries and municipalities, only a small group that deserves the most will benefit from the real benefits. Therefore, such a proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. This conclusion will also be followed by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much and very much! The purpose of this law is twofold; on the one hand, the increase in income inequality among peoples in Slovenia and, on the other hand, the exhaustion of the state, public finances, which will necessarily lead to new cuts in the social state and public services enjoyed by citizens of this country. It is interesting that at a time when the whole world is turning against such policies, they are viewed as misleading – but I am talking here not only about some left-wing policies, but this is how the world mainstream becomes, if you look at what is currently being said by institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, what the American administration is thinking or what the Chinese Communist Party is thinking, you will run into very similar things – that inequality in countries and around the world is too much, that capital will have to be taxed more, that it will have to be substantially better taken care of for equality and equal opportunities among people. This reform, however, goes in the opposite direction on both sides, both after direct effects that will increase inequality between people and after indirect effects. It is said that the 800 million budget cuts, of which 400 million will fall on the municipalities, will lead directly to lowering standards in the country. In short, after both wages, we will go down so that a few percent of the best paid in this country will receive slightly higher revenues. This is the grave reform. Now, let's take a closer look at the intestines. The first thing that comes into your eyes is to reduce the highest income class from 50 percent to 45 percent. There are 4,000 300 people in the highest income class. These are the people with the highest wages in the country, the people who earn more than 70,000 euros a year, and this action will benefit only these 4 thousand 300 people. It is not true what the Minister says or what the Government says that now the 5 percentage points lower taxation of this segment of the population will lead to the fact that better paid or better educated personnel will no longer be able to leave the country. Show me someone who in Slovenia earns more than 70,000 euros a year and has left this country because he thinks he is too taxed. Another time. The overall relief will rise from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 4 000 500 next year and gradually to EUR 7 000 500 by 2024. Here the government says that this will benefit the lower-paid, but the fact is that it forgets that there is also an increased general relief, which is already over €10 000, which those with the lowest wages benefit from. The effect of this raise, as the Government predicts, is this: someone with a gross salary of €800 will have none of it, someone with a gross salary of thousands of euros will be better in 2025 53 euros, someone with a gross salary of €2,000 87 will be better, and someone with 20,000 euros will be better. Thus, a thousand euros grossly pays 53 euros, 20,000 gross pays 614 euros. This is the effect of unloading by increasing general relief. Next. Untaxed goddesses for directors. Currently, it is registered in the Slovenian legal order that part of the salary for business performance as a Christmas house can be taxed to employees of up to 100 per cent of the average monthly salary in the country. Now, after a new 100 percent monthly salary in the country will be 100 percent of his own average salary, which means that the Mercator worker will receive 100 percent of his own average salary and the Marcator manager will receive 100 percent of his average salary. Now they can get up to €700 each, and someone will get 900, 000, 1,000, and someone else can get 20,000. And this is a direct consequence of this measure. Furthermore, in Slovenia, the problem is not only income inequality, which is increasing, but also the problem of wealth inequality. The structure is this: on average, the majority of taxpayers with incomes below €4,000 gross receive only one percent of their income from capital income. So, interest, dividends, rents and so on. The remaining 99 percent are received from their work. On the other hand, if we look at the thousand richest inhabitants of Slovenia, they do not receive most of their income from work, but from profits from capital, interest, dividends and real estate. The fourth measure in this law is in their best interest. This is a reduction in the income tax, which will reduce the income from capital income from 27 and a half per cent to 25 per cent, and from renting assets from 27 per cent to 15 per cent. These two measures were both fired in the wrong direction because, first of all, they increase the income of the richest segment of the population, which receives most of their income from capital. And secondly, at a time when real estate markets overheat, even in urban centres in Slovenia and in the coast, you will reduce taxes for renting assets for practically half, from 27% to 15%. This means that what is already being done in Slovenia will be paid even more; instead of someone who has savings in a bank or who invests, invests in a productive activity, buys an apartment in Ljubljana, counting on the prices to continue flying to the sky, while at the same time this apartment spends on so much money that it practically covers the cost of credit. You will also encourage this model and also pour oil on the fire. The consequences of this are, of course, higher housing prices that those who would really need, young people, families, and so on, can no longer afford. Housing has already turned our urban centers into speculative goods, and you will halve taxes for the speculators who do. And I know now that I'm going to hear from the other side that these are pensioners who own one apartment. But look, if you really want to help these pensioners who are giving away one apartment to get a little bit of their low rent, you'd rather talk about an integral income rate. This is a payment of income in a way that you pay at the same amount, whether you receive income from work, capital or interest. Then we could target those with lower incomes so they wouldn't be as taxed as they are. Thus, someone who rents 20 properties will pay 15 per cent for a 400-euro rent instead of 27 per cent. This will be known substantially to someone who receives 10,000 euros a month with rents. Believe me, there aren't so many in the country. The fifth measure is senior relief, where the painting is again very clear. You wrote the solution in a way to introduce a facilitating non-taxable income for pensioners amounting to EUR 1,000 500 per month. The calculations show that a pensioner with a thousand 200 gross pensions with this measure will be two euros better and a pensioner with 3,000 euros gross pension will be 151 euros better. In short, you re-create or deepen inequality in some totally irrational way. The argument that we often hear is that our taxes are too high and that if we compare ourselves with the surrounding countries, we will see that Slovenia is too taxed. The facts are as follows: 1.67 per cent of the average wage, which is around €3,000 gross, is 47 per cent tax in Slovenia, almost 59 per cent in Belgium, and also more in Germany and Austria than in us – 51 per cent, while the Czech Republic and Hungary are around – 46 per cent and 45 per cent. That's about taxing a little above-average wages. The average wage is as follows: Czech Republic and Hungary have higher average wage taxes than we do – 44 and 43% – and Slovenia has lower wages at the lowest wages, which is 67% on average, where we have 40 percent, and the Czech Republic and Hungary have 44 and 41. In short, our salaries are taxed on average and on a two-thirds average basis, they are taxed about as much as in the Czech Republic and Hungary or in the environment; and as far as higher wages are concerned, they are taxed less than those taxed in Belgium, Austria or Germany. But it is a fact, and I am now moving on to the second point, that this tax reform will empty the state budget and other public cash registers. The Minister of Finance said earlier that this year's impact or that the impact of this tax reform will be eliminated by the economic growth and successful economic policy of the Government, which this year is supposed to lead, and that it is already known by this growth that we are recording. He forgot to say, of course, that this growth is not organic growth. This growth occurs, for the first time, because last year's economy was closed and we had a recession and, of course, growth is now higher than it was last year because the economy has reopened. Secondly, he forgot to say that you have distributed EUR 2.4 billion of borrowed money between businesses and people, which is a one-time event and will not happen – perhaps the second year can be repeated if the virus persists – but it definitely cannot be repeated in 2023 and 2024 and 2025 and so on. But you will systematically leave the next 800-million-dollar hole in the budget each year. It's 800 million a year, buddy and co-workers, a lot of money. For this money we could build 9 000 public non-profit apartments each year, that is as much as in Slovenia, and we have been talking about this for 20 years. Instead of putting €800 million as a one-time expense in apartments, you will spend it on what is ahead of us, who will be of no benefit to anyone. We could build 10 infectious clinics or about 130 new homes for the elderly. This can be done with 800 million Euros! On the other hand, as you do, we can spend this money on getting those 4000 300 people who are in the highest income class, with a higher general ease to someone for a thousand Euros, a small fee for 50 Euros, and someone with 20,000 Euros strong for 600 Euros per month to enable the directors of the non-taxable Christmas house to pay their salaries, to continue to overheat the real estate market in Slovenia and to be pensioners with the highest pensions again – perhaps a percentage – at a better rate for the good 100 Euros per month. You will tell the young people in the elections why there are no apartments instead, the elderly, why there is no home for pensioners instead, or those waiting in public health, why you have not done anything useful with 800 million euros in public health. Otherwise, this is not the first such reform with us, if we say so, but I agree more with Janis Varufakis, who was in Ljubljana last week, and for Greece, where similar experiments have been carried out for some 15 years, said that the country has not reformed, the country has deformed, and this is the deformation of the country, what you are doing. Something like this has been used by the Janša government since 2004 and 2008, according to Janez Janša's first term as Prime Minister of the Government. At that time, you reduced taxes on income, capital and so forth by about a billion euros, followed by the following. When the crisis struck, of course, the deficit of public finances increased dramatically. In order to reduce this deficit in public finances, you have used austerity measures and in the end the victims of these austerity measures are Slovenian health care, the social state, the fact that for 10 years virtually no public housing has been built and that we have a country in one way or another in half. Now you repeat this exercise again, and we know the result. I think anyone who's watching a little bit of what's going on around us is seeing how things are going to turn around. Europe reacted differently than in the previous crisis. It has decided that, unlike the financial crisis, the covidu countries will help and we have been given the opportunity to alleviate the pressure on public finances by European aid. But since inflation is emerging, central banks around the world are already saying that this policy will have to be changed, interest rates may be raised, money will be reduced in circulation, and it is likely that it is a matter of time before there will be pressure in Europe to reinvigorate fiscal rules. According to the fiscal rule we have written down, debt in Slovenia should not be more than 60 per cent of GDP. You've increased it to 80 percent of GDP and it's rising rapidly. When you turn another 800 million holes into public finances and, if this happens, before I warn you, the future government, regardless of who leads it, will have a major problem patching up budgets. Maybe that's even the purpose of this reform. Perhaps someone speculates that you will lose the election and that it will be easier to overthrow the next government from the opposition bench if you accept such a harmful reform. Finally, before I finish, I'd like to remind you of the words "magic." Mr Shirclja, now Minister of Finance, at the hearing for the Minister of Finance in March 2020. At that time, he asked me why, I think, on a tax issue, he turned 180 degrees to the position he was defending as a Member. And he said: "It is quite simple, fellow moon; when you are in the government, you are in the government when you are in opposition, but the task of the opposition is to overthrow the government." So the purpose of this reform is nothing more than to overthrow the next government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! Of course, when we are doing tax reform, even when we are doing a budget, we have a framework, we set some starting points, we look at economic growth, which is record-breaking, we look at unemployment, which is record-lessly low, we look, of course, at the debt of the country, which is below the average of the euro area and below the average of the European Union, and of course there are many indicators that the government needs to take into account when proposing tax reforms and also budget documents. The Income Act makes it possible, I would like to continue to point out and underline that the employees, i.e. those who work, are gradually having higher net wages. Here, and obviously, politics can and will determine who is for higher net wages and who is against higher net wages, how this will be achieved by the Income Act, in particular in a way that gradually – I stress, gradually, not suddenly – increases the general income relief for 2022 from this year's 3 to 4 thousand 500 Euros, in 2023 to 5 thousand 500 Euros, in 2024 to 6 thousand 500 Euros and in 2025 to 7 thousand 500 Euros. If we look at the poverty risk threshold, which we are likely to talk a lot about in the coming days and months, let me point out that the last data is the poverty risk threshold of EUR 8 000 864 per annum. I have repeatedly wondered publicly here in recent years, but I was not alone in whether it was moral for the state to tax that individual citizen's income, the citizen it needed to survive. Is it therefore moral on the part of the State to tax, in this case income, up to EUR 8 000 860 which the citizen needs to simply survive? The answer, as far as I personally and New Slovenia are concerned, is no, is not moral and we are gradually raising general income relief. Another important information is that Slovenia is interesting. This is Gini's coefficient, which shows that we are a very egalitarian society, that we are equal in terms of revenue. Of course, some want us to be egalitarian in poverty, and they want poverty to be for everyone, not just for a handful. Of course, we oppose this and we want those who are good, who are entrepreneurial, to have more from their work. Therefore, we look forward to lower taxes and higher net wages. Of course, when we consider tax reform, we also have a debt of the country that we are confronted with. As it is said, the debt of the country is below the average of the euro area and is below the average of the European Union. And as far as New Slovenia is concerned, it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that work in this country is worth doing. Of course, we are also aware that income is extremely important, in fact the most important tax revenue of the local community, the municipality. Since the Government proposed the amendment to the Income Act, which we are considering at this meeting, the Government has agreed with the representative organisations of the municipalities – the Community of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia – that the average for 2022 will be EUR 645, which is 16.8 more than this year, and that the average for 2023 will be EUR 647. At the same time, I would like to remind you that this National Assembly, with a large majority, has also supported the Law on the Financial Discharge of municipalities, which will bring about 70 million burdens to all Slovene municipalities. Colleagues and colleagues, the nature of the existence of the State requires the provision of certain goods and services necessary for its operation. The task of the State is to create a framework that ensures security and orderly coexistence, and an environment where an individual has the opportunity to develop his potential, to increase his talents, to realize his abilities, to create a family and so on. Of course, in order to finance the provision of these freedoms, goods and services, the State must establish a mechanism through which citizens contribute a certain part of their income to the common state budget. Thus, the concept of taxes in itself constitutes an intervention in the ownership right of an individual who is justified and justified in the necessity of establishing a country and operating its systems. Since it is a legitimate exercise in the individual's property rights in the determination of taxes, a great deal of rationality and caution is needed in establishing the tax system. In New Slovenia, we claim that an unjustified high level of tax burden is a threat that could constitute an unfair intervention in the individual's property rights. There may be some interesting information about income. In 2018, only 25 per cent of the taxpayers who paid up to the average wage in Slovenia paid their income. If we want success, then we need tax changes, followed by this coalition or this government. At a time when the European Union is starting a green transition, Slovenia needs tax reforms to create an enabling business environment, to become attractive to investors and to maintain highly educated domestics and to attract foreign top staff to help boost the country's productivity. Right here in the field of productivity, we have a big problem in the country, because we are about 19% below the average of the European Union in terms of productivity. Slovenia will only be able to succeed during the current period if it leaves its focus on the average and tax penalties of those who are most charging state treasury and contributing to growth. As a result, there will be a need for a change of mentality in the country. We expect that all Members will be so far away and that the welfare of the country will be more important to us in these developmental decisions than the short-sighted political struggle. Following the share of the employee's contributions, we remain second in the OECD. What I want to say is that this novel of the Income Law also brings work burdens. We have been talking about the urgency of the workload for probably two decades, but no concrete action has been taken by any government to date, and it has even less achieved. Slovenia therefore remains high on the scale after the employee's contribution to labour costs. By the year before last, we had been the first to get ahead of us from 19 percent when Lithuania, which by tax reform had increased its share of employees' contributions to 19.2 percent. While the OECD averages 8.3 per cent, with the employer's contribution rate of 13.9 per cent, we are close to the OECD average of 13.3 per cent. Lower taxes lead to higher employment, higher wages and economic growth. Slovenia's gross domestic product increased by 16.3 per cent in the second quarter of the year, while unemployment was lower at the end of August 2008 and the country recovered financially. That is why we claim that reducing taxes is an investment for the future. Lower taxes on businesses lead to higher wages, more employment and higher growth. Although the transitional period brings tax deficits, the state can see it as an investment that will provide higher wages, more employment and higher spending in the future. What will employees have from the current tax reform of the Income Law? What will be the net effect on the net salary if this law is adopted? The annual impact will be about one salary; one net pays more. For the basis of the calculation of effects, we took last year's average salary, which was EUR 1,000 856. With this salary, the net salary will increase by around two per cent next year due to the proposed tax changes. Together, the annual remuneration will be increased by about 1.6 per cent. With constant gross wages, regress and rewards, the individual’s annual income would increase by around EUR 284. In 2025, when all effects are established, an individual’s annual income will increase by 7 percent, thus showing our calculation. This is about a thousand 260 euros more than it will receive this year, of course at an unaltered cost of work. Assuming Umar's wage and inflation forecasts, the tax burden will fall by about a percentage point next year at the average monthly wage of the current 43.5 per cent. In 2025, when this law is fully enforced, the state will raise about 40% of the labour costs on average. With favourable economic developments, the state budget deficit will be significantly lower due to wage and employment growth, as assessed by the Ministry of Finance in the proposal for material. It is estimated that the changes in income legislation will reduce the revenue flow by around €248 million next year, but that, due to the impact of tax changes, is expected to increase consumption by 0.7 per cent and consequently higher consumption taxes. In 2025, when all the proposed tax changes will be fully applicable, there will be one more salary for the average individual and this is actually a key message, it should be a key message from today's meeting, and then I wonder how it is possible that even some trade unions strongly oppose the rise in net wages. In 2025, we will make it easier from the current 350 euros, as I have already said, to raise to 7,000 500 euros. The Ministry of Finance also reintroduces, which is an important amendment to the Income Act, the introduction of the annual coordination of the income scale and special inflation relief. In fact, this removes one of the measures of the Public Finance Balance Act, which reduced the country's budget deficit in the previous crisis. The income scale has been harmonised up to 2013 each year and the temporary freezing of annual coordination has changed into a permanent VAT increase as well. Due to the abolition of coordination, the tax burden on labour costs on average wages increased by a percentage point between 2013 and 2019. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This and many other reasons why the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats - will support the proposal to conclude that the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, distinguished minister and secretary of state! The main purpose of the new Income Act is, through tax incentives, to stimulate the economy towards greater productivity and to contribute to the maintenance of high economic activity, which we have also managed to maintain at a high level during the pandemic with thoughtful and effective so-called anti-discrimination measures. In the SMC Group, we are particularly pleased to see that in Article 1 of the bill, it is a matter of non-taxation of family pensions that this solution is included in the law on our initiative. One of the other key substantive solutions is an increase in overall relief from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000, a further decrease in the tax rate in the fifth income class to 45 per cent, and a change in the tax treatment of payments for business performance. Members of the SMC believe that these changes are going in the direction of our economy's increased ability to retain and attract the relevant staff, and in the current situation it is mainly hampered by the relatively low available income of the average Slovenian worker. In addition to the greater attractiveness of the working environment, the State must also strive for the high stability and predictability of tax policy. This must also be consistent, inclusive, internationally competitive and focussed on a highly professional and young perspective that has the potential to become the driving force behind the most productive collectives and thus our further economic growth. In addition to the changes relating to labour income, this novelty also provides for a lower rate of income from capital income, decreases from 27 per cent to 25 per cent, a shorter period of capital ownership, after which no income from capital gains is paid, and the introduction of a lower rate of income from rental income. The aim of all these changes is to stimulate the capital market and reduce the real-estate grey market. Of course, we understand the Government's efforts after the tax burden on citizens' incomes, but we are cautious and believe that the introduction of these changes needs to be targeted in a long-term manner, in particular in order to reduce the inflows to the budget at a time of higher deficits resulting from the resolution of the economy during the pandemic. We therefore welcome the government's decision not to introduce these changes immediately, but gradually. In the SMC, we have consistently pointed out the importance of long-term public financial stability, but we are also aware of the time gap between the introduction of real targeted tax measures and their positive public financial effects. As has already been said, lowering taxes is in fact an investment in the future that will allow higher wages, more employment, higher levels of consumption, higher economic growth, which will result in a return to tax revenues or a longer period of time exceeding the pre-deployment level. The latter was also confirmed by a recent study by the German Institute of Economic Research. Moreover, according to the Minister's words today, even short-term projections due to our medium-term economic growth promise financial neutrality for the budget in the short term. Tax burdens therefore have a positive impact on tax flows due to increased economic activity and productivity, but of course provided that tax policy is consistent over the longer term in pursuing objectives and not if the tax environment is constantly changing. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that our tax legislation needs such incentives and updates as will follow global trends and respond to the needs of our economy. Therefore, Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of this law as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Marko Bandelli, who will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! The new income law is a member of the so-called government tax troika. It already promises higher salaries and lower taxes in the electoral year 2022, at a time when the budget treasury is more impressed than ever in history. This is also why, for the first time in history, higher wages and lower taxes are opposed even by unions and people. The proposed changes relieve incomes by gradually increasing the overall relief. This would increase from the current EUR 3 000 500 to 4 000 500 in the following year, and then gradually rise every year, so that in 2025 it would amount to EUR 7 000 500. The tax rate in the last, fifth income class would fall from 50 per cent to 45 per cent, so that the best paid will receive higher net wages. The possibility of a higher non-taxable payment of the Business Performance Award up to the average monthly salary of the worker, including remuneration, is envisaged, if this is more favourable for the debtor. The government is also proposing a reduction in income from capital income from the current 27.5 per cent to 25 and from income from renting assets from 27.5 to 15. Newly, the debtors would have the opportunity to include income from capital and to rent assets into the annual tax base. The amendments also provide for senior reliefs, which would mean a reduction of the tax base of thousands of €500 for over 70 years. The proposal provides for the exemption of income for payments from school funds for preschool children, students, students and students. At the same time, the reduction in the value of the rating for a passenger electric vehicle and for private purposes is zero. The Government shall reintroduce the mandatory annual coordination of incentives and annual tax bases by increasing the cost of living, if positive. All of this sounds very nice, of course. All of us sitting in Parliament want to give people more. It is true that with the increase in people’s relief, there would be more money left, and it is true that we are all looking for it. But from this goal, unfortunately, the very doing of this government under the leadership of the SDS distances us. The adoption of this law will only further deepen the public debt that is already owed almost €22,000 by each Slovenian for the actions of this government. Contrary to the intervention measures, the proposed tax changes will result in a permanent shortfall in budgetary resources. The drop will be higher every year and close to a billion euros a year at the end of the year in 2025. The government of Janez Janša leaves behind budgetary devastation every time. Let me remind you of the tax reform of his first government, a heavy billion euros. This is contrary to the promise of greater competitiveness and consumption as the main reason for the rapid growth of indebtedness. Such tax reforms followed austerity measures, we cut wages, pensions and could still be listed. Today, Slovenia is very close to the 2008 story. As a result of the epidemic crisis, last year the budget manoeuvring amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, a net public debt of up to EUR 5.8 billion, and more than 1 billion had to be provided from the budget to cover the pension fund deficit. Today the numbers are even higher, and the government continues and deepens the financial hole. At the same time, it offers us hazy budget documents and dares without a budget rebalance to raise the budget expenditure for this year for an additional billion and a half. We are therefore rightly asking today whether we will have sufficient resources to cover the current budget, wages, pensions, health and social obligations. We won't support the SAB marriage. It poses an excessive risk to the public financial sustainability of the whole sector of the country. At the same time, it represents a completely inappropriate fiscal response to the current economic crisis. Due to the poor state of public finances, the Government has been repeatedly discouraged from taking measures that will have far-reaching financial implications after the crisis which has not yet received its epilogue. The SAB also strives to ensure that people in our country have higher salaries and lower taxes, but we maintain a responsible attitude towards public finances, whose sustainability is essential if we are to maintain prosperity, public health, public education and a number of social rights. At a time when the state of public finances is worse than ever in the history of Slovenia alone, the budget would not have passed on additional revenue losses. Because we want to do our country good, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The regulation of labour-capital relations is the core area of each development vision. In Slovenia, on the agenda is the processing of tax legislation which concerns each of the two economic categories in parallel in both fields. The solutions to open cases are not simple, as is evident in our case today. When discussing and deciding on tax burden reduction, we need to take into account the fundamental fact of our time, this is a corporate system, a system of companies based on unlimited self-sufficiency. This must not remain unnoticed and cannot be overlooked. A discerning observer of modern economic phenomena cannot escape reality. The power of companies is in management, bureaucracy, which controls its tasks and wages itself; wages that are mostly on the verge of theft. Today, these payers are also expected to be finely reduced by tax burdens on their mammoth wages. The inevitable component of our economic paradigm is daily listening to lessons about competitiveness. Relatively compared to our main trading partners, Slovenian labour costs and public service costs for the employee are already highly competitive and we are lagging behind in productivity on account of the inefficiencies of management, owners and economic elites. However, solutions are always sought only at the cost of work and at the cost of the country. So is it really the goal of increasing competitiveness or is it all based on the belief that the only important processes in society are the economic processes managed by capital and that they are the source of the power of politicians only from the extent to which they raise capital? In fact, the market economy in modern societies is only a relatively limited part of all their businesses, probably less than half of Slovenia, in more developed societies even less. Everything else that we spend individually or as a community must be taken care of by other institutions that are under the auspices of civil society or politics. The income, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important tax source for the financing of municipalities, and this is about today's changes and amendments to the law, which is essential. The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are an essential financial and material component of local self-government. The financing of local self-government in Slovenia is governed by the Law on the financing of municipalities, which primarily governs the financing of basic tasks under municipal jurisdiction, and also lays down rules on the borrowing and co-financing of investments carried out by municipalities. The financing of municipalities is based on the principles of local self-government, in particular on the principle of proportionality of sources of funding with the tasks of municipalities and on the principle of the autonomy of municipalities in the financing of municipal tasks. In fact, the law does not provide the content of the principle of proportionality of funding sources with tasks, but sets out a number of instruments to achieve the objectives of that principle. One of the most important is the appropriate spending institute, which is identified for each financial year as an appropriate amount of funding for the financing by law of certain tasks. The appropriate amount of funds is based on the formula when the average per capita through the weighting mechanism allocates to individual municipalities according to their number of inhabitants and other criteria based on geographical and demographic differences between Slovene municipalities. The appropriate consumption of the municipality is based on actual needs, and the appropriate consumption mechanism is linked to the average, which, together with certain criteria or factors for the diversity of municipalities, forms an equation for the appropriate consumption and the average per capita in the country has been established to provide funding by law for certain tasks of the municipality. The Community Financing Act sets out a share of the income which represents a decommissioned tax resource to finance appropriate spending. Since 2009, the municipalities have been allocated income or income percentages of 54 per cent, representing 54 per cent of the allocated income. The individual congregation accounts for 70 percent of the allocated share of the income, while 30 percent of the income is the basis for solidarity between municipalities with a weaker tax structure. As long as the municipality is unable to provide a calculated amount of eligible expenditure with its own and withdrawn resources, the Law on the Financing of the Communities provides for the inclusion of a financial settlement mechanism by which the country provides the missing funds from the integrated budget. This ensures the implementation of the first principle of local self-government, which discusses the proportionality of sources of funding with powers and tasks and the resulting costs. Another important principle, the principle of the autonomy of municipalities, can only be realized if the municipalities derive most of their revenues from their own resources and are as low as possible dependent on any aid or grant of an integrated budget. As a rule, the Community funding system should allow for as high a level of self-sufficiency as possible, which means that they would not need to use the financial compensation mechanism. As can be seen from the material submitted by the applicant, it is the financial compensation of the model by which it intends to compensate for the lost revenue from the reduction in income. The main objective of autonomous local self-government is to achieve greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to deliver more effectively local public goods than the central government would provide them. It is essential, however, that municipalities are financially autonomous and decide independently on the acquisition and use of financial resources for their operations. This means that they must have sufficient resources of their own in order to cover the costs of the exercise of their legal powers and the possibility of deciding on their use. Madam Members, when setting the average, the current Slovenian government, in cooperation with the representative associations of local self-government, has done an affirmative job. It can't be denied or overlooked. The results of this work are that the funding of municipalities in Slovenia is currently as high as we have never had before. It is therefore quite unusual that the Government, with the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act, intends to reduce the basic revenue source to finance the future needed expenditure of local self-government. The main question to be asked is whether the area of such large tax corrections is negatively exhausted or not. Members of the Desus Group estimate that such large losses of tax revenue are inadequate in view of the current public financial situation, so we will vote against their adoption. We will therefore vote against the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one wanted a word, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think I have some things to explain in law. If I put a few things in the box that the law is talking about. The law refers to the exemption of income from school funds. It is said that this law abolishes the taxation of school funds on the basis of which students of primary school receive different benefits, particularly those in a socially disadvantaged situation. There'll be no more receipts here. I think it's fair that she's gone. Secondly, the law introduces the exemption of income from the income of children on the basis of a family pension. I think it's a social correction that's just. Whoever receives the family pension and the children who benefit from the pension should not pay the income by means of this bill. If the law is not adopted, these children and school funds will continue to pay income. Thirdly, for all citizens and citizens, overall relief is increasing for all residents. General relief means a higher net income, in other words, a higher net salary. Until now, incomes that actually amount to all the professional income criteria that are essential for life to survive are also taxed. This is determined by the professional institutions involved. If this law is not adopted, then all these people will have more taxed wages and thus lower wages and lower incomes. In addition, a so-called senior relief is being introduced. Why is this amount set at EUR 1,000 500? Because these lower pensions are not taxed at all before. Thus, they are now subject to non-taxation. In addition, the rate of income from capital income decreases from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent, indicating the direction of the development of tax rates in Slovenia. In addition, revenue from the rental of assets, a reduction in the tax rate to 15 % is being alleviated, which in particular simplifies such accounting and makes it easier to account for administratively. Here we think that the flow of money will increase, especially because we now have a tax based on the recognition of costs and so on, a rather complex system. Here we think that this system will remain, but only for those who want it. Here, of course, we mean simplification. In addition, for espas, we propose to harmonise all concessions relating to the deficit professions, i.e. for independent entrepreneurs who will have additional relief if they employ workers who carry out the so-called deficit professions. They will have a greater opportunity to benefit from electric cars in line with the development of green policy in Europe. And, of course, we will also give reliefs for digital services or digital activities. That's what people are about. I've heard here, among other things, that these are harmful measures. This is what the representative of the SD said was that only a small group of people would benefit from, in order to create income inequality additionally, as much as income inequality is caused by income itself, because it has different rates. [[…]] However, Slovenia is applied according to the index among the most income identical. I can say that now. Here are the solutions for humans. Today, of course, I heard about the renaissance here, it was said, reganomics – a bigger offer and so on. Of course, how the entire European Commission, the IMF, all international institutions, China, the US National Bank, FET and so on have different policies in this regard. Now, whether they have it or not, I don't really know. Here are the solutions for the people I told you would have more revenue. I have also heard that the state treasury is more impressed than ever in history. That's not true. That's just not true! What the SAB representative said, that's not true. She was already more impressed — at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. That we were more in debt and so on, and so on, that's when we got more. That we have a budget hole and that public finances are worse than ever in history. That's not true. That's what the data proves. This is proved by the data on economic growth, this is proved by the unemployment data, this is proved by the export data, this is proved by the value added data, this is proved by a number of international organisations from the IMF to the European Commission, to those who actually assess us and give us estimates of what they give us that we have favourable interest rates. That way, of course, I have to strongly deny here what is not. Secondly, what I would like to say is that European fiscal policy has also changed. Today, European fiscal policy no longer respects the so-called fiscal rules due to the cod crisis. She won't take them into account in 2022. Here, too, the European monetary policy is different and it is predicted that this will remain the policy of the European Central Bank at least in the first quarter of 2022. The question of monetary policy remains open. However, while people want to increase their incomes, we can hear about macroeconomic indicators from China to America through Europe and so on, and Reagan's economy along with it. But the point is that people's net incomes will increase. Here I would like to say that this tax legislation actually foresees this also because, as I have already said, the taxation of work in Slovenia is above average. I am talking about taxation of work as a whole; it is said, with the contributions of employers, employees, income – in short, in full. Here's some kind of contribution to do that. And once again, the reason for increasing the overall relief is because I think it is immoral to tax the income that is essential for people’s lives — from a moral and ethical point of view. And once again, if we are talking about fiscal rules and talking about 2022, then we also need to look at the Fiscal Rule Act, which stipulates that once fiscal rules are reintroduced, the Government will have to submit to the Fiscal Council a medium-term framework to comply with fiscal rules. The medium-term framework is in years. Here I want to make it very clear that after 2022 or 2023 someone will come and say, you know what, next month must be your public debt, say, 60 percent. No, it won't! It will not, because the law also establishes a medium-term framework for adaptation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt. The whole system threw us out, as we can see, we have black screens. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	I hope it's not because of me, because that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	[[Laugh]] No, not because of you. But so you don't run out of time, I suggest you take a ten-minute break and get the technique fixed. We'll continue the meeting at 11.05. Thanks for understanding. (The sitting was suspended at 10.54 p.m. and resumed at 12. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I'm going to continue with the subject around where I ended up. But, of course, I have to make the framework I'm talking about. And here again, I would like to say that this law, the amendment of the Income Act, introduces the exemption of income for income from school funds. School funds operating within primary schools will, of course, be forgiven, including many parents of children, for school supplies, for school books and so on. Even the incomes of family pension children, I am talking about a family pension, will be exempt from this tax, which means more money for many children. In addition, there will be pensioners, the more than a thousand 500 Euros held. [[…]] Why a thousand 500 euros? Because the lower ones are not taxed anyway, they will have a special relief. On the other hand, once again, through independent entrepreneurs a green transition is possible, electric cars are allowed to be untaxed or not paid for by their ratings. Tax rates on properties or on capital gains resulting from 20 years are being reduced. If someone has capital, he's forgiven, now this period will be 15 years. On the other hand, entrepreneurs will have additional incentives to hire deficit professions or persons with low-cost occupations. There will certainly be a number of administrative reliefs here. Here again, I would like to say that this is the case, regardless of what we are talking about today and you have been talking about economic policy from China to the United States, from the European Commission to the IMF and so on; but once again, the IMF supports Slovenia's fiscal policy. More than 6 percent of economic growth was forecast to rise with a new forecast. Previously, it was just over 3% and the IMF had no comments on fiscal policy, and the IMF actually said that the rejection was so high because the measures were also adopted that were appropriate. Measures to keep jobs in the wake of the epidemic and to keep businesses. This is the purpose of this law; it is said that it is intended to increase salaries, incomes for residents or citizens and citizens and, of course, to provide the municipalities with adequate funds. True, the work of income is financed by the congregations, and we have increased the average — for the first time in history — to that extent. They used to be much smaller than that. We have increased what actually belongs to the extent that the congregations have desired or are pleased with. Once again, all legislation is based on the provision of financial compensation for any manoeuvring money to the municipalities, the budget or the state. Which, in other words, means that what Mr. Polnar also said would result in less — that is not true! The State will ensure financial compensation. And it always is and always will be. So with this point of view of course, I will say that I'm talking about arguments; I'm talking about this, even those arguments that actually don't hold. Of course, it has been said here that the budget hole is deepening by making the state of public finances worse than ever in history. That's not true. It was worse in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, certainly. And it was much worse back then. Today, the state of macroeconomic indicators is certainly worse than it was before the epidemic, but the epidemic demanded its tax. Firstly, to preserve jobs, to preserve businesses, and what is beyond that, to make as many people well as possible and to make them as few deaths as possible. So here's the cost that's been incurred mainly because of the epidemic is justified. The life and health of the people here has no price, and that's what this government has actually done. And it is not true that the situation in the country is such that, of course, it will be even worse in the coming years and so on. The budget documents prove this, analyses prove this, by reducing the deficit in the country, in all sectors of the country or in the country sector, by reducing this deficit by more than 5 percentage points in two years and by 20203 by 3.3% of GDP and in 2024 without, I will say, some additional fiscal effort below 3% of GDP, which is the Maastricht criterion. And it is not true that when the withdrawal clause or the withdrawal clause are again in force today, there is no fiscal rule that the Maastricht criteria will now have to be met overnight. The Fiscal Rule Act provides for a medium-term period; the medium-term period to be defined by the Government and sent to the Fiscal Council and agreed with it on how long public finances will be adjusted. Don't scare people on base issues, claims, opinions, anything! The legislation provides for this to be adopted by this national assembly. The Fiscal Rule Act refers to the medium-term adjustment period. The medium-term period is, of course, only a question of how many years this is. We're talking about years. Some talk about five years, some even ten years, and this will be discussed by the European Commission and discussed by the Council of Europe. And he hasn't started yet. In other words, European policy on these issues has also changed. The policy of other international organisations has also changed on these issues. No one will ask Slovenia to be in debt in 2024, I don't know, 20 percent of GDP. Nobody. So from this point of view, of course, all these fears that are listed here and so on, I think, more or less irrelevant, as well as the fact that, of course, with the end of 2022 anything will happen and the creation of fears, of course, even in the media about what will happen after 2022, 2023 and the next government and so on. Look, these are fears right now without foundation. This does not mean, of course, that when planning financial frameworks, we must be careful that, of course, we also have to be restrictive in certain respects, and this is also indicated by the expenditure of the state budget for 2023, which is decreasing in relation to 2022, and then it is said, and this is now unrealistic. [[…]] It's not unrealistic. In this regard, of course, the whole framework needs to be looked at. We certainly require caution in planning and take into account caution and, of course, in this context, it is necessary to define both fiscal and monetary policy, which is already defined in Europe by the fact that the derogation clause applies also in 2022. With regard to the financial framework of this law. I mentioned it in the introduction. 247 million minus is defined in this law, this law was prepared early this year, at the beginning of 2021, that is static data. Static information on what would have happened on the basis of what would have happened if it had been true at that time. It has been 9 months since those times, and since then, according to the last nine months, financial revenues have increased by 214 million according to the planned period, according to planned nine months ago. And all the revenue went up by almost 400 million in the first nine months, 4 million less than 400 million in the first nine months. This is said to be greater than nearly 400 million since then. In other words, the financial outage of this law is already covered by higher income from income and other taxes after nine months when the law has not entered into force at all. In other words, there will be no collapse of public finances or anything like that mentioned here and so on. It is true, however, that if the law is not adopted, people will not have higher wages, higher incomes and children will still be taxed under the school funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, colleagues and fellow Members! The main objective of the tax changes, followed by the Government and personally supported by the Government, is to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and as a basic measure in this proposed law is to relieve the income of all employees and not only the lowest incomes, as has now been the case. An important signal in the fight against the non-competitive taxation of the most skilled employees and thus the highest productivity economy is the reduction of the so-called crisis and temporary rate of income from 50 per cent to 45 per cent, which brings relatively little to the budget. In order to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, it is essential to ensure that the tax conditions for the work of highly qualified persons are improved. Their tax burden needs to be a little closer to taxation in competing countries. In Novi Slovenija we are committed to improving the tax situation of all employees, and in particular to reducing the steep progressive taxation reflected in the high costs of the employer and in the low share of net wages. We therefore want to reduce the costs of employers and increase the net wages of all employees. The percentage of duties and contributions requested by the State is increasing dramatically by increasing revenues. Such tax arrangements certainly make it difficult to employ highly qualified individuals, resulting in obstacles to Slovenia's economic development and the relocation of many young Slovenians abroad. Of course, employees want higher incomes, but the tax regime, which brings so much tax burden on the highest wages, directly encourages employers to pay lower wages. This is also one of the reasons why Slovenia is lagging behind about 20% in terms of productivity for the European Union average. It should also be added that, in terms of competitiveness, there is an even greater problem than income with a high level of contributions and their indemnity at a level; let us not forget that contributions by nature are tax. We are in New Slovenia, and we will make sure that citizens are adequately paid for their work in the future. We want to ensure higher wages, and at this very point it shows how some of them can be two-faced when they talk about raising wages only to the most powerful. Of course it doesn't. The proposal to increase general income relief goes in the direction of raising wages for all employees. We will ensure higher net wages for all citizens in a way that the country gives up its income. Why do we find it most important that wages rise with lower income? Since this does not endanger both pension and health allowance, we do not increase gross wages at the same time as a reduced income and thus impose additional burden on the economies. With the solutions proposed in this law, we are also solving a number of migrant workers' problems. Today, the level of indebtedness in the last period has often been exposed. Let me stress that, with the laws adopted by the CAP last year, we have sought to protect the health and life of Slovenes and Slovenians in the first place, and we have also tried many measures to ensure the employment and normal functioning of the economy for workers. That these measures were appropriate shows exactly this year, when we are following the highest economic growth, as well as the lowest unemployment in the last period. It seems fair to us that if we have such economic growth that people are also adequately paid for their work. Let me stress once again that this salary solution in our country would raise precisely all employees, leaving more people in their pockets, and consequently spending will increase. Together, we must aim to have as many jobs as possible with high added value in Slovenia as possible, not jobs with minimum wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Get ready for Marko Bandelli and Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! For starters, I'd like to re-emphasize a piece from our SMC point of view. Thus, tax cuts are actually an investment for the future that will allow higher wages, more employment and higher levels of consumption and higher economic growth. As a result, tax revenues return over time and exceed recovery levels over a longer period. So it's a step that will actually show up in the future that it's right. In my own debate, I will focus only on a few changes, and especially on one that I have personally worked very hard to find in this law. Last year, at such a time or month of November, I ordered a comparative examination, a research assignment, in our research department, because I wanted to explore something for which more parents who are single, which means that their partner died and their children received a family pension and each year since the start of the IT calculations to send me home automatically to the addresses, which is why they have been paying income since then. For years, the Ombudsman has also pointed to this issue, and for years we have also taken their initiatives to change it, but the Ministry of Finance in previous years somehow did not have a hearing about it. In 2016, too, there was an extensive debate on this subject in the State Council that these children who lost one of the parents no longer needed to be helped and that it was not appropriate to pay the income. In the last few years, there was somehow no hearing for it. Therefore, even after the research task was done and when I found sufficient support in the coalition, I drafted a law, brought it into line with the Ombudsman and wanted to invest it, but then, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, who then promised me that this article, including this topic, would be included in this law, and then also because of some longer process of blocking other laws, I did not specifically introduce this law, but this topic is now regulated by this law as the first article. That is why I particularly wish that the entire law would now be able to pass through the legislative path. So, why do all these children or the vast majority of the children who receive a family pension pay their income? Because, normally, another parent, who, of course, or almost entirely cared for him, enrolled him as a dependent family member. Therefore, these children could not apply general tax relief and almost all income was paid. So, I am really glad that this subject is now regulated and I really hope that this law will also bring us through the legislative process. Furthermore, I agree that in Slovenia, renting, i.e. renting of property, is really too high. I know cases where some owners, especially those who have one apartment or who have bought it very hard to prefer flats to rent them because they simply have to pay the country too much, i.e. one quarter, 25 percent of their income. On the other hand, it is precisely because of these high taxes that very many apartments are blacked out, so that people do not have registered tenants. Or another thing happens that tenants pay a lot more than they actually do; something on hand, something real. My opinion is that once this percentage of taxation is somehow reduced, this situation will also improve. A long year ago, I think before 2012 or 2013, there was a 20 percent tax, and then it went up to 25. Years ago, there was also the possibility that what the law now allows for income from renting – especially for those with lower incomes, to be paid, and to be able to decide that these incomes from rents would then be charged in the annual taxation along with other incomes. This really goes against those who, as we said, have a low pension, and what kind of apartment do they give up? I also welcome these changes. With regard to workload, because it is a key objective, it is necessary to relieve the payload. There was a talk today about this Gini coefficient. And it is true that, in the meantime, I also checked and Googled again, Slovenia, by income equality, belongs to the world summit itself. Gini's coefficient, our coefficient is extremely low, which means that it's a great income equality. We have also discussed this several times and discussed this on the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, where I am also a member. I have also just read one article, including Dr. Damian, whom some of you wanted to be Prime Minister, warned last year, even though certain loads have already been made, that wages are still too heavy and therefore they need to be unloaded. I would also say that the law is now in first reading, so I really hope that we will give him the opportunity to move forward with the legislative path. I believe that in the meantime there are still possible changes, what amendments, what compromises. I really want to find them, especially because of all these family pension recipients, especially the children. At the time, in my proposal for a marriage, I stood specifically for children, but now all the recipients of family pensions are essentially included in the law. So, either that mother or the father, if he stays alone with the children, he also has a family pension, it is said, that all family pension recipients will be exempt from income payments under this law. The same as previously said for school funds. That's how I think this marriage really brings a lot of good. However, if there is anything like this, I believe that it can still be changed through the legislative process, and I hope that we will find consensus that the law will also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you, President. Here, if someone said that everything that's written in this marriage is wrong, you could say that it's not normal, because I think we're all staring and we all want to give people more to stay in our pocket. That's the essence of this marriage. By raising these incentives for people to stay, above all, money. But here's a big shot. Right now, especially. My friend Horvath, who isn't here, I'm sorry he isn't, but I'm talking about his position, which he read very well, because he also argued a lot of things, but he said three things. Record economic growth – here we should pay little attention to the record of economic growth, which we must always compare over time. Recordly low unemployment — we also have to ask ourselves here how many are still on hold or on forced hold. These numbers are not clear and accurate many times, either. However, he said a record assignment and did not say that it was a record assignment in our country, he said comparable and average according to the EU average. Now, what kind of comfort is this? What comfort is it that we're better than average? We were very good, we were extremely good by 2019. Our government, at the time, had a surplus of 250 million. Now I've come up with half a billion dollars a month of deficits. Approximately. I didn't miss much. I'm talking to you now as an entrepreneur, as an economist, but also as an economist, I don't believe this income law, so I'm going to say. I don't believe it. It's an illusion and an illusion. This tax reform will burden the state treasury for 200 million a year by 2025. That's 800 million. Where are we gonna make up for this deficit? Because even after 2025, these funds will have to be made available regularly in the budget. That's a very simple thing to say. We can say we don't pay taxes and go campaigning, and we say we'll never pay taxes again. We know this is Utopia, it's nonsense. And for lowering, I think it's also right, because that's what people are waiting for us to lower something. We know the wages are taxed, too taxed. On the other hand, I enjoyed talking about the congregations. I also agree that there will be no money left. And what are we gonna do? Are we going to raise averages? What are we gonna do? In fact, what are we gonna do? Because in fact, the congregations will receive less money. It is necessary to speak honestly, it is necessary to speak clearly. My proposal here was why we're not acting. You know, here we'll always have that problem, I'm not talking coalition-opposition, because then, because we're going to change roles, it's always going to be the same problem. One suggests that we do not approve of this or accept it because it has been proposed by another. Here you have to look human, here you have to look at the real state, what you can and can't do. Now this raise of general relief. I think that's very clever, but at the time there was a proposal of 3,000, 500 to 4 thousand, 500 – we mined. Now we go gradually every year to 7,000 500. All right and fine, if that were sustainable, but I'm afraid it won't be sustainable. The hole is getting bigger. Where are we gonna get the money? Because if we give it to someone else, we have to take it. And that's math, because we can't be in debt every year for one billion — where will this go? These flyers, that we will increase spending by turning money around and that VAT will come in and everything – this has already proved to be not how it works. A lot of theories, but in practice it's different. As an entrepreneur, I say: I spend as much as I can create. It's just this math. There can't be anyone else. We are always talking about these systemic solutions and I don't know what and we're going into a complicated marriage, because it's not bad – I repeat, if there were different times and different situations, this law would probably be fine. I've put forward a proposal to slowly lift with relief. I also absolutely agree with the rents, and my colleagues there didn't all agree what it is. They're too expensive for me. 17.5 percent, that's too expensive, that's why only the black market's here, and we have to say it honestly. Pre-priced rentals are also in the economy: offices, halls, production facilities and not talking in the private sector, where no real estate is given because the tax is too high. I also agree here, but the whole bunch, the whole package that's here, is, in my opinion, unrestrained right now, and there's too much of it. Now you're always looking at the economy, not the other things. I was on the State Council when I presented the SAB law after my idea by reducing the hospital's absence from 30 to 20 days, which was a heavy burden on the adder. The government is against it. The government is against it because it's not systemicly resolved. We'll never save it if it goes systemic, because we know what that means. The system solution means 10 years – we no longer touch on this issue because it makes no sense. And the Council of State approved the proposal because he saw that it was time to start solving problems with one corner. If you had prepared this law here in a different way, started with one place and then slowly went to different places, I think this thing would have been welcome here, and at this point it is almost unacceptable to such a large extent. That's mine. I think that here you have prepared this law anyway in the series, thinking that it will not go through, then you will point your finger at the second term: we passed the law, we proposed the law, but you mined it, you didn't want it to go forward. Here the next government will prepare to eat all these things here, because otherwise it won't work. All this investment, all that's supposed to happen, because I don't know where we're getting the money from. All these things are not strategies for the economic recovery of our country. They're just ladies here; I'll give it to you. Where am I gonna get it? Where am I gonna get it? That's my question. How many times have I asked? I don't see any things coming back to those normal business numbers of the revenue side, just like before when you took over the government. That's a very simple thing to say. For this reason, I cannot do anything but agree with this law; in such a form, in such a dimension, as it appears. Our party will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Polnar, they are prepared by Susana Beautiful Šimenka, Igor Peček, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In discussing the amendments and additions to the Income Act, I assess that the underlying problem is a baseline assumption that we do not agree on. The applicant says that income from income in the whole structure of the tax revenues of the state budget is already high enough to reduce them. If we assume or take the year 2019 as a starting point when there was no crisis in the country, and we take that as a starting point, then we can find that the Slovenian State was not able to finance even basic health, social, education, security and so on with all its revenues. The situation now seems to have matured to the point where income can be reduced. For 2021, the plan for the implementation of the income billion and EUR 288 million is realised by €1 billion and €207 million by 23 October, which is slightly less than 94%, which is very promising, there can be no doubt about that. The state of public finances is currently so, ladies and gentlemen. After the final accounts in 2020, a budget deficit of €3 billion and €486 million was created. The budget deficit of €2 billion and €838 million is recorded on 23 October this year. We are now in the period of adoption of budgets, changes for 2022 and budgets for 2023. For 2022, €2 billion and €471 million are planned for the deficit and €223 billion and €518 million for the deficit. So that there is no misunderstanding, I find myself disgusted by the innkeeper's demagogy that I'm listening to here about the deficit and the debt. This is because the budget deficit in this case has a clearly defined function and this function is counter-crisis. It is therefore always necessary to emphasise in such a form what this deficit was intended for. EUR 4 billion and EUR 704 million have been invested in measures to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 epidemic, and I did not invent it myself, said the Fiscal Council, that institution that was today placed in the sky and its writings or perceptions as a biblical dogma; two years ago, I was there when those same people were in position and the fiscal world would have preferred to end. So, ladies and gentlemen. The importance of income is also discussed through the overall structure of the tax revenues of the State budget. As mentioned, for illustration only: in 2023, income of billions and EUR 784 million is foreseen, that is, for more than 300 million, as foreseen by the total revenue received from the European Union budget. So what the state is now relying on as a starting point for an exit from the crisis. Therefore, in 2023, if it is realised as planned, it will exceed all the funds received from the European Union, and that is its key importance. Ladies and gentlemen, in its sense, income is the second or third most important tax type for the state budget, depending on the financial year, whether the expenditure is second or second. From 2010 to 2020, the highest revenue recovery was made in 2019, according to the last year before the crisis, €2 billion and €591 million. This is important to know that we know what frameworks we are discussing when we sum up all the downsides or any future budget deficits or expenditure deficits that will come out of a potentially adopted law. The division between the state and municipal budgets was then 54 to 46 in favour of the state budget. In 2020, things changed slightly, with €2 billion 487 million in revenue, and 47% of the country and 53% of the municipality, which is in line with the Law on Community Financing. So, before the crisis, revenue in the record year was slightly less than €2 billion 600 million. The proposer, when substantiating his actions in particular in general relief, plans to see EUR 3 billion in income in 2023. It is said that in the four financial years 2020,2021, 2022 and 2023 the increase by almost 22%. As real as that is, it's about to be seen. Of course, its structure is also important for income. And here things are clear – income from employment income, income from capital income and income from activities are the most important sources of income. But far away, far from all, the most important income is income from employment, 85 to 90 percent of total income from income in each year. And it is in this part that the most drastic thing is being done, because the general relief is being raised. What is most important in all things, I think, is the source — what? So the most important source is income. There can be no doubt about that. At the beginning of this year, a study commissioned by the Ministry of Public Administration on the fiscal capacity of Slovenian municipalities was made at one of the Faculty of Ljubljana University. From that research, very thorough, long-term, the most significant information on income today is the proportion of the current revenue of municipal budgets in the time shift or time series from 2007 to 2018. More than 60 per cent of municipal budgets from tax and non-tax revenues each year have been drawn from income. This is said to be the most important source of funding or community activity. Therefore, with all the enthusiasm that we are talking about reducing the tax burden on employees, at least a few more things should be said. What is it that municipalities with income finance, what is it that the congregation cannot do without? First thing, investment in preschool care, which is the original jurisdiction of local self-government. Second, the material conditions for the implementation of basic education, including municipal competence. Third important issue, environmental protection, in particular waste water separation and treatment; simply stated cleaning appliances and all devices and technical means for connection to these cleaning plants. Fourth and most important thing, drinking water supply; this is the original municipal jurisdiction. In the summer, I laughed sour when I listened to my cousins and my cousins defend their drinking water. Neither of them has any idea that drinking water is under exclusive jurisdiction of municipalities and that all sources of drinking water in Slovenia are owned by the municipality. And that all distribution infrastructure for drinking water is owned by municipal companies. And that's all funded by income. Indeed, certain investment maintenance on the network, labour costs, material costs, service costs are financed from water and network. However, the essentials concerning investments in resources and the construction of the network are financed by income. One last thing, very important in this area, is voluntary fire. Voluntary firefighting is mainly financed from municipal budgets, in particular the personal and technical equipment of operational firefighting units. And all of this is threatened if income is reduced. The State offers an excellent alternative, financial compensation, meaning in other words that financial autonomy is taking place in the municipalities and this is what makes it impossible for me to support this law. However, something else, as mentioned earlier, is expected to increase by 22% by 2023 compared to 2019. I think it's unrealistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is "Suzana" Beautiful Chimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you so much for the word. And I have to say that when the Income Act came to the National Assembly in May, I said to myself, finally, but finally, one law that brings concrete financial burdens, one tax reform – if I use the word reform; one likes it, the other don't – and I was really looking forward to it, and I am glad that the government has finally drawn up such a law. After a long time. Why? Because it means helping the economy and, on the other hand, helping the population. Helping the economy, in particular, because there will actually be a payload, which will, of course, mean that many companies will be easier to obtain the right co-workers. Today, we are facing a situation where we still have a certain number of unemployed people, but on the other hand, companies are mass-aware of the problem that they do not actually get co-workers, and still, on the other hand, significantly too young, especially highly educated, to drive our development, is going abroad. Why? The key reason is that they get substantially higher wages there. Assistance to the population – a million 550 thousand debtors, taxpayers, will be burdened, which means that they will get higher wages and that money, which they will get more, I believe they will spend it, of course. It goes into consumption and the country gets back, but through another tax, money into the budget. For years we have been warned by many institutions that the taxation of wages in Slovenia is too high. We are significantly above the average of the OECD countries. The tax margin in Slovenia is 43.6 per cent, and in the OECD countries this is 36 per cent. What we must not ignore is the trap of the unemployed in Slovenia. What's that? This is essentially the difference in the net income of a person when it goes from unemployment to an unemployed person. For us, at 60 per cent of the average wage, this is 80 per cent, while for example, on average, the EU countries are 70 per cent. This means, of course, that net income increases by less than 20% at the time of employment. What does that say? And of course, that's why we still have a certain number of unemployed people, people just don't deserve to work, and on the other hand, the gray economy is increasing. We're addressing all of this with this law. Therefore, I think it is of the utmost importance that we accept it. Changes in the area of the tax burden on wages are, in my opinion, really necessary. The key that has already been mentioned many times today is, of course, an increase in overall relief from €3 000 500 to €7 000 500. Of course, with the transition periods, there until 2025. So what Mr Bandelli said earlier is that we want everything at once – we don't want it. Amendments shall be introduced gradually, in particular the key one, to raise general relief. And what does that mean? This, of course, means higher net wages and this higher net pays everyone. The one on the minimum wage will receive €7 000 500 per month at the current amount of €53 per year, amounting to €640. Those with an average Slovenian salary will receive more monthly net according to the current Slovenian average salary of €90. At the annual level, that means a thousand euros. It is very difficult to understand that anyone in this national council can oppose this, especially difficult to understand, I do not know, by the SD, who are always fighting for higher wages, I find this extremely difficult to understand by certain unions, who are supposed to be higher wages for workers and now oppose such a change. It's really hard to understand. But you will come up with that argument: yes, but the one who has a higher salary will get even more. Yeah, that's true, but one who has a higher gross salary also pays significantly more for income. If you have looked at the law, on page 6 is one table for income data for 2018. When we look here, we see that around 6.5 percent of all the debtors, we're talking about income classes 3, 4, and 5, paid a little over 934 million euros in income this year, while everyone else, the first and second income classes, this is 93.5 percent, and they paid 1.18 billion euros. So something a little bit more. This is the difference in Slovenia and so the slightly higher wages are significantly more burdened and, of course, young people go to neighbouring Austria or other countries where wage burdens are significantly lower. Other changes, which also seem to me to be of exceptional importance, are decreasing the tax rate in the fifth income class from 50 per cent to 45 per cent. This means, of course, that we may still retain some capable, younger one in some way with us in Slovenia. The rate of income from the renting of assets is decreasing from 27.5 per cent to 15 per cent. It's already been said here today, there's a lot of black broadcasts. On the other hand, the rents are essentially too high. Yes, of course, because the tax is also significantly too high and the reduction of this tax seems to me to be the right way to actually get to better rent prices and, on the other hand, to not actually get to black anymore. The rate of income from capital income is decreasing from 27.5 per cent to 25 per cent. And what also seems to me to be extremely important is that the income paid from the family pension and the income paid from the school funds be free of it. You all know how money is collected in the school funds, with various donations, then it is especially relevant at this time that old paper is collected in all schools for the school funds. And what is financed by these school funds? I don't know, activities like school in nature, then kids can go to competitions and stuff. Of course, the exemption from the payment of income for these purposes seems to me to be of exceptional importance. The rating for electric vehicles shall be reduced to zero when the employer provides the employee with a personal motor vehicle for private purposes. Of course, they are full of the mouth of our green environment, our orientation in this direction, and of course I understand that this law will also be supported by this measure. Another extremely important change is reintroduced by a senior facilitation. All those over 70 years of age – for those, this means a relief of thousands of 500 euros a year. In particular, this means that pension benefits will be untaxed up to a income of thousands of €433, and today they amount to a thousand €173. A new facility is being introduced to invest in digital transformation, a green shift of 40 per cent, a relief is being raised for all who accept apprentices, students, students under a student contract with the current 20 per cent to 80 per cent of the average wage, and for espionage relief for the deficit professions is being increased. All of these are changes that are in our legislation, at least that is how I assess, extremely important and urgent. The dilemma surrounding the congregations was exposed. Of course, if this government is trying to get more resources from municipalities, because we are aware that more resources for municipalities mean more development, then improving the quality of life for the people living in those municipalities means raising the averages several times. The Minister was pleased to say that the differences that will result from the lack of income will result in the State providing the municipalities with financial compensation, which means that the municipalities will by no means receive less funds. As the Minister has ensured, there will be no collapse of public finances, all of which are now full of mouths here on the left. On the other hand, migrant workers, many citizens are working, I don't know, in neighbouring Austria and they get each year, because, of course, wages are significantly less taxed, large income payments. As the overall relief rises from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 500, we will also largely solve their problem. That's why I think it's important that we support this marriage. In view of the current discussions, however, I see that we share more than obviously in this national assembly in those who want tax burdens and who support higher net wages and, of course, in those who want higher taxes and higher tax burdens. Of course I'm for everyone to get a bigger net salary. I know that this money will be spent, and I know that the country will get enough money back into the budget to be able to finance everyone by law-bound obligations. I will, of course, support the marriage at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you. Igor Peček has the word. Get Luka Moon ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, I'd like to say one sentence. Nobody wants higher tax burdens, I am sure we all want a better social environment, but if I sum up the essence of the law as interpreted by the Government, it is a matter of burdening businesses and individuals with the aim of improving competitiveness, increasing GDP and increased consumption. The general explanation of the government or minister, which we have heard many times today, is that the planned drop of a good 240 million a year will be compensated — or partially compensated — by higher consumption at the expense of higher or relatively high economic growth. Here we should first mention that in 2019 we had, relatively speaking, higher economic growth than we have this year. It's just a matter of numbers and comparing the period to the period. Even higher than anticipated in the next two years, although it is expected to be lower than what we have today. We had surplus in the budget and income from income proportional to other tax inflows in the budget. The structure of revenue changes substantially with this change, and expenditure also changes. Now, whether this structure that we have right now is proportional, legal, that's hard to judge, I'm not an expert at all, but there's a lot to be understood from the structure. I agree with the statement of colleagues and colleagues, including the Minister, that after all the research and analysis we have the opportunity to review, we tax the most labour costs in the Republic of Slovenia. After the proportion of social contributions we are within the OECD in second place, only the Netherlands is ahead of us, but it is also important to say here that higher contributions are paid only up to certain amounts in the Netherlands. Within the 27 members of the European Union, only Slovenia and Sweden have a so-called social cap-free system, where the amount of these contributions is constant, irrespective of what the revenues are. I think we should think about that, too. I stress this because we like to say very much, the Minister himself said that the proposal is also about "investment in highly educated, capable individuals who form the basis of a friendly business and social environment". I just read it out of an explanation. After all the professional analyses available, salary levels are not a key factor in young engineers, informatics, doctors moving out of the Republic of Slovenia, but is a reason in the first place for the medical staff, especially the working situation and the possibility of advancement. However, as regards technical and scientific personnel, the most relevant attitude of the State towards scientific research activities and several times exposed to patronage, which senior researchers have unjustifiably published achievements made by young researchers, young engineers, and most often the first to sign a mentor. This is not a negligible information and I think it should be taken seriously. Now, whether senior relief will truly lead to higher economic growth and greater consumption, it is possible to discuss. One of you is defending her. I personally doubt her. I personally believe that there is no need for any amendment at this time. In four years, it will mean the loss of a good 800 million in the state budget, regardless of whether we compensate it with other taxes; what the minister tells us. No matter what. We need this money bloody right now for some other investment, for another purpose. And while lowering revenues in the national budget, also taking into account the risks that will arise in the financial markets within the European Union, and probably a little wider beyond its borders in the years ahead, it is not wise and not wise. This is mainly because of the forecast that is increasing within the European Union that certain measures on the sustainability of public finances will need to be taken as soon as possible. I would like to rely on the publication on October 21st, which was on the European Policy Portal – I will only take two sentences – where it is predicted that the rules on public consumption, which have a major impact on GDP, will increase, even in order to avoid too much public spending, which would mean austerity measures in this area. And that must be taken into account. The Republic of Slovenia, whether we are above average or below average, in my opinion it does not even matter, the fact is that we have committed ourselves. We've committed a lot to the epidemic and something else. In the end, I'm going to take it very simply. We can be concerned and concerned about where we will be taking money in the coming years for all this deficit that we have had to create or that the Government continues to cause, perhaps in certain segments without need. In a way that lowers taxes and revenues in the budget, so that these have a rather small effect on those less wealthy we have the most, for those who are richer, but relatively few, I am sure that this will not be expressed in increased consumption; for those who have little less, yes, but for those who are larger, I am afraid that this impact will be most visible in deposits in banks and savings. We have seen this in the last two years, practically by over 15 percent of deposits in Slovenian banks. I think we need to keep this in mind. The Minister's announcement that we will save the budgets of the municipalities through financial imbalances – well, this has worried me. But I was concerned about the fact that I fear that because of the lower income, regardless of the fact that we are raising their average, the municipalities will have less income, less resources. In my opinion, this also means very simply that, as a result of this, the efforts we are making, which all companies or ministries are investing in green and digital transition projects, will be at risk. We all know what financial imbalances mean. They mean you don't have the money for a month, you get it at the end of the year, but you can't take the credit, you don't have enough liquidity to fund certain projects. And that's a worry that's not too big. The budget for 2022 and 2023 does not prove, as the Minister has said, but foresees that income from income will be higher, irrespective of the fact that we are now lowering it by measures. However, the basis accompanying such assessments is very risky. I'll just say two figures or three. In 2023, income was estimated at 784 million; in 2020, income flow was 164 million and in 2019 it was 1.39 billion. I personally support raising general relief, because it seems wrong for me to charge income to those who already come through the month anyway. However, if I take into account the law as a whole and all that is in the package of this law due to the anticipated higher consumption, higher economic growth is envisaged, then I cannot agree to such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you. The word is Luke the Moon. Get Andrei Chernigoy ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. As you know, the slogan of the Left was in the elections of the Treasure for all, not just for a handful. This marriage could only be named Blagginja for a handful. By the way, who gets by this law? Who gets through this division that you're rewriting? They first get 4,000 300 of the best paid in the country, says those who earn more than 70,000 euros a year because their income will go down. They get directors who can pay off less taxed Christmases. He gets the top 10 per cent of pensioners, those who have pensions over a thousand 500 euros. And it gets 1 percent of the population, the percentage that lives on more than its own, from its capital, from its income, from its investment, from its rent, and so on. But they lose everyone else. They lose in the first instance of the congregation. The municipalities will lose 400 million euros a year. That's half their tax revenue. This will result in the loss of kindergartens, elementary schools, volunteer firefighters, and those involved in clean drinking water. They'll lose. On the other hand, the state will lose. The country will lose 800 million a year. 800 million euros a year is money to build 10,000 public rental apartments, 120 new infectious clinics and so on. What are you gonna do with that money? This money will be pushed into the pockets of the 4 thousand 300 best paid, directors who would have a slightly higher Christmas house, top 10 percent of pensioners, and one population who already lives more than their own assets, anyway. So why are you doing this? We hear that this will have some developmental effects. This will have the opposite of developmental effects because the country will be impoverished because it will not be able to build hospitals, schools, kindergartens or even finance them. Only a few percent of the population will be at best. We hear you'll compensate and bring it in with other taxes. That's what the minister used to say. But look, if we want to make up 800 million euros to make this up to income, there should be 300,000 new jobs. Can anyone in my right mind here claim that this law that we have before us will create 300,000 jobs? And I'm telling you that some of these things are going to go to waste, because when you cut the state treasury by 800 million, you're probably going to have to forgive or save or close some institution. Then we hear how this government gives and how we share now with those who want to reward the work and those who want to tax the work. Look, this government of yours has completely lost touch with reality. You say we're going to give billions for hospitals, and we're going to give hundreds of millions for long-term care, and we're going to cut 800 million in taxes, while you guys already have 2.4 billion in the budget by the end of August. And for the second time, you have completed the budget for this year, now in the second step you will spend 670 million extra euros, which you do not have in your budget. So, in a three-billion-dollar hole, you plant flowers before the elections, what you're going to build, and at the same time cut the state treasury for 800 million euros. No, colleagues and colleagues, we don't share in those who want to reward the job, we share in those who want to tax it! We're dividing ourselves into those who can read tables, count and count, and those who obviously think that money is growing on a tree.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word to prepare himself for Jure Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear guests! Colleagues and colleagues! There was a stormy debate ahead of me. Mine will be a little more calm and reasonable, but Nova Slovenija has already published a programme in the past; a programme written by Nova Slovenije with experts who have already done much research in this area. And we've given the address to higher wages with lower taxes. If we can look back a little bit, we know that in 2015 public expenditure was according to OECD data 47.8 per cent of GDP and in 2016 more. In the field of labour tax burden, the Republic of Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties, while the OECD average stands at 36%. It is a burden to work in Slovenia, say, 42.7. This is said, on the one hand, the OECD average is 36 percent, and on the other hand it is 42.7 percent in Slovenia. Those who know little how to use numbers can say the difference is significant. What do we suggest? We are proposing a law that provides a gradual increase in general income relief, which means: up to higher wages with lower taxes. This makes more money for all citizens and citizens in their own wallets. That's how simple it sounds. Not only does this marriage bring about this, but it is also essential. The rate of income in the last tax grade is reduced from 50 per cent to 45 per cent and the rate of income from capital is reduced from 27 per cent to 25 per cent. For me, who try and listen to young people who have major difficulties in obtaining and renting apartments, it is essential to reduce the tax burden on renting assets. Income from rental income from today’s 27 and a half percent to 15 percent is declining. One in our country was raised in income, raised, and made it impossible for young people to live. Those who have an apartment prefer to choose: for the first time that they do not give up their apartment, for the second time, even younger ones prefer to see that they pay their rent in black because of such a big tax. And here is a 15 per cent reduction – I fully support 15 per cent, which will mean more housing and thus more money in the state budget. I support, very much support, employment of people with disabilities, make it easier to pay 45 per cent and facilitate the employment of a young person of 45 per cent of the salary from the age of 26 rises to 29 years. I don't think there's a Member here who would reject such matters. On the other hand, we have customers here who say they're green for a green break. This law also facilitates the promotion of a green and digital transition, through which the taxable person will reduce the tax base for certain qualified investments, may impose a reduction in the tax base of not 10, not 20, but 40 per cent of the amount of investment in digital transformation and green transition. Last but not least, a higher relief for humanitarian, cultural, sports and other purposes is provided, increasing from the current 0.3 per cent. This is called a threefold increase in relief. In addition, sport purposes shall also be placed between the purposes for which an additional relief of 0,2 is possible. I will support this law, primarily by reducing the rate of income from the renting of assets from 27.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Here Nova Slovenija and the entire right-wing government have a solution to how young people and others will come to the apartment easier. Of course, on the other hand, they have some, so they say, better solutions. It's a discharge. Citizens and citizens, imagine and take action in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The word is "Jure Ferryan." Let's get the mag ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, other guests, distinguished Members and all those who accompany us are warmly welcomed! The Novel of the Income Act is practically touching all of us. It touches everyone who works and creates in Slovenia. This means that the burden of labour taxation itself means greater competitiveness of Slovenia in the international environment, means higher net wages; simply put, it means more money in the wallets of each of us. This also means that Slovenia, when it enhances the competitiveness of the business environment, will, of course, be more attractive on the international floor in an international context for investments which, I am sure, will under this law, because the Slovenian business environment, as regards labour taxation, will be more favourable for both domestic and foreign capital. As a result, of course, this will reflect, we can say, in the medium and long term, both in terms of some development and of the progress that this will bring and, of course, higher economic growth. As a result, more money will be poured into the Treasury or into the Treasury. The central measure of this law is certainly to raise general income relief or general relief. In particular, this is a gradual rise from the existing EUR 3 000 500 of general relief to EUR 7 000 500 in 2025. Gradually, because this relief rises gradually for an additional thousand euros each year; that is, in 2022 4 thousand 500 euros and then continues to be up to 7,000 and a half in the year 25. This means that, of course, the work in Slovenia is burdened and this means significantly higher net revenues. Respected and respected, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in general, is expected to work and to take measures for greater prosperity, for a higher standard of living for all citizens and residents of this country, and for the Income Act or for a new law of this law, this is exactly what is being done. Everyone is certainly most interested in what he will have out of this law, of these measures, of the things we deal with and accept in the National Assembly. In this law, however, this can be said very explicitly very directly. Ladies and gentlemen, on this table or graphics, you can see very clearly how everything will be reflected in the individual who is applying, for example, only a general relief, which is currently EUR 3 000 500, which will amount to EUR 7 000 500 in 2025 after the adoption of this law. So, what will be the result at the annual level in an individual? For 2022 this means EUR 260 additional annual earnings. A year later, EUR 520, EUR 2024 780 and EUR 2025, when the total relief will be EUR 7 000 500, that is a thousand extra Euros for an individual who has an average salary in the Republic of Slovenia according to current data. For 2022, the average wage in Slovenia amounted to a good thousand EUR 208 net, or a good thousand EUR 856 gross, both for the feeling. This measure responds to the problem that working in Slovenia is one of the most taxed matters if we look at it in a comparable way in the European Union, if we also look at it in a broader context. With this relief, respected and respected, let us do something good for the individual, for the employee and, of course, for entrepreneurship, for the economy, for the employers. All of this, of course, also answers the departure of our staff, which is being educated in Slovenia, and then goes abroad, especially with highly educated staff, as the taxation of work is decreasing and, of course, gives businesses the opportunity to increase the remuneration of workers, higher wages and thus the growth of businesses and consequently the growth of the economy. As we can see, this law, the new Law on Income, has multiple effects. If we somehow connect things together, we start by lowering labour taxes, which means lower labour costs, resulting in higher net wages. At the same time, of course, it is also possible to increase the remuneration of employees. This is also reflected in the greater motivation of employees, in greater efficiency, productivity of workers, as a result of higher added value, the result of higher economic growth, and in a broader context, the results of state progress and development are seen. And that's what I'm sure is that we all want to sit here and stare at. Now it is up to us to actually show this by voting. The New Law on Income, Respected and Respected, brings with it a number of other matters that are also important. It is a matter of decommissioning income from capital and rent; it is also a new relief for investing in green and digital transitions; the introduction of senior relief; and the abolition of income from school funds; and the payment of income from children's income from the family pension. It is important to point out that this loss due to a reduction in the tax, that the Slovenian municipality will not be harmed. We have already seen with concrete information that, in fact, in the nine months of this year, we have already caught up with the planned income or income of the country on income for 2020 and, in fact, this financial result, the financial outage due to this law, is already in fact covered. At the same time, as people will have more money, they will also spend more and, of course, there will be tax inflows to the state treasury more. To ensure that this government does not devote money to Slovenian municipalities, it also confirms very clear information on averages. In 2019 the Slovenian municipalities received 589.11 euros in average and in 2020 they received 623,96 euros under the government of Janez Janša, which is a good 34, almost 35 euros more. There is even more money or money in this year, when the average is 628.20 euros and given that the government has already taken a decision for 2022 and 2023, we see that the averages will continue to increase rapidly in the coming years; in 2022 to 645 euros and then in 2023 to an additional 2 euros to 647 euros. Respected and respected, if any government is aware of the importance of local communities, the importance of contributing to development, to progress, to raising the standard of living, it is the government of Janez Janša. And that's what specific data says, specific numbers, and that's what people in the field say when you ask them. Respected and respected! Let me look at this concluding part of my discussion in some way at the beginning of the talk on the law or amendment of the Income Law. I remember when the Ministry of Finance, or when the Minister of Finance introduced this law, said that there were a number of responses; there were many positive responses. However, it was interesting, respected and respected, the show, which was broadcast on Radio 1 on 10 May this year, the Studio at 5 p.m. was broadcast, and there was also Mrs Lidija Jerkič, President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, in addition to the Minister of Finance. And since Mrs. Jerkičev is doing her best in this situation, I will quote her. She said: “Now you’re putting me in a slightly awkward situation, because I have to say that in any way I’m thinking about how to explain why we’re not very excited about such a change that brings more net remuneration — I don’t know. Simply explain to man why we are now against, but if his wages are greater." Ms Lidija Jerkič, President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, 10 May this year on Radio 1, Studio at 5 p.m., was a literal quote. Respected and respected, we have probably become the first country in the world in Slovenia, where trade unions that are supposed to represent workers' rights are opposed to raising workers' wages. Let him understand who can! I wish, and I hope, that such logic is not an agenda for political parties who consider themselves KUL parties. In doing so, the question opens to me is whether, for the sake of opposition, demolition or whatever you want to do to this government, you will break a law that raises prosperity, which raises net benefits, which raises wages for all, respected and respected, for all who work and create prosperity in Slovenia. Because that's exactly what this law brings. Each of us who works and creates, because of this law, will have higher incomes on the basis of lower taxes, more money in the account, in the wallet. It's so simple. Everything else is just a search for excuses, respected and respected. Let me conclude that in the past, far and near, we have heard a lot of promises about higher wages, higher pensions, a lot of things. Respected and respected, I think we've all been able to prove to this day that only higher wages can be a guarantee for higher pensions. That's all. And this marriage, respected and respected, brings higher wages and, consequently, higher pensions. And since I am sure that the work in Slovenia is too taxed, and because I am convinced that you are Slovenians and Slovenians, the inhabitants and residents of this country that we are working and creating, we deserve a higher salary, a fair pay for our work, that this country has a hearing for everyone who works and creates in Slovenia, and wants to increase his salary at the expense of tax relief, I will support the new Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Let's get the mags ready. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Slovenian Government and other present, welcome! Let me begin by feeling very uncomfortable in Parliament when the right side strikes the unions when they are not present. Attacking someone who can't say anything in his own defense is simply not an act that would belong to Parliament. That's the first thing. And secondly, it makes me feel more uncomfortable when I see what ideologies in the past had as one of the main targets of the union. Please don't do this. Let's face each other in an argumentative manner. But those who are not present may not be our target because they cannot defend themselves. This is my request at the beginning. It is quite clear that on this side we see tax policy differently than on the right. There's nothing wrong with that. On this basis, the electorate and the electorate decide who will be elected. One side, the right side, leads the so-called Trump policy or the Margaret Thatcher policy – and all of this is legitimate – that is, as little as possible taxes, as few contributions as possible, such and different, because we will earn more and then pay the insurance and everything else. And then the one who's better will have a better school, better health care and so on. It's a legitimate policy if the voters confirm it. On this side, of course, we speak differently. We are primarily talking about solidarity, that man is a human being and regardless of his property, regardless of his parents, regardless of the region from which he comes, and regardless of his income, he deserves the same health care, education and so on. This is the principle of solidarity, which I hope will always have a majority in this country. What I don't like is empty promises. It's not the first time, is it? But just to promise that we'll have more when it gets smaller, it doesn't hold. This does not hold up by economic doctrine, not by economic theory, nor by economic practice. The results of the first Janša government, the other Janša government, of course, were felt by citizens and citizens on their skin. The following governments had to resolve this and it was very difficult. And if you think about the debate last week, it showed all the dangerous situations we're in. We talked about a project, which is important, so that with some solidarity we can also provide the elderly with respectable age through long-term care. That's great. But what we had a big problem with all the time is the numbers in the background. The first year will take an extra 100, then 200, then 400 million, and so on. Those who were right have said that the project will actually cost around a billion, but it is not even about a guaranteed source, but it appears with a finger to the budget. Ah, that's one cost that the Slovenian budget will further manage, and then one day in 2025 we'll either introduce something or not. The problem is that similar laws – some are even adopted – that make big promises about important things – the construction of new and the adaptation of old hospitals and the like – is an important thing that I support, but I am aware that this money will have to be made from the budget, invested from the budget. And if all we now promise – I hope that the higher salaries of nurses and family doctors and many others will finally come to order. But all this costs, none of this will come from heaven. All of this costs, and it is necessary to ensure that this is paid through taxes collected. What a lot of people might be listening to or possibly watching at this hour does not know, but I believe that Members and Members know that according to public finances, therefore, according to the taxes collected, contributions collected, and I do not know what else, Slovenia is not even nearly a champion. He's not a champion. There's always talk of picking up materially more than anything else, and that's not true. I have before me what the OECD has published, this institution in Paris you all know. At the OECD, it is clear that 2020 does not yet have all the data that the total public funding resources, i.e. all forms of taxes, contributions and the like, are 37.6 per cent in Slovenia, of course for the operation of the country and everything else. However, the European Union average is higher than 41.1. The average of Germany to which we like to compare ourselves is higher, is 38.8; Austria, with which we like to compare ourselves, is 42.4; for example Sweden, which would really like to be similar because of its solidarity, but it is almost 50 percent. Therefore, it is not considered that the sum of all taxes and contributions collected in Slovenia is higher. No, it's lower! This is also why, if you look at it, we are actually giving enough money out of the budget for Slovenian health care. We have some disabled supplementary health insurance that should essentially be basic, remained complementary of course they can, and then we should devote more. I hope we will, too, but it takes money for all of this. But the fact is, it's too much work. I am the first to agree that there is a need to increase general tax relief and the like, and I want to be honest with citizens and citizens – if you lower something, you have to raise it somewhere else. Last week, when we talked about long-term care, I asked, let me say, please nice, okay, we need 200, 400 million, and tell us what the purpose is, or the tax rises, I don't know, the assets, the capital gains, or the VAT will rise, whatever, but it was silence, like we're inside the grave. But if you give something away, you have to take it from somewhere, it's a basic rule that we don't stick to today. Today we have a document that speaks, we are going to reduce on various income items in a way that comes from a quarter of a billion on, I don't know, 800 million or even a few more in a few years. That's huge money. If it was in the back, okay, we'd get this money based on that and that, it'd be understandable, but it's not there. What I don't like is when people are fooled. Rumor has it they'll have more nets. The problem is, those who are the hardest to get the lowest wages already — how much do they pay? How much do these people pay? Tell me who will benefit most from what's in front of you. Foreign managers! Because they have the highest wages; perhaps in some Slovenian corporation that is internationally successful. Let's be honest! This is written for them, not for those who are more difficult or more difficult. Then we'll raise additional senior relief. But it is always forgotten that we generally have and that because of the general — how many percent of the pensioners and pensioners do not pay their income? You'll see again that the law is written, I don't know, for 10, 15 percent of those who get the highest pensions. Let's say that out loud. This marriage is not for most pensioners! They won't have anything else. You wrote it for that, I don't know, 10, 15 percent, maybe some number up, down, because I don't have all the exact data -- the opposition doesn't have all the data available on the right side -- but not for most. People don't know that. When it comes to talking, yes, the senior makes it easier for me, for those who have the highest pensions! [[…]] In fact, I want the following: I want it to grow, but by paying the taxes from this salary as well. If we say so, the pay will increase by giving up all the taxes and contributions that the state collects, because then we will not be like Austria. Do you know why there is such a big difference in income collection between us and Austria? Because there's such a big difference between average pay. If the average wage in Slovenia were comparable to the average wage in Austria, all these deviations would no longer be present. So simple measures: immediately raise the average wage – of course this is utopian, because this can only happen with higher added value. We all know that. But that's the main reason that the difference is when contributions are collected from income. I really wish we had a unified view, because I have a feeling even that we have to spend more money on stabilising public health in all these segments when we have to. So investments, training, so that health walls will finally behave very rationally, organizationally capable; and also those who work will get paid more, but will need to provide money. This is an advantage to us as a priority point. The idea that we can live in the next few years is, I don't know, with a half-billion, one-billion-billion-dollar hole in the budget, but an idea that can't be. Not just because of the criteria agreed together in the European Union. This is perhaps less important. It's about being unethical. It is bad enough to want to do something today in a way that is known to be paid by our children, grandchildren, or grandchildren. That is why I would like the law that we have here today to withdraw – but I think this is no longer possible – to withdraw it and replace it with such that the general income relief really rises; but the opposite is to tell where the money is going to be taken, so that the financial effect is zero. And then we would have a much better interlocutor on this left side, because then we would know that this is not a deliberate undermining of the financial foundations of the country. Because we already have twice this kind of experience with you. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Jure Ferjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I do not think there is any dispute, but it is more welcome that sometimes in the National Assembly, we support what we comment on and speak with specific quotes and certain relevant representatives when they speak, comment on the issues that we are dealing with here, whether they are present or not. In particular, in this case, I do not know what is at stake in quoting the words of the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, and they do not support the words of this law. What's the problem? Otherwise, I hope that if Mrs Lidija were here, that she might have a different view that they are still at the time – this quote was made on 10 May this year – she realized that the Government had drawn up a law that actually increases net earnings, which increases wages on the basis of lower taxes for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who work and create in Slovenia, for all the residents and residents who work and create in the Republic of Slovenia. And there will be no dilemma. See, this is what Mrs Lidija Jerkič said, quote: "Now you are putting me in a slightly awkward situation, because I must say that in any way I am thinking about how to explain why we are not very excited about such a change that brings more net remuneration. I cannot simply explain to a man why we are now against if his salary is greater." From this I understand that Slovenian trade unions are against raising labour wages. How can we understand something other than this — from these words? And yes, it grieves me personally, but I believe that colleagues from the Social Democrats also grieve or disturb them, don't you? But unfortunately in Slovenia we have such unions that are against the fact that Slovenian workers have higher salaries: the ones with lower and the ones with the average and the ones with higher salaries. This is the reality of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Well, my predecessor just did a lot of deceiving, didn't he? Since the fact is, as has been said several times already today, that this tax reform, as with all the attempts made so far by tax reforms, is primarily rewarding those richest and capital. Indeed, as previously stated, the lowest wages are already eligible for general tax exemption. Above all, we need to talk about the economy, the incentives for the economy, not taxes, and I believe that we all want higher wages in the Republic of Slovenia. I am in favour of making these funds available to the most powerful instead of tax breaks for the construction of non-profit apartments, which we are going to talk about today, for grants for kindergartens, for additional scholarships, for the long-term care of which the law is also in the procedure, but you do not know, the respected Government, where you will take the funds for this area, which is absolutely necessary. If we want to invest in people, we need to pay attention to these topics, but if we want higher wages than we say, we need to talk about the economy, not taxes. We can't and can't raise wages by lowering taxes. Under the right neoliberal government, we have witnessed a flood of ideas about tax burdens – especially the most powerful ones of course; from the social cap that you then withdrew, because you were obviously afraid and saw that the matter would not go through the National Assembly, more than a hundred euros of the monthly burden of the highest wages, to a reduction in the rate of income and capital taxes. The government says that tax reform will affect the structure of the economy, so that lower taxes and tax relief of wages will contribute to the growth and arrival of high-tech and development companies. I do not think it is necessary to stress this because we all know very well that the competitiveness and cost of the labour force does not attract high value-added companies. You say that the lower taxes of the most powerful will solve the difficulties of the Slovenian economy. It's certainly not what you said. Lower wage burdens will mean that employers will automatically invest in research and development — not true; and this will not be tested. If they have forgotten about the government, I propose that they find data from 1996 when the rate of employers' contributions decreased and are taught. We have become the only European country where employers pay a lower amount for pension and disability insurance than workers. We should be dealing with these things. Well, we haven't moved anywhere on the country scale after the economy's development investments. Higher wages and consequently higher available income for people and households can be regulated by wage policies and measures to strengthen the economy. Ironically, in the last year, the economy is pointing to a number of epidemic traps that the government unfortunately does not want to hear about, helping only its friends and the Roman Catholic Church. Finally, these neoliberals, who are proponents and, of course, great advocates of tax change, have been rooting for the dismantling and sale of state-owned enterprises for years, leading in many cases to restructuring and subjugation to foreign centres. My point is, I'm a stranger. As a result, we lost the number of higher-skilled jobs. If we behave this way, if we do not worry about our economy, if we enter the labour force's price race, we can also end the income, and it will not help us completely, because jobs with high added value will become less and less. There is no way that I can accept the argument that we will build the competitiveness of companies and Slovenian companies in reducing social standards, which, of course, will result in a fall in taxes. There is no way that I can and will not support a proposal that primarily reduces income for the most powerful by more than 100 euros per year and for those on the other side of the scale even for a handful of coins. Once again, instead of tax breaks, I prefer to use these funds to build non-profit apartments, for subsidies for kindergartens, for long-term care, for scholarships. If we want to invest in people, we need to pay attention to these topics, if we want higher wages, but we need to talk about the economy and not taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get ready to land Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to welcome the amendment of the Income Act sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that this is the right step towards tax reform, which Slovenia would say it has taken quite some time. With the amendment of the Income Act, it is mainly a matter of burdening the high tax burdens of all residents of the Republic of Slovenia and of Slovenian companies. I am convinced that such a step is correct, because the fact is that in Slovenia taxes are higher than in other countries of the European Union and that with these higher taxes they mainly lose the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have less net available income. I am sure that all these changes are going in the right direction. The problem I see on the side of the opposition is that all of these things are static. I am confident that with all these tax burdens, which will follow the adoption of this legislation, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy will improve, the purchasing power of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will increase and, consequently, the revenue will increase in the Slovenian budget in the short term, especially in the long term. I would like to mention to all those who do not believe the case, only the case which the Minister of Finance has already pointed out earlier, that, in view of the planned revenue for the period January–September this year on the income side, these incomes have actually increased significantly and that, given the expected revenue from the revenue, I think it is higher than EUR 200 million. It should be pointed out that during this government, the government of Janez Janša and the coalition of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the parties of the modern centre and those who support this government, Slovenia, I would say that one of the highest economic growth in the European Union and that Slovenia is currently recording one of the smallest unemployment rates and that credit rating agencies in Slovenia are upgrading credit ratings. This means that confidence in the Republic of Slovenia, in the economic policy pursued by that government, is followed abroad by approval. That taxes in Slovenia are too high, the data on the problem of migrant workers working in Austria is relevant. Dearly respected, especially now, within an hour, the greatest talk was by the Social Democrats, how taxes in Slovenia are fine, how they are not. I suggest you enter into interviews with migrant workers working in Austria. Why does a migrant worker working in Austria have to pay Slovenian income? Not because he is double-taxed, but because there are significantly higher taxes in Slovenia than they are in Austria. As a result, the migrant worker from Austria has to pay additional income. This is a fine example, and in this case all your concerns by the Social Democrats are falling. Also for those with lower incomes, this change in income will increase the purchasing power and the available net income. Dear Mr Koprivc, also one with a thousand 500 euros of gross wages, which is slightly more than a thousand euros of wages, we will pay an additional one a year with this tax change. I have always advocated the need to raise wages, but not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but at the expense of tax burdens. This law, the amendment of the Income Act, is clearly going this way. On the one hand, I also understand the opposition, which in some way has been pervading the entire period of the government of Janez Janša, but I absolutely cannot understand the Slovenian unions. But Slovenian trade unions are probably the world's uniques. I don't know the world unions or one union in the world that opposes higher wages for workers. In Slovenia, unions do just that. Thus, Slovenian trade unions are likely to oppose the higher wages of workers, according to these statements. I really don't know why unions should be here as public finance advocate instead of working for those who pay their membership fees. Workers pay union membership fees and trade unions oppose the increase in workers’ salaries. This thing doesn't make any sense to me. I am sure that all this legislative change will have a positive impact, and I am sure it will also not undermine the sustainability of public finances. This will create higher revenues, the Slovenian economy will be more competitive, all citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will have higher net available income, higher wages. Not to be fooled by the fact that this amendment to the Income Act means a bonus only for the rich. Far from it. The property tax is also being reduced. We all know that today properties, rents are very high in Slovenia. Remember what Charche's government did. The Sharcha government has raised the property tax. What was the property tax epilogue? There's been an increase in rent. This means that the most vulnerable group was again affected. It was not only burdened the owners of the property, but mainly due to the increase in the property tax, real estate leases have increased substantially and the black market has also increased. I am convinced that by reducing the property tax, it is likely that the rents will decrease and that the black market will decrease. I myself will support this proposal, which I think is justified. Such a tax reform, in the so-called mines, would have taken Slovenia many years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter, prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First, I'm going to rely on what my predecessor said, but only in the introductions. Trust in the government's economic policy. This may be one mantra which representatives of the current government would like to avoid in public. In 2021, as we predicted in terms of the epidemic, in a time of crisis that is now most current in energy consumption, as a result also in the housing crisis, the minimum cost of living is now in some strange limbo, the calculation of costs, because the costs themselves are increasing, the minimum cost of living is calculated by some old formula, in short, in some chaos, which is mainly associated with the social crisis. Here, of course, the state budget comes to the rescue and it is right for it to come. From this title, emptying the budget, to say the least, to help people is not a problem, but of course it is the policy's responsibility to ensure, on the other hand, that the state budget is preserved in some balance for people's well-being. Therefore, here, what we are stressing all the time in Levica, is this institution of proportional or progressive taxation, where the one who has more is said to contribute more in his own household. And not vice versa or diametrically opposite. What the current government is offering, with the current proposal, is, to the one who has the most, and to forgive capital for more. In other words, if you empty the state treasury — and in times of crisis — you have to fill in to help people in this way. This proposal is a diametric contradiction of crisis management to the state budget. As a result, the crisis comes at the level of the state budget, and then the poor will come back to help with recapitalisations with some new soups or tightening the belt and so on, all of which we have already learned from the past. The current government in this spasm, the budget collapse comes with one tax reform that will simply empty the state budget and other public treasury. The numbers are clear. Contrary to the intervention measures that we have practiced in this last year and nine months, which, in principle, come and once empty the budget, this tax reform that we have today on the table will result in a permanent outage of budgetary resources, which will be most reflected in municipal budgets and on the social map of the Republic of Slovenia. The novelty of the current Income Law will only be emptyed by the state budget for 250 million in the following year, in 2022 – one of the friendly, transitional years. 250 million, respected colleagues and colleagues, converted to possibly the most alarming need on a social map, to nursing homes, is 50 homes. 50 homes of the elderly. This is only the first transitional year, which will cost the state budget 250 million. The target is 800 million over 2025. And I'm not even going to convert this into apartments, strengthening public health, solving the housing crisis, and so on. And then, of course, the next step, the municipal budgets, where about half of the realised income runs out at this address, which means that even in 2025 municipal budgets will be poorer by EUR 400 million. 400 million euros to make 4,000 200 richest people a little more. This is unacceptable, it interferes directly with municipal infrastructure, in schools, in the social map of the Republic of Slovenia, again profiting those who already have enough. Those who break through from month to month, at the expense of those, draw short again. The key is sound budget management, which is in the hands of the policy. A proposal such as one where the rich continue to laugh nicely, and the poor are growing more — only during this crisis are 30,000 people living below the poverty threshold, if I am not mistaken — becoming shameless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word is "Iva Dimic." Let's get the mag ready. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance! It is true that before us we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which brings what you are for, I can say, in Novi Slovenija we are working all the time, and this is a tax burden on work. The proposal for a law entails a gradual increase in general income relief. Remember, when we tabled several proposals in New Slovenia to raise general income savings or rates, we said we would raise it to a good €7,000. All fellow Members also agreed that this was a very good move, but ultimately our proposal did not receive the necessary support. It seems to me that we are going gradually now, for 2022 it is estimated to be 4 000 500, for 2023 to 5 000 500, for 2024 to 6 000 500 and for 2025 it would be 7 000 500 Euros of general income relief. In fact, this means that it will gradually be possible to give people a lower income burden and eventually the net balance will be larger. What they get in their wallets will be higher net revenue. What I think is important in this bill is to draw attention to what my colleagues already have before me – that the rising relief for donations to humanitarian, cultural, sports and other purposes increases from 0.3% to 1%. In addition, sport purposes shall be placed between the purposes for which an additional relief of 0,2 % is possible. When we talk about athletes, we are all proud, happy, when something needs to be done for them, and we look for reasons. I am happy and pleased that this can be raised for this purpose and that this will also help them to remain a sports country and to support sport. It is also very important that all children who receive a pension after one of the deceased parents, however, are provided with no more income. We know that if the child was given an allowance, he was entitled to a pension after his deceased parent, but he was not. In short, we undo what we have done — eliminate inequalities, correct injustices, for it is wrong. I welcome a law that actually brings at least 250 million to everyone, as far as it is supposed to be, which has already been exposed, a deficit. No, there won't be a shortage. That money will be directed directly and exclusively to people. Here we go again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, prepare Soniboj the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very nice greetings, representatives of the Ministry and other colleagues and colleagues in the hall! Today we have before us amendments to the Income Act, with bitter debate about what we are defending those in the coalition and, on the other hand, those who are in the opposition. Everyone has a position, we all stress that we want to help people, but it still seems like we're talking about other things. But we always have the same change of law ahead of us. We always want to look for solutions to relieve businesses, to help individuals, individuals, to make our country more competitive in the business world, and of course there would not be as much brain drain as possible in other countries to keep as much staff in the Republic of Slovenia after the study has been completed. They never come up with a solution on the table. Today, when we have proposed amendments to the Income Act, it seems that we will by no means come to the common denominator and at least in the first reading confirm the bill's proposal. I hope that there will be so much wisdom that at the end of the first reading we can confirm this, that we can then reconcile with the amendments what remains uncoordinated, because the law is good for our citizens and citizens and for businesses. As has been pointed out several times today, the reduction in general income relief is an essential part of this law, gradually, because it is only in this way that we will be able to coordinate from year to year and to bring in the loss of income from this title on the other hand. In this way, we will also be able to control the way in which the congregations receive slightly less income from the income received. The financial compensation will cover this manna. Much has also been said about other vulnerable groups, about pensioners and also about students, students, children and this amendment to the Income Act. It brings a burden on senior relief and is a burden on family pension income and payout from school funds for preschool children, pupils and students. So for these two groups there will also be a general benefit to the income. At the same time, the grey economy will decrease and we will have less unemployment. Although the debate today has repeatedly stressed that we need more resources to build a pensioner's home and more funds to build hospitals for school infrastructure, including for an infection clinic, this government is already doing so. During her term of office, this government showed results, not just in words. All of this is reflected in the field and I do not understand why this is being stressed today, because what we have on the table today is just an upgrade to what is already being done in the country. It appears with indicators that the responses are good, the results are higher, the economic growth is higher, we have one of the lowest unemployment among countries and also the municipalities that this government has raised averages. In fact, what is today will only be an additional plus for both businesses and natural persons, as more financial resources will remain available to them and will be spent on them and will be filled from other sources on the other hand. Deception that we just want to raise a certain layer of people is not true. It can't really be true that we just want a certain layer of people to be covered in this change of law. You know that some services have indeed been justified in the past, but others have not. This government is doing it. If change happens, it will happen for everyone. General income relief is for all residents and not just for the privileged. In fact, when there will also be a senior relief, it has been said that this part will also be for the privileged, says those who have higher pensions. This too was previously justified by the minister, and this was rejected, not just a handful of people. I think that we should all join forces in this first reading and the proposal for amendments to the Income Act to support the welfare of all our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word, to prepare Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! For several hours now, we've been listening to the coalition's explanation of what good law you're proposing to us. In fact, the debate is in this direction that you have even come to the conclusion that in this national assembly we have those who you are to reduce taxes that you are good guys, and all the others that we oppose, we are for higher taxes. You borrowed the unions that aren't here today. In short, one set of some populism claims. In my firm belief, though, this is a kind of law that I support in certain parts, some of the solutions that it proposes. But – here we usually have problems with us – I estimate that there are two different views, at least if I assess this mandate of government or governance with the country. On the one hand, we had a responsible policy, which had a record budget, which also regularly reduced public debt, approached the Maastricht objectives. We are among the best in the Union, 65%. This responsible policy has also faced the problem that is present in this country, namely that we already have 90 per cent and more of the budget somewhere cemented for expenditure, that this country is functioning, and that we have extremely little money for investment. So last time we, the previous coalition, I think that with Levica and even the fights we broke up with some 15 million, which is absurd. This is part of the look at the leadership of the country that you got into leading, in management, not in ownership. And now the model we've witnessed to him in the last year and a half. This is a populism concept, full of some good ideas with one big deficit, which is that usually these ideas do not have financial coverage. If I put all of this into a situation caused by a health epidemic, when you have the possibility of being in debt – which of course I welcome – we are not the only ones – but we have been in charge of the things that are needed for a year and a half for several laws that have helped the economy, for individuals, but on the other hand we have had a large amount of pre-election candy, distribution of public money for categories that have not been completely affected by the crown, for services to various friends, universities, different set-ups, not to mention them in particular. That's the difference. That's the difference. You don't have a fiscal world, a record debt this year and a half. I mean, like my colleague Pogačnik said before, yes, the numbers definitely hold. And the numbers tell us what I just told you. You're making laws, like I said, with great ideas, I don't know, the necessary health investment law for the next 10 years. Great, I support it, we do have 90% of the infrastructure from the previous system, which says I don't know what it was. But you forget to define resources. You're charging a few hundred million to the next governments, and everyone's gonna have to provide them. Great, ideas are good, but finance will do the following. This was the case with all the governments of John Janša. Let me remind you of the infamous Zuyf, retirement, salary, progress in the state sector. The next government, what was she doing? You paid for everything you froze back then, you took away, and then you asked us, and you asked me, and then I wasn't there, and then you were doing what you were doing, why you weren't home. Yes, because we were paying the debts that your government had made at the time. It's cute, I've mentioned it many times before, and going to the bank to get a loan, and the head starts to ache when you have to pay it back. You forget that a lot. Higher pensions, lower taxes on those who have more than a thousand 500 euros in pension. Do you know how many there are who have over a thousand 500 pensions? 13,000 300, 3.5%. Don't think about how much you're giving. The municipalities. On the one hand, you raise the average, which I welcome, I have worked for 20 years in the municipal world and I know that it was necessary, this is a good move, but at the same time, you are interfering with their finances and you are taking a significant source of revenue. This minister said they'd make a compensatory scheme. I don't know where the minister's gonna be in two or three years. The law in this form increases the inequality in this society, in fact with the proposed measures it brings the most to those who have so far. In the absence of a social dialogue, the law asks colleague Pogačnik why unions are regarded as a public finance advocate. Because in three or four years, they will face the fact that the wages will be frozen and the wages will be reduced because there will be no money. What more would they know about their opinion if at least once we called on the Economic and Social Council, which should also consider this law, on the basis of the criteria agreed upon in this country years ago. Because of all this law, which is opposed by the unions, the congregations, the Fiscal Council, of course, with my colleagues, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has Miha Kordish, to prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government of Janez Janša has committed not only to confiscate the state treasury for its friends and friends in the economy, such as various bits, cryptoboys, the hands of snowmen, as we know under the common umbrella name of corruption, in a given case, quite obvious and in everyone's eyes. It is even worse with today's Income Act, which would take 800 million euros a year from the Government to the social state, which is financed by health care, education, infrastructure and so on, and, of course, to the highest wages in the country to the real estate baron and so on. We'll be in Levica against this financial blow to the social state. If I take a walk through some very specific cases and measures she wrote in it. First, it falls into the eyes of lowering the income levels of the highest income class from 50% to 45%. Simply put, those who have far the most in this country, which can be considered rich, even for the Slovenian situation, will pay less tax than they are paying now. We are not just talking about one abstract class of rich people, we are talking about the very specific 4,000 300 people with the highest wages in the country. This is 4 thousand 300 names and surnames of certain gentlemen and ladies for whom Janez Janša works. It is difficult for these richest ones to say that they are second-rate, which the SDS likes to refer to so much. More first-class than 4,000,300 of the largest rich people in this country are hard to find. Another major tax gift for the rich is a raise in general relief. Yes, raising general relief will apply to all who receive wages in this country — but how? Someone with a gross salary of €800 awaits an annual difference of exactly zero euros for this tax relief. If we look at the other end of the income scale, we have a man with 20,000 gross wages, says one manager, very high in a bank or in an industrial conglomerate, well, this man is waiting for 7 000 373 euros a year more, of course at the expense of income in a cash register or in a social state budget, which is so badly needed for a development breakthrough. The same logic is also expressed in untaxed Christmases for the director. Currently, part of the salary for business performance can be taxed at 100 % of the average monthly salary of all employees in Slovenia. It is said that someone who already receives a huge salary in some management position will now be able to receive untaxed business performance. Can merchants in Mercator, Hofer, industrial workers hope the same? No, no, no. Twice not, really. First of all, because it's even a question of whether this kind of Christmas proletariat gets. Not in most cases. And secondly, even if we do, it is difficult to talk about such awards or late payment for work done over the average wage number that is valid in that country. The only ones who will truly benefit from this are in a rich caste of managers, managers who sit in responsible positions in this society who are not adults and receive a disproportionately large share of the created value, values created by workers and workers. And to these latter, the government of Janez Janša denies the social state by virtue of the Income Act, I repeat, the amount of €800 million lost each year, in order that the first, the richest, actually additionally rewards the first and raises the question to the whole community in the Republic of Slovenia. Just for the record. What else is happening at the same time when we have on the table this destruction and looting of the social state, which would ruin the revenue side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, if such a law were adopted, happens in the parliamentary procedure? A few months ago, the coalition supported a law that will spend €780 million in the next few years on arms purchases that we don't need at all. Purchases that are in fact a Slovenian subsidy to foreign weapons. The Health Infrastructure Investment Act is being adopted, with €2 billion to go into this over the next 10 years. Nice and well, grateful, ladies and gentlemen, but who's gonna pay for it? Where will this money come from, however, when the budget, which is supposed to finance all this, not only is it very difficult to carry the expenditure now, even the unnecessary ones, but it will also create 800 million euros of holes every year if your income law is adopted? These two do not go together, these two are not a reflection of financial seriousness or political seriousness or anything, but merely of the government's madness in leaving, who wants to collect everything that is not nailed, if not for himself and his friends, but for the capitalist class as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you. The word has Alexander Reberšek, to prepare Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. I think all the words of my predecessor are superfluous. Because if what he just said was what he wanted to do, the left-wing party would go to the government. I've said many times that they didn't want to go to the government because they calculated that the chair was worth more. And also because what they're saying could never be done. That's why they chose the opposition. And this government is solely and solely because of the Left, so all your words are completely superfluous. In Novi Slovenija, we think the following is crucial. Those who work must also have more to do with their work. Whoever's working has to have more. Pika. Therefore, we propose a gradual increase in general income relief, which means that everyone will have higher net wages at the same rate, it is said that we will not tax employers further, which I personally think is very important. Greater net wages will be paid both by those employed in the public sector and by those employed in the economy. We propose to raise general income relief from 3 000 500 to 7 000 500 euros by 2025. What does that mean? This means that the minimum wage after 2025 will be €53 per month, which will be €640 per year, with an average salary of €90 per month, amounting to €000 per year plus. For New Slovenia, work is a work of value. Someone who works can't be poor, but he has to earn enough for a decent life to come through the month and live decently to survive his family too. Every policy should aim at a citizen who survives and does not live with his salary. We also proposed similar proposals years ago in the Sharchev government, but we did not have sufficient support at the time. It is now similar here, but an improved, more comprehensive proposal with additional measures. So, what we say in the opposition, we also do when we're in power. The new Slovenia supports, of course, the amendments that relieve work. It is probably the greatest burden of work in the history of Slovenia. When I listen to the party Left, how we relieve our rich citizens, it sounds good, but the truth is, of course, very different. I am doing everything I can to get the most out of those who have the least and work, but it is essential that we relieve those who are doing the highest added value, those who also have higher wages, and, more importantly, we have to stop the brain drain. Especially young people educated abroad. Many young people go abroad because of better working conditions, many young people go abroad also because of wages, and Levica does not speak. That's why it's necessary for us to stop all of this. Over 15,000 of our young citizens with higher education or higher education are evicted and we must do everything we can to create an opportunity, as well as quality jobs, and to retain this potential in Slovenia. Therefore, we also propose additional incentives for the employment of young people, for persons under 25 years of age and also for those who are first involved in the labour market. Dean Jedhan says we don't give enough money for health care. Let me just remind you that this government has spent 2 billion on health care in the next 10 years, while you have not built a single hospital, and you have been in power for 14 years in the last 20 years. You are also very concerned that we are giving money to our citizens. Why is it not painful for you to share the money with individuals in project TES 6? Why didn't that hurt you? Were you there? By the way, Member Koprivc of the SD Party is talking about subsidies, about kindergartens. The difference between you and us is that you talk and write a program, and we actually do. You've cancelled a free meal, we're introducing a free kindergarten for another child, we're giving money for school infrastructure and so on. The proposal for a law on income with which people will be left, you will not be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you, Chairman. I was directly named, so let me rephrase with the next one. Who are those poor workers who are not paid enough in the opinion of New Slovenia? This is 4 thousand 300 of the largest salaries in the country and their recipients, which are being cut by the government of Janez Janša at the expense of the social state. These are managers in various banks and industrial conglomerates who receive 20 000 euros of gross wages, which the Government gives them with a tax cut of 7 000 Euros of additional income each year, again at the expense of the social state. And since the young Member of New Slovenia is so eager to fly into Levico, let me finish the replica with the following. Left goes to the next government and New Slovenia gets out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	The word has Ljubo Žnidar, prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact that we cannot go beyond is that Slovenia is among the least-attractive countries compared to our neighbours, or, if possible, a little wider, than the whole European Union. If we ask here about several segments of this bill, let us ask why the Slovenian economy is less competitive with other neighbouring economies. Because the Slovenian economy is burdened with a high percentage of the gross salaries of employees. And if I continue to ask myself, why are Slovenians looking for employment in neighbouring countries? In fact, due to the high share of gross wage taxes, the net amount is lower and in fact the earnings in Slovenia are significantly lower than in other European countries. That is why our young people are actually leaving for a job in neighbouring European countries. To solve these two problems, it is said to relieve the economy and to increase the net earnings of each employee, a general tax relief has been prepared in this law. If we look at further examples from practice, we can ask ourselves why there are still a lot of real estate in Slovenia. The real estate is blacked out because taxation is disproportionately high and, consequently, in this proposal, the real estate tax is reduced from 25 percentage points to 15 percentage points. This law also touches pensioners on how to raise the proportion of the pension. A so-called senior work is being introduced, which reduces the tax rate for all pensioners over 70 years, to EUR 1,000 500 per year. This is about a significant increase in pensions themselves. If in practice I also ask myself: why have sports clubs started selling over the last two years? Due to the fact that donations for sport in Slovenia are overtaxed. In this law it is reduced to two percentage points. In practice, then, if I look at the highest income class falling from 50 % to 45 %, the most critical of which is the criticism. In fact, we know the practice of managers and owners lowering their basic salary, but they increase [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	I'm sorry, time's up. As the last reported debater has the word Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The fact of raising general relief is that it is the greatest or greatest gift to all the richest or those who receive the highest income in this country, which unfortunately will have to be paid again by those workers who receive the lowest income. When it comes to speaking, it should be pointed out that this law is in fact one of the most harmful laws that have been brought into this national assembly. Tax reform will increase inequality among people. Tax reform will also impoverish the state budget and other public treasury, which is a fact, as this has already been discussed quite a bit. And most importantly, the aspects discussed today – this tax reform will not have any positive macroeconomic effects. The fact is that this law wants or clearly states, presupposes that those who have the most will have even more, those who already have little, but will actually pay for those who get the most and are already in fact in some kind of privilege. If I take these infamous 800 million that are supposed to happen at the annual level, then that will be the amount of this debt in the budget. For these 800 million people, 9 thousand public non-profit apartments, 10 infectious clinics and about 100 new homes of older citizens could indeed be built. From this point of view, such projects would be much more appropriate, in terms of ensuring social security for all, as well as a better anti-crisis measure than this law, which, unfortunately, you have now passed or even tabled, you have presented to us. I really hope he won't be accepted. Mr Pollar had previously made a very good point regarding the congregation work. Those small congregations that are already living and are at the brink of survival will, in fact, receive even less in their budget registers. What's the problem? The government statements that I have heard since Minister Shirtzl at the outset that this anticipated cost-of-work burden will have a positive impact on economic growth and increase competitiveness, create new jobs and increase consumption and thereby eliminate the negative public financial effects of the tax reform over a long period of time are actual sanding in the eyes, in particular those who already have the least or least of that tax reform. Basically, once again, this is actually the law written for the richest in our society, and the peak. Yeah. This is not a law that is intended for those who have the smallest income or have the least in our society, it is a law, once again, that is written only for those who are the richest or also the most powerful in our society and for the self - called real estate barons that have been spoken of so much lately. I won't personally support it, and we won't support it in Levica either, because I think [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	I'm sorry you're out of time, too. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Mrs. Maja Hostnik Kališek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for the Income Act is intended to relieve the income of employees, because we want to help both the population and the economy. Measures make work more attractive and give businesses the opportunity to create more demanding jobs that affect added value. We will also improve competitiveness by reducing the tax cap by about 4 percentage points at the time when the overall relief will increase to €7 000,500. Indirectly, when we raise wages, we also influence the saving of individuals, which strengthens the lending capacity of banks, and thus opens up opportunities for businesses to allow them better and easier access to investment funds. As has already been said today, the macroeconomic situation in 2021 is improving significantly. This is also the case in 2022 and 2023. We must be aware that Slovenia's fiscal policy is focused on recovery and sustainable growth in the coming years, and this proposal also encourages individuals through higher net wages, which enables recovery after the epidemic, and provides businesses with the possibility of providing adequate wages to workers in high-productive places, thereby increasing added value to businesses and at the same time increasing investment. Actual data also show that in the first nine months of this year, the state budget recorded around 7.2 billion revenues, about 14% more than in the same period last year. In doing so, income from income increased by 10% or 214 million euros. Comparative data from 2019 also show an increase in both total income and tax revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please sign up by pressing the microphone key, in which case she gets the word as the last. I'm asking you to sign up. We have six panellists registered. Each one gets five minutes. Vojko Starović, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Tonight I am going to celebrate the day of sovereignty that takes place in Cyprus, and I am surprised at this government, all together, that we are wasting this sovereignty that we have gathered. One of the foundations of sovereignty is the financial independence of the state. During a period of time, we had experienced that Slovenia owed from 17 billion to 43 billion, 2004-2008. Then we needed a whole period of time to come to our senses, and we've barely begun to reduce all this suffocation to 60%, and here we are, the epidemic has overwhelmed us. But we still owe each other! Here I listen to colleagues who say: “The government gives.” Where does the government come from?Oh, my God! By making debts. You know there's so much less war today, because the world and the areas are being conquered by borrowing countries. It's a debt. These countries are then dependent. We have paid over a billion a year, including a billion 300 in recent years for interest. That's so much money! Instead of giving it for the hospitals, for the military, for whatever we need, a billion 300 left a year when we got into these problems. Do you think it's cheap money now that we can just be in debt? This money will have to be returned one day. But they're already starting to grow interest. Tomorrow, tomorrow, in 10, 20 years, when this money has to be returned, we'll have no idea what it is and we'll have to recommit ourselves. Only the previous government managed to make a positive budget, that there was something left and that we could repay the debts. I think that any reduction in the country's revenue and additional debt to this account is seriously unrealistic and questions the sovereignty of our country. Because what we've been through, I don't want to experience anymore – that we had to sell things under the Muse, our financial institutions and other institutions and companies under the Muse alien! Under the mousse and we supported it. We have our own country, we have sovereignty, we take care of its treasury, not to dig. Let's not be gravediggers of public finances. What the Fiscal Council points out and what they point out is that we should be taught not to do so. Simply, if they're offering us money, we owe ourselves, one day we'll have to return it – what are we going to do? With this proposal, we are reducing our country's revenues. It's not some foreign country. We give money to others through interest and we lose our sovereignty. On the day of sovereignty, we are discussing such things that I think are truly unthinkable, incomplete and extremely harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a good greeting! It was said that we were wasting our sovereignty. Slovenia saved EUR 17 million on the last loan due to negative interest. So much for when Slovenia owes itself to Alenka Bratušek at a 7% interest rate and when it owes itself to Janez Janša at a negative interest rate. And so much about this on the day of sovereignty, when all European macroeconomic indicators show that Slovenia is reducing public debt. As far as the law is concerned. In a normal country, all 90 Members would support the 11 solutions we have in the Income Act. We hear all the time about how people need to be given more money and how the country is rich or takes too much money than the one with the average wage, and not least what happens primarily under the left governments, when those who want to have maybe three times the average salary run away to Austria, Italy, or I can also say from personal experience in Dubai and other exotic countries, where they are happy to have young Slovenians who want to make a lot of money, and they also expect a successful payment that is paid to them in Slovenia. I'm not going to touch all the other stuff, and I'm going to go down on the matter of income. Today we have heard how we must not put anywhere from the state budget. I will listen with interest to the discussions in the next marriage, when the KUL coalition throws 1.3 billion to the construction barons. But they're against it in this marriage. Do not allow someone on average salary in 2022 at an annual level of €260 or in 2025 when this law is to enter into force 100 per cent, a thousand euros at an annual level. This is the social democracy in the midst of trade unions, which is opposed to someone with an average salary in 2025 getting a thousand euros more after this law is finally implemented. Today we are hearing about ugly capitalists, rather than hearing about ugly unionists who do not allow people with an average salary of higher income. Today, we are talking about people who create, but they are thinking about whether we would still be creating in Slovenia or creating somewhere else where the country would not already take 50% of them, and we are aware that this is not just 50% taken by the state of income, but some other taxes are calculated to take 67% of the country's high-paying people. In short, instead of going in the direction of a slimer state and richer people's wallets, we have in the National Assembly today even representatives of people or voters who say that someone with a minimum wage or someone with an average salary or someone with a three-fold average salary or no longer deserves to be taken by the state that the state has yet to take them. That's what my colleague Susana Pretty Šimenko said before, we're one for giving to people, and the other for just looking at how to take people away. Your Honor, I'm going to finish with what I started. Don't ask yourself, you who have a lot of ideas in the opposition, where we're going to take what we promised, in the opposition, we're also doing when we're in the coalition. And that is, we want to give people higher wages. The Income Act is the basic reason why people can afford higher wages, so I will gladly support this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you. Unfortunately, there's no replica in time-sharing. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. What I had heard before was that with sovereignty I did not know what we had gained — we gained financial sovereignty and even final sovereignty as a country. You know very well, and even those who discussed it earlier well know what the economy in the former South was like, that it was totally collapsing, decomposed, and that the country was in charge to the end. All the way. Without the debt, I could no longer finance it, so it all fell apart, could not exist and no longer exist. When we have a good tax reduction law ahead of us, which we are constantly talking about – constantly, like you and me, keep talking, let us raise wages, let us help to raise wages, wages are too taxed. You talk about it all the time. We're all talking about it, all the employees, all of Slovenia, we're all talking about it. When the government drafts the bill, and then we stop talking about it and we talk about everything else, about the proletariat, about social problems, about the poor, about the orphans, I don't know, about the rich, in short, about the words you don't choose at all. And by doing so, of course, you do harm to the economy in Slovenia. If you want us to keep chopping on the spot, then let's keep it the way it is. Then it's for the best. Or we can raise some taxes a little bit further, or we can give everyone the same salary, all the employees regardless of their education, no matter how much someone knows what they want to do. We're going to make a socialist equalizer, and that's what we're all going to be happy about. Then we'll see how long it takes. That's how you imagine it, and that's what you want. We are primarily working with this law to raise wages so that net wages can be higher. This needs to be told ten times, a hundred times, and everyone is in great expectation that this will finally happen. Taxation of grants for sport. We keep talking about it, the final solution is ahead. Higher pensions and so on. You say that the government is indebted to the government – yes, with zero interest rates, unlike you, who are in charge of high interest, for billions. But don't talk about where you put that money. But not to the people of the economy. But not to people in the economy, which is what this government is doing, which is hurting you. You were in debt, but where did you put the money? In bank holes, in a tycoon, in a particular medium, that you can advertise yourself, that what is now being done in the country is being done to non-productive NGOs. In short, the money went out and it broke and there was nothing to it. Nothing. When the government commits itself today, it is clear exactly where each euro goes. And what's going on today? Hospitals are being held, health homes are being updated, kindergartens, schools, road infrastructure, railway infrastructure are being built, the police, which you have completely stored, have arranged for the Slovenian Army, which you have fully stored and prepared to go almost to bankruptcy every moment, if I may say so. And now things are getting better. It is happening, economic growth is the highest in Europe, it is the least unemployment. Take a look at your indexes. This is when it began to happen in the country and also through taxes it then returns to the budget. If you think you're going to do what you do when you're doing a rich country and poor people, then you won't. May the rich be a poor country. I also do not understand how some trade unions, which, of course, are very left politically profiled and also very motivated, especially those that originate from the old days, Yugoslav, against raising wages for workers, raising salaries for employees, and against repairing pensions. I just can't understand it, and a lot of people don't understand it. I hope that there will be some sobriety and some healthy farm smartness that we will all be able to support this law together and finally go to Slovenia in the direction of the developed modern European countries. Not that we're going to be creaking on the spot, taxing people and throwing money away with a shovel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the new Income Law because it regulates what we've been talking about for years. As opposition Members, we have repeatedly tabled laws proposing to increase overall facilitation. Of course, we have not been successful in the opposition, but we can do so now that we are leading the coalition. Not only because I know that wages in Slovenia are too low and that people deserve more for the work they do, but also because wages in Slovenia are among the highest taxed. And the whole time we talk about why the economy is in a difficult situation is that the worker in Slovenia is too expensive. By this law, the amendment of the law gave up part of the funds that the State collects for its needs, or we will say for the needs of the country, and then we will finance the various things. The gradual rise in the general relief provided by the law, from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 500 by 2025, means once again that the salaries will be higher because the state has given up one part of the funds that would otherwise go into the budget and would then spend them for various purposes. Why is that important? In Slovenia we meet people's daily departures abroad mainly due to wages. It's mostly the wages. Many, with their education and with their work, earn significantly less than their colleague with the same education, with the same work experience in neighbouring Austria or in other countries. People who would generally prefer to work at home then choose to go abroad in such a situation. All the time, as one of the key problems, we expose the brain drain, and we point out that the most educated and quality people are going abroad. When the government responds to this proposal, you are against it. I don't understand. Even less I understand that the unionists, who should in principle fight for higher wages, have to fight. They are offended, however, because the proposal was prepared without much coordination. But it didn't work out with them because they left the negotiations. Because they don't want to coordinate, because only what they bring is good for them. Apparently they're offended because they're not there and they didn't say, but now we're gonna do it. They're out of negotiations. Let me remind you that some of the past governments have not organised the Economic and Social Council at all and have coordinated with employers and employees of various laws. When the government of Janez Janša worked, we always stressed that social dialogue was important, and we also organised that both employers and employees discussed the laws. Some of you have said that we only burden the richest, which is not true. You know well that if the general ease is lifted, this is true for everyone, from the first to the last employee in this country. We heard we'd be in debt and so on. Slovenia is in charge, but is in essentially less than other countries in the euro area. You're telling us what to do and what's right and what's wrong. Let me remind you that when you took power in 2009, already in March, three months after the elections, we had a budget balance with which you increased spending by 20%. That's why we had to take Zuyf into the other government and save money. Since it was necessary then with the arrival of Borut Pahor and Thursday – what was it already, the KGB? – or three, because I don't remember to fix things anymore. As soon as you arrived, you increased your consumption by 20%. Again, what was that all about? I mean, if we were building old people's homes and schools that way, nobody would get upset, but you didn't do it. I think we need a little thought and a little sober judgment on what matters to this country. I suggest you're part of this because [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, many demagogies have been expressed in every way in the sense that we raise people's wages and so on. Respected and respected, the greatest possible error is that wage policies or investments in the economy are governed by tax policy. Today's law and some other attempts you tried to make months ago only does one thing – it rewards capitalists and capital. Excuse me, Madam Jeraj, and all the predecessors from SDS and New Slovenia, you keep stressing and falsely deceiving that wages will rise for all. You may be right in one piece, they will rise for everything, but for those with a minimum wage for a few cents, for those who earn 3,000 or more today, and huge, for a few hundred euros. This is a problem and we remind the Social Democrats of that. On the other hand, for the country, this will be a major budget flaw, a major housing flaw. Mr Lisec had previously pointed out that in a few minutes we will begin to consider the law on the construction of 10,000 rental apartments. If this is for you, Mr. Lisec, encouragement – what did you say? – construction barons, I'm sorry. Young people, the Republic of Slovenia need more rental apartments and therefore we need money, not to relieve capitalists. And if we are talking about tax changes, we need to work this out in full. Thus, if we are to relieve wages, it is necessary to tax the capital that is under-averagely taxed in Slovenia. It is necessary to pay additional taxes on those who accumulate real estate. Is that what this law solves? No, on the contrary. You would also give tax exemptions to the capital. Sorry, that's unacceptable. I repeat, because there will be no confusion. Indeed, wages may be raised on paper to all, but they are the most elevated to those who already have enough today, and there is no need for the public treasury to pay them for tax cuts. So you work for capital, you work for capitalists, not for people. The worst thing is, the most worrying thing is that I've been listening to four hours of orchestrated union assault. This reminds me of some other times, the times of the rise of fascism, when the ruling policy, along with capital, attacked unions and blamed unions for everything bad in society. What happened then, and we all know it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democrats of this law will not be supported. We are social Democrats against the fact that at the expense of social rights, at the expense of the public sector, public services in some way are relieved and pay the wages of capitalists and those who already earn a substantial over-average wage and can live well with such a tax policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Like the last one gets the word Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I must say that this debate on the balance sheet, and so on, is simply not digestible at this time. It is certain that if you were to be satisfied with the communist and all these systems that you are talking about, where such and other things are concerned, people would not be satisfied, they would not fail. We wouldn't fail, we would have communism in Slovenia today. Why not? If people had made that choice. But when we were alone in 1990, we told people we were getting out of this system. And we're going out of this system in order to live a better and better life, so we don't smuggle coffee across the border, so that we don't get examined for a kilo of rice whole, women had to strip off naked because of a kilo of rice and so on and so forth. That's why we left that system. That's why. I would ask that those who debate here in Parliament today get a little more familiar with certain matters and then comment. Because they don't know that, and I'm from home, and I know what it was like. And what's unacceptable is that this is not how society and its future are built. Now I will return to this law – I will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. I will support him for the next reason. With this law, we want to help everyone, all of us. The heroes you're talking about working for just one narrow group, it's a complete deception and a complete lie. 2025 will raise the net on the verge of survival, trade and so on, to workers with an average salary or to those employed, which we are always talking about, on the verge of survival, trade, and so on, who have the wages they have, at the annual level for about a thousand euros. Now ask those people and the socialists the SD party Left and so on, or they don't want to have a thousand euro net salary on the annual level anymore. And that's what this marriage brings! This marriage brings this to everyone, the last one. And don't tell me! Definitely for one more, for the other less. I'm just saying one thing. One graduate engineering engineer, who runs the entire research group, does he deserve a decent payment for his work and won't look for it, as the highly educated youth say, I'm going to Austria, I'm going to Germany, I'm going to Great Britain, because I'm not going to work here for this pay, so I'm not going to take the big responsibility, and there I get the right payment, so it's worth it and I'm going out? That is why we are abandoned by young people, and that is why the intelligence of Slovenia leaves us, and it is harmful for the country, and in some ways it has to be stopped. I can with legislation, I can with any other decision, but the fact is, we have to keep the brain running. People who have and are able to work and help at the highest level in the development of Slovenia should be kept in their own country, in our country, that is, the country of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, today one of the discussers said: "We had a responsible policy." And I ask the KUL coalition who said that when we took over the leadership of this country, we had 100,000 unemployed – is this a responsible country? We had 8.7 negative economic growth – is this a responsible country? We practically did not build one home for the elderly – is this a responsible country, a responsible policy? Nothing has been invested in health care – is this a responsible policy, a responsible country? We are almost failing our defence system, our subsystems, I am talking about subsystems – is this a responsible country and a responsible policy? Look how many years you've been there and what you've done. This government works exclusively for people, for each individual. We want people in our society, our citizens and citizens to enjoy living here, to create here, to not leave our country just because they are not paid fairly and fairly. I'm just going to say one more sentence about migrants employed in Austria. I come from that area, from the Municipality of Šentilj, Pesnica, Kungato and so on. In 2004-2008, the government of Janez Janša adopted a tax relief of EUR 7 000 500 and virtually no longer paid the difference, as they now have to pay. And where are we taking this story? 2025 will receive an increase of EUR 7 000 500 in income relief. We will come into a situation to help them, and our people will be pleased, including those who are employed in Slovenia, both will have the most of these. One euro won't have to be paid for. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. Ten. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law on the promotion of public housing. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Mark Koprivec. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of the First-signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Koprivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The fact is, we have a housing crisis in Slovenia. If we are in the last days or, say, to this week's witnesses to enormous irritations of energy and food, we can claim that this trend has been present in the area of housing for quite some time, either rent or purchase. For the prices of apartments are rising year after year, many, I hope, because of rents or loans that cannot be paid, cannot solve their housing problem in any way. Even so, respectable and respected that we have a clear mandate in Article 78 of the Constitution that, I quote, "states create opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing". However, the State has no longer carried out its tasks of providing suitable housing for its residents and residents in the right way. Instead of an active housing policy, we left the housing issue to the market, and the market grew wild, vampirized, and now it serves only the renters and the profiteers. That is why we now have record prices of real estate that young people and the working middle class cannot afford. After the share of apartments for rent, we are on the tail in the European Union and wider. Recent research shows that in Slovenia, according to the average gross salary of people, real estate is one of the most expensive in Europe. The covid crisis has also shown that we cannot and must not leave the market alone to solve the housing problem. There are increasing calls, from the monument to the housing crisis to the Renting SOS, for major changes to be made in the area of housing. It is therefore crucial that the country intervenes on the market with an active housing policy. Slovenia is far less committed to housing policy than on average in the EU, so we need to increase the funds to build public rentals and start implementing an active housing policy. Social Democrats, together with the partners in the democratic opposition, are therefore proposing to adopt a law that will ensure the construction of 10,000 new public rental apartments. In the period from 2023 to 2029, we want to spend €300 of public funds in the form of grants and repayments and state guarantees for the construction of public rental apartments, so that Slovenia can obtain new 10,000 rental apartments. The law is prepared to assume that on average the rent for a new 65 m2 apartment in Ljubljana does not exceed 350 euros per month. In writing this law, we have followed the example of a successful active housing policy, which has been being implemented for decades by social-democrats in Vienna. We would like to see a social democratic model of public housing supply in Slovenia as well. The law we are proposing introduces a public service for the construction, renovation or purchase of public rental apartments, long-term leases and the necessary mechanisms and levers for the execution of the public service, i.e. the establishment of public rental apartments, provides incentives in the form of non-refundable resources, return resources and loan guarantees, until the state implements a sustainable system source related to tax revenues. The call for housing will be open to competition by a range of public service providers, such as legal entities controlled by the State or local communities, such as housing funds and public companies and housing cooperatives. We propose that the common non-profit nature of action must be common to all. At the same time, we propose the adoption of a two-year instruction period for the legalisation of a permanent, purposeful and systemic source of public housing financing in Slovenia and thus the finalisation of the Vienna model of public housing construction in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law, we want to offer people a public alternative to a market rent or expensive purchase, because we are convinced that the apartment should be a right and not a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Robert Rožac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, will present the Government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Today we are considering the proposal for a law promoting the construction of public rental apartments. According to the proposaler, the aim of the law is to build 10,000 public rental apartments by 2029, with the projected financial implications for the state budget estimated at €1 billion and €300 million. The proposal in its core mainly discusses the incentives of contracting public service providers, while the public service, which is supposed to be the essence of the law, is not regulated in more detail. In explaining the public service, the proposal refers to the Law on Economic Public Services, which governs economic public services and not public services, which are carried out through public institutions. Understanding the effects of the law is hampered by terminology inconsistencies. The terms shall be exchanged in a non-profit and non-profitable manner. As a source of funds, the guarantees, secondly the loans secured by the guarantee, are once mentioned. It is also exchanged about investors, investors and beneficiaries of incentives. We run into several other terms that the existing sectoral legislation does not know, and the proposal does not define or explain them. From the point of view of the implementation of the provisions, we point out a calculation of the rent which is not clearly presented or consistent with the calculation of the non-profit rent as set out in the Housing Law. There are also insufficient public tenders for the selection of tenants, the eligibility criteria for housing and the way in which eligibility is checked. The same applies to housing cooperatives that do not fall under this law. We are also stressing the systemic tax source, which is expected to replace budgetary resources for the implementation of the law within two years. It is recalled that property taxation must, in accordance with the Constitution, provide for other sources of financing for local needs. With the proposed provision of funds, the State would, as we understand it, transfer all financial obligations for the purpose of the construction of public rental apartments to the municipalities. Shortcomings are quite something. In the written opinion, the Government shall be specified in more detail. Come in. The government has adopted a amendment to the Housing Law and has already established the conditions with which to strengthen the public housing fund. We adjusted the amount of the non-profit rent and adjusted the subsidy, established the implementation of the public rental of apartments and raised the threshold for the borrowing of housing funds. In this way, by 2026, we will be able to obtain 5,000 new ones and activate another 2,000 existing unoccupied dwellings, which is, by all means, comparable to the effects of the bill that we are considering today. Finally, let me mention that the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana has up to 29. 10th open call, where I think 450 apartments will be offered. Today, however, it opens or is in the process of opening 500 apartments of the Republic Housing Fund in Brdo. The government does not support the bill in particular because it assesses that it is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Good-bye! Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State shall create opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing. They say the paper carries everything and the problem arises when things need to be realized or actually implemented. Whether we admit it or not, today is a difficult time for young people to go to school by the age of 30 because they hope to find a decent job by means of higher education, and they have a decent salary to afford, among other things, housing, houses, and weekends. Many young people, especially those who are unemployed, live favorably in their mother’s hotel after 30 years, although they want to become independent as soon as possible, find a job, and solve their housing problem. Not much has been done in the last decade to deal with this acute situation of housing problems. True, there was much talk, debate, and writing about this at every coming election, but then the fine words of entering the threshold of the National Assembly seemed to be opening up to some emptyness. If we put the matter on balance, we have too little housing for young people on the one hand, and on the other hand a few empty, abandoned apartments, including in a village, a rural needing renovation, rehabilitation to be suitable again. Slovenia is a small country, so in the Slovenian National Party we do not understand why it is difficult for some young people, full of energy and elena, to drive to work, to work, if they could easily live a little outside of Ljubljana, and they would be surrounded by unspoiled nature. Sustainable mobility, the use of public passenger transport is also promoted, so we do not see a problem here, only a little more time would take them all together. It bothers us to make some flat-rate calculations for a particular square, rent again in Ljubljana, as if the proponents did not know that there are other municipalities and municipalities besides the capital, where it would also be necessary to provide construction. The opinion was given only by the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor. These two support the proposals' solutions to increase the number of public rentals. Where are the cities and congregations left? They're gone. From the latter, at least we can understand that we need 600 public rental apartments in Maribor by 2025. And a well-maintained apartment for the elderly would be useful. The goal of providing 10,000 public rental apartments does not tell us much, but we agree that this sounds good, or they are already sharing candy with future voters. In the Slovenian National Party, we lack specific information on who the beneficiaries are, where and when they will be built. The table only shows the extent of state guarantees, repayments and grants. We agree that apartments must be at affordable, low prices so that most people can afford them, without having them for bread, as they say at home. What we see today is being built in Ljubljana, some fancy business and residential buildings such as the Šumi in the centre of Ljubljana, is only for selected elites, petitioners, a high society with higher average Slovenian salaries. But we agree it'll be nice to see it. That I don't even lose words about the price of rent. If the average middle-class family in Ljubljana cannot afford an apartment, it can be a little outside, unless it is in the interest of giving them all the money for rent and then living in a month without money. The state budget's grants to meet higher building standards on energy savings seem to us a good solution. The bill also provides for the possibility of granting a building right, whether paid or unpaid, where payment would be possible for a longer period of time. If we want young people to make decisions about families, because our nativity is falling sharply and then move away from home, it is appropriate to have a valid Housing Law, which establishes the conditions for strengthening the public housing fund. In the Slovenian National Party, we consider the law to be very populism, like, but at the same time perfect, flawed and unclear. If we encourage the construction of public rental apartments, let us give priority to building our Slovenian citizens with knowledge and rich experience, and let us only pay them honestly and we will all be more than satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! In the right center, we are working on what we promise in the opposition. On the other hand, the current opposition now promises what it cannot or does not want to do when it is in power. For the introduction to today's law, I have before me a table on the proportion of subsidised leases per European country. First of all, Slovenia. So much for how the state doesn't care about this area. Today, in the law, we forget that on 26 May this year, we adopted 52 votes in favour and one vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law. This law has a strong influence on what the KUL coalition now wants to promise for the next elections. What do these changes in the law that have not been media-driven as they wish to do with today's bill? The Republic Housing Fund will provide almost 2 000 400 new apartments by 2023, and this will increase with the amendment of the law. The law has brought better conditions for an increase in the public housing fund, a sustainable housing policy, a fair non-profit rent and more housing funds. The law also regulated the harmonisation of the amount of the non-profit rent while adapting the system of subsidisation of the rent with the aim of protecting socially vulnerable tenants. This law has also established a Public Employment Service established to activate an existing but uninhabited housing fund. Next. The law also made it possible to increase the indebtedness of housing funds. Very important but unfortunately overheard – The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was granted a preliminary right to sell habitable municipal land for multi-residential construction. In short, we already know in the introduction that we did what the KUL Coalition promises by this law with the law of May this year, in which we did not receive the votes of the KUL coalition. We no longer need public and rentable apartments, we only need more order and enforcement of what this government has prepared in the Housing Law, and this coalition has also adopted. Speaking of flat issues. We had one point back in the government's income law to relieve the rent income from falling from 27.5% to 15%. In short, more apartments would be broadcast, meaning fewer empty apartments and on the other hand a much greater chance of avoiding what we are witnessing too often, which is broadcasting in black. But we've been listening for almost four hours to the KUL coalition's defeat, what a lame move this is. And the next item is their marriage. In addition to arranging 2 000 400 new apartments, we can see what this coalition, the KUL Coalition, which promises 10,000 new apartments by 2029, did when it was in power from 2015 to 2019. The Republic Housing Fund together built or acquired 340 apartments. Now all of a sudden he wants 10,000 new ones. The fact that this law is unnecessary also indicates that housing policy is included in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, that it already provides funds, on the basis of EUR 60 million. To regulate the area of housing and construction spatial legislation, the fact that we have in the procedure the Construction Law and the Law on the regulation of space also states. The Law on Spatial Planning will allow municipalities to adopt municipal spatial and municipal spatial detailed plans more quickly, and by means of the Construction Law we throw away all those anomalies, especially bureaucratic ones, unfortunately also financial nonsense, from the area of housing construction. In short, the government itself wrote down that by 2023 it would have built 2,000,400 apartments. From this point of view, the call, on behalf of the SDS Group, to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to invite all municipalities to check where they have the possibility of building multi-housing buildings in some municipal plans to resolve these housing funds and individual municipalities. In short, we will not talk, as is obviously the intention of this law, about the construction of public non-profit apartments in Ljubljana, but also to look outside the Ljubljana road corridor. What Ljubljana wants at public rental prices, for example, is in Sevnica at market prices. All those you want to build in Ljubljana at the beginning of your career or family policy, go outside Ljubljana. You won't believe it, it's much cheaper, and I can tell you, it's even much nicer, not just to build, but to live. The fact that the Housing Law of this coalition is not only good is also evident from the fact that at the end of February this year the Government approved the business policy of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which means 5,000 rental apartments by 2025. This government builds Slovenia, changes laws and confirms the business policy of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, 5,000 rental apartments. That is why we are not only skeptical in the SDS Group but also believe that this law is not the right basis for further consideration. Finally, in preparation for this law, we received quite a few e-mails from the SDS Group, which went mainly in two directions. One is whether we will allow people from Ljubljana – so we have received – to support the real estate barons. Finally, they even circulate lists of how individual housing funds share new rental apartments. Is it really about young families or is it just about future, potential KUL coalition voters? I don't want to be racist, but just look at the first page of the call for proposals of the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and you will find it very clear – whether we are talking about young families or maybe housing policies that touch more electoral legislation than anything else. In the SDS Group, we hope that it does not hold that the biggest supporters of this law by the KUL Coalition are actually the private largest and richest real estate owners themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. What my colleague had afforded before me was racist, in my opinion. Which defines the last names. But okay, I'm used to having the wrong last name. Now let's go to the subject we should be discussing, and these are young people. There are not many of them in our society, but there are a hundred percent of our country's future. With this awareness, our society needs to recognize young people as one of the key potentials of the future to be invested in, even for the better tomorrow of older generations and generations to come. We need to be aware – all of us, there is no division here – that housing policy is an important part of youth empowerment. It is up to us today to see what the future will be like for young people and what our age will be tomorrow. For example, what kind of pensions will we have if I only mention this area? It's a circle we shouldn't ignore. This is Slovenia's intergenerational solidarity when the active population takes care of children and youth on the one hand and on the other hand for the older population, and when the active population retires, it is replaced by a young generation. This circle repeats itself, this is the meaning of the model of a solidarity society, a model of paying taxes if you want. It is therefore necessary to take action and put the independence of young people at the top of the country's priority. How do we do that? First time. We need to provide them with a modern public education system that will be able to meet emerging challenges, such as new technologies, as much self-sustainment as possible with energy, food, drinking water care and all other challenges posed by climate change, and the resolution of demographic trends in migration and so on. Another time. Ensure conditions for modern and stable jobs, including by creating an environment that promotes youth creativity. Third time. Ensure a sufficient number of public non-profit rental apartments with very low rent, lower than today. However, the difference to the cost rent should be borne by the State in the budget. In our view, rental apartments must be built and also purchased on the market. This last one is also proposed today by the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Construction of Public Rental Apartments, which complements or makes it more operational. And the Housing Law isn't bad. Of course, he doesn't take into account everything he's supposed to, but he's a good foundation. This law, which we are proposing today, is being upgraded or given more operational power. It should be borne in mind that the problem of housing is not only young and socially weak, but also a generation of middle-aged people living in apartments with market rents or paying for high housing credit. But if this middle generation still has children, it will not be able to help them to their homes, to their retired parents who can no longer care for themselves or care for themselves, not to cities in their homes or to protected homes. These, too, are hardships we must not overlook. But since we probably don't want to build everything up, there's a call to think about some kind of generation mobility. What does that mean? To say, the elderly in exchange for a publicly rented apartment, a bibian community, or paying home for the elderly, give their young family their home, their apartment through a public rental service. Of course, all of this has financial implications, but in the LMŠ we are convinced that the rapid independence of young people is a condition for a society of knowledge, development and tolerance and solidarity. We are also convinced that not every debt is problematic. What matters is what the state is in charge of. If it is responsible for public investment in infrastructure, i.e. for the construction of public rental apartments for young people and protected for the elderly, this is entirely appropriate. Since it is a generator of economic growth and employment promotion, it also has extremely large multiplier effects on society. I would even say that this is not even a debt, but an investment — investing in the future of our country, in young people, or in people. If the Government makes a quick donation of EUR 780 million for weapons without the possibility of a referendum during the health crisis, then I see no reason or reason to think about investing in people who will actively build our immediate future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Dear Vice President, distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague, one good day! Research has shown for several years that more and more young individuals and young families are unable to reach their properties or apartments that could be rented. If young people once solved the housing problem soon after finishing their education, they are not able to do so. What's going on in the real estate market, we can all see. The prices of new buildings go up to the sky, which means that young people can't afford to buy real estate. The rent prices for apartments and individual rooms on the market are also unheard of. Being young and creating a family and living in Slovenia is at least not easy right now. You might even say that young people do not see a way out of the problem of finding real estate. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided that something must be done in this area immediately. We have decided to legislate in the legislative process, along with the other co-signatories, on the promotion of the construction of public rental apartments and thereby contribute significantly to the resolution of the problem. What solutions and goals does our marriage have? The law aims to build 10,000 public rental apartments, create the necessary financial resources and guarantees, facilitate access to housing and increase housing mobility. The law is prepared according to the example of other countries, where the same or similar system works more than well, and the law and its contents have also been assisted by various acquaintances of the subject. The fact that more and more young people are staying at home and moving out of Slovenia is also due to the absence of apartments that could be purchased or rented. The Social Democrats, together with the other signatories, are convinced that the marriage proposal we have tabled is the solution to the situation in our country. By building public rentals, we will not only solve one problem, but will also solve the remaining few problems and situations resulting from the lack of or access to real estate. The state must ensure that its citizens have access to real estate and that they can create a family and a life. Housing is a right and not a problem, as is unfortunately the case in Slovenia over the last few years. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are convinced that our proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, chairman. On 27 September this year, a spark of hope was sparked in Berlin for all young people across Europe who suffer from lack of their own roof, for all young people who cannot reach their homes. At that time, the Berlin referendum voted to nationalise 240 000 corporate-owned apartments and to turn these apartments into public non-profit apartments. The great victory of the housing movement, which I think should be heard and reflected in our case. With us, the situation is as acute or even more acute as the one in Berlin, which encouraged a referendum on the nationalisation of corporate housing. For 30 years we have not had a housing policy in this country, and there are two consequences. On the one hand, there was a concentration of existing housing capacities. We have ten barons, 50 apartments in our own. Does anyone in this country really need a few ten apartments for their survival? No, of course not. This is an accumulation of housing simply to treat them not as human rights, but as a resource, as a capital from which to create new capital, as a resource for business. And rents fly into the sky. So today, young people are the victim of the absence of housing policy, first of all in the way of paying, especially in Ljubljana, where the grip is the greatest, tremendously high rents charged by wearers. No, we don't talk about some older people living alone in a house, some grandmother giving away her room. This is quite useful and welcome. We are talking about individuals who have accumulated apartments as capital and for them students, other young people, their families are getting fat bills so that these people can survive at all. However, it is often the case of individuals who cannot even get to regular employment, who are caught in unsustainable leisure activities, usually as workers who are reprimanded in essays. Moreover, these dwellings are not only channelled as private capital for private gain, but also further into legal forms of various companies, especially for short-term purposes, and then end up on different platforms such as Airbnb. I repeat, only so that the rags behind this type of housing accumulation can earn money. Another fact is that no matter how much capacity we have in this country and what kind of rent people are forced to pay their owners, these apartments are in themselves lacking. More specifically, the number we've been operating on for several years is that we're missing 10,000 public non-profit apartments. In this area, too, the country has failed, as has already been said to have no housing policy, and the situation has become acute enough to create social movements in us, which are pressing for the construction of housing cooperatives and the construction of public non-profit apartments. The law that we have on the table today is a step in the direction that we can reach these over 10,000 public non-profit apartments in the first place. It mainly provides for repayable funds and guarantees, as well as for direct public funding of EUR 60 million. That is why I say that this is a step in the right direction, not a final solution. According to the proposaler of today's law, these apartments would require €1 billion and €300 million. Compared to this, €60 million is actually spitting into the sea. I think we need to discuss our political priorities for all the parties in the National Assembly. The money of all citizens and citizens is collected in the accounts of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of tax revenue, in order to invest in our common needs. The need for a roof over our heads is our common need, and it is also a fundamental human right. Instead of throwing money into weapons that we don't need – remember, a few months ago, a law was passed that will spend €780 million in the next few years for the purchase of unnecessary weapons – we need to use these funds for the common good in the area of housing crisis as well. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, when we are missing ten thousand, I repeat this number, ten thousand public non-profit apartments, we are no longer talking about a problem or a problem, we are talking about a housing crisis. And that's why the young run away from the country. Not because they would be overtaxed because the young people in this country are not rich, they can't even get to work, they can't even get to an apartment. Politics needs to recognize their plight, reverse their priorities and channel common funds towards the construction of these 10,000 public non-profit apartments. In Levica, we carried out one such action at the beginning of this mandate with the initiative to transfer land suitable for housing to the Republic of Slovenia free of charge from a bad bank, and then to them the Housing Fund builds these apartments, which we urgently need. The second action is on the table today, these are the funds earmarked in a special law that will contribute to the construction of housing. However, I think that we need to increase the number of budgetary funding further, so that we do not remain at €60 million. As we say, we need a billion and 300 million euros for these apartments. Slovenian society is rich enough to afford it, but it is a matter of a political decision whether we do it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u103	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law promoting the construction of public rental apartments that we have on the table today introduces a public service for the construction, rehabilitation or purchase of public housing. State incentives in the form of non-refundable resources, recoverable resources and loan guarantees are foreseen until the State implements a permanent systemic source of housing policy related to budgetary tax revenue. Public service operators or investors may be legal persons with a non-profit nature of operation controlled by the State or local communities and housing cooperatives. Investment firms' projects that receive an individual form of incentives or a combination thereof shall be selected on a public invitation to tender. Projects that provide housing obtained through construction, renovation or purchase to be leased for an indefinite period of rent to be determined in accordance with the Regulation and projects located in settlements within statistical regions that have shown market imbalances between supply and demand for rental apartments may be included. They may also include investment projects that will provide adequate living culture adapted to families, students, older or disabled persons, include an appropriate green and common space on functional land by regulating areas for play, recreation and social activities and will also be financed from the investors' own resources. The proposal provides for additional appropriations totalling EUR 1.3 billion between 2023 and 2029, of which EUR 60 million, EUR 440 million and EUR 800 million of guarantees. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal, since it considers the proposal to be substantive, terminological and implementingly weak, is neither consistent nor consistent with the Housing Law, which regulates housing policy in its entirety and rent relations. Also in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we believe that the proposal for a law does not follow the systemic solutions to strengthen the public housing fund set up by the amendment of the Housing Law, which was adopted on 26 May this year. The main point of the novel of the Housing Law is to stop the trend of the collapse of the Fund of Public Rents and to establish sustainable operating conditions for the Housing Funds. Let me re-emphasize here the main changes brought by the current Housing Law. First time. Harmonisation of the amount of non-profit rent, allowing municipalities and housing funds to operate in a sustainable manner and gradually extend the housing fund. Another time. Adaptation of the subsidisation scheme for the protection of socially vulnerable persons, which ensures that none of the existing recipients of the subsidies will be at a lower level after the level of the rent has been adjusted. Third time. The Housing Act allows municipal housing funds and the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia a significantly higher level of indebtedness to start investing in the acquisition of new public rental apartments. Fourth time. An important part of the Housing Fund is also the existing unoccupied dwellings that will be activated by setting up a public rental service. Five more. The Housing Act also introduces a preliminary right to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the sale of habitable municipal plots for multi-housing construction, which will require that the municipalities of land intended for the construction of multi-housing buildings be offered first to the Housing Fund in the event of sale. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are convinced that the current Housing Law fully regulates housing policy and rental relations and that, with the successful implementation of that novel by 2026, we will be able to build at least 5,000 additional public rental apartments, so the proposal for a law to promote the construction of public rentals does not make sense and today we will not support it. However, we must certainly improve the efficiency of public housing to reflect the real needs of the housing market. Housing must be built, which are affordable and at the same time allow for a high quality of life. Through tax reliefs and specific credit schemes with reduced interest rates, we must encourage the purchase and rental of homes of young families that for the first time solve the housing problem, as well as other vulnerable groups. Public housing cannot be superstandard and affordable. They must be built in urban centres where the needs are greatest, thereby reducing traffic flows and labour migration of the population. In rental transactions, both the lessor and the lessor must be protected. Renting should be encouraged by reducing tax and administrative barriers. It is also necessary to strengthen the construction of student homes. Only a sufficient amount of housing is the best and only measure against the diversification of real estate prices. At the same time, affordable housing must be part of the promise of the welfare of the social market economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u105	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, despite Sursa's data, there are 180 thousand unoccupied apartments, of which there are 24 000 in Ljubljana, 10 000 in Maribor, more than 3 000 in Celje, 5,000 in Koper and 2 000 in Kranj, New Town and Nova Gorica. The prices of apartments and rentals are rising, with an unaltered population. Sursa also reported an increase in the number of unoccupied dwellings. In the last year alone, according to the Statistical Office, real estate prices rose by 9,9 % between the second quarter of 2020 and the second quarter of 2021. In the larger centres today, it is not unusual that an individual for a square meter of 60 years of old real estate, i.e. one that is practically completely amortised, so completely wasted and at the end of the project life, some are also project and earthquake-threatening, pays 4 000 euros and more. This is followed by rents exceeding €500 per month for 30 m2 and €700 for 50 m2 for a large apartment, which should also include operating costs. In the meantime, we must be aware that the average net salary in Slovenia, also increased by co-modules, amounts to EUR 228, of which two thirds of the employees have less than the average. These are alarming data that call for action, since they practically prevent access to goods for those who work as well. On the basis of honest work, basic human needs cannot be met. That is why there is a severe shortage of care in hospitals and pension homes, and the same can happen quickly in the area of education and education. There is a shortage of workers in factories and in craftsmen. We must also ask ourselves what salary and conditions we must provide for highly qualified experts if we are to attract them to Slovenia. Can we be competitive if they have to pay substantially more for renting or buying apartments than in Vienna? How much should such experts receive, and what is the employer’s cost? Many who live in border areas are therefore looking for better profits in neighbouring Austria, as we are also reminded by the recent public call from the hospital in Jesenica, both clinical centres, many homes for pensioners. As a society, we must be aware that the salaries of employees cannot be increased to the extent that abnormal prices on the market can and must be responded to. That is why, together in the opposition, we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a law promoting the construction of public rental apartments. The draft law would establish a budget source for the construction of 10,000 dwellings by 2030 and allow the State to guarantee long-term loans for the construction of 50-year-old public rental apartments. Therefore, the law makes sense of our party's efforts to introduce a guarantee scheme for the State to rent a loan for the purchase of the first apartment. The State guarantee would mean that young people, including many unemployed and regular jobs, can buy real estate. We are working towards the introduction of a housing scheme that would allow young people to rent state-owned apartments first by rent and then buy them out, and all paid rents would be included in the purchase. This would encourage young people to plan their future in Slovenia. In the SAB party, we supported the amendment of the Housing Law last year. At that time, we also called on the competent housing funds to determine and determine the maximum building price of the dwellings on the basis of the cost rent. This would be the basis for establishing the standard and quality of construction. I'm afraid that's not what happened until today. We point out that insurance companies estimate the construction value of the facility at a circus of EUR 1000 200 per square metre, while the costs of purchase and utility of the land range between EUR 100 and EUR 300 per square metre. We expect competent institutions to prepare their own calculations and to approach the construction of rental apartments on their own basis. We also expect them to set up a market review and respond to anomalies in a timely and effective manner. In the Sab party, we are responsible for the anomalies several times we have been alerted. We have noted that reports on the situation and developments in the real estate market are misleading and incomplete and thus distort the picture and constitute a basis for price increases. Experts warn that we are witnessing to a real estate balloon. According to the German central bank, real estate in Germany is overestimated by 30 % in terms of economic and demographic conditions. We both have worse relationships and no warning and response from the institutions. Moreover, young people are encouraged to rent loans of 30 years of age and disproportionately heavy wage burdens. In the SAB Group, we are aware that young people with housing problems cannot develop their potential and face challenges in the future. We will work towards allowing them, through systematic and comprehensive measures, to gain their independence and take the initiative for their future and the future of Slovenia. That is why our aim is to provide at least 500 dwellings for young people at the annual level. In the SAB, we will unanimously support the bill's proposal, because we believe that accounting on an ideological basis on the one hand on the basis of nationality, race, religion or on the other hand on the basis of performance, salary or the amount of property created by an individual is counterproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! For years, the area of housing policy in Slovenia has been seriously neglected. We have come so far that those who feel that we do not have housing policies are not at all so wrong. Housing policy has, in fact, been in the past period, you might say, a lot of places have sat down on their own. This is mainly due to the country's past stepmotherly attitude towards housing regulation and the multi-annual inefficient planning and management of housing policy. Housing is running short, prices are getting higher, and this is what the most vulnerable groups of people and those who are solving their housing issue for the first time. If some expected and predicted that the time of the epidemic would greatly mix the cards and lower prices, of course, this did not happen. The very objective of providing more rental apartments, in particular those of the public, has been to write down a number of governments in the coalition contract. Nor is the current government an exception in this respect, but some concrete solutions from the government are not in sight, and a comprehensive overhaul of the Housing Law, which arose during the ministerial period of the previous minister, is still awaiting the Ministry of Environment and Space. That is why we have decided by the opposition's parliamentary group to take our own steps forward. We have thus tabled into the parliamentary procedure the proposal for a law to promote the construction of public rental apartments, which would allow the construction of 10,000 public rental apartments over the next six years. This is what we want to start solving housing problems in the country, which would help young people who are really the biggest victims, because they are having a hard time affording housing in the current situation. We have one of the lowest shares of rental apartments in the European Union, making it very difficult for young families to have access to suitable housing. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to provide financial resources, loans, guarantees and grants for the construction of as quickly as possible of thousands of rental apartments and to build apartments not only in the capital but also throughout the country. This would also reduce rents to a more reasonable and normal amount. In addition to the construction of new dwellings, the bill also provides for the restoration of existing empty dwellings, which are largely not suitable for housing. So it is an urgent step that will enable young people to move away from home at all, become independent, and make it easier for them to make a family. Although we have taken the first step in this direction in the past mandate by adopting the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for the period 2015-2025. This is one key document to address the housing problem in the future, which creates an active housing policy. The resolution sets out certain objectives that have already been adopted by the public through a wider consensus. These objectives are: balanced supply of suitable housing, easier access to housing, quality and functional housing and greater housing mobility. In order to prepare and implement measures to improve the housing problem of young people, a working group for young people to carry out pilot projects was also established on the basis of the resolution. However, the positive results of these projects will be transposed into housing legislation after the analysis has been carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, there are thousands of people in Slovenia who do not have a settled housing issue, and this number is growing year after year. Housing that is available to people is not enough. Prices are too high, so the country has to cut down on the market. Indeed, the task of the State must be to guarantee housing rights for all. And if this government is directing so much money towards all the other, not so important at the moment, it is necessary to provide funds for public rentals, which are currently one of the most pressing topics in our country. Therefore, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to lead a proactive housing policy, to undertake comprehensive housing reforms and to improve access to all types of housing through long-term and effective measures in this area and to provide adequate financial assistance in the use of housing for all those who cannot afford to pay their own costs. We stress the importance of housing policy with adequate housing to contribute to the protection of the family, the elderly and the disabled and other vulnerable groups. We therefore recommend that the Government focus on improving the conditions for the management of housing buildings and, with appropriate measures, contributes to better quality of housing and the living environment. In the light of energy efficiency and an effective transition to renewable energy, however, we are committed by unrelated Members to finding a solution in the context of the new housing law to the agreement on the establishment of real-law rights in common parts in favour of certain floor owners for the purpose of installing or installing new installations or equipment, i.e. in the case of a solar power plant or, for example, a heat pump. In addition, we want the competent ministry to prepare solutions to the guarantee scheme, which would make it easier for young and young families in particular to resolve the housing issue. We believe that the introduction of a real estate tax would also be part of the solution to the housing problem, which substantially changes the situation on the market. We believe that everyone would then consider whether they would have an empty apartment or not. When we look at statistics, it is clear that more than 20% of the dwellings are uninhabited. In addition, in our parliamentary group, we are committed to reducing the tax on rental income, which is very high, and to introducing an income relief for private lease investments. Consideration should also be given to the introduction of subsidies for the improvement of property leased as regulated in some other European countries. In our view, these measures would encourage owners or lessors to broadcast legally. As a result, we would have a wealthier housing fund, and the money collected would have been spent on the construction of public non-profit apartments. Only when we have more non-profit apartments, when the offer is large enough will the rents on the market go down and become more accessible to a wider crowd. Today's draft law, which would have significantly increased the number of public rents per country over a relatively short period of time, would certainly have contributed to addressing the problem and would have made significant progress in the area that, unfortunately, had been put on the sidelines for many years. This has also been recognised by the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor, where they have long known that the needs for public rental apartments are significantly greater than the current offer. That is why both congregations publicly expressed their support for the Law. We also give our unanimous support to the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, so we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, he'll get the word "Nick Beatil" and then he'll get the mag behind him. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! Before I go to law school, allow me a brief comment on the positions presented by the parliamentary groups. I have listened very closely to these presentations, especially to the coalition Members, and why this does not go against the ugly opposition, and we have written it down and we have written it down. No, it's not. This way and with that purpose things are not written down. I had also listened to the NSI Group of Members before, he said why they did not support all of this and then he added, “but the matter must be settled” and “young people should be taken care of” and “the accommodations should be needed” and so on. I don't understand what the problem is with this marriage. And another thing that really made me laugh a little bit when I heard the thing is when the coalition starts, "It's not arranged systemically." What's the matter with your PKP, please? Have a little laugh here, but good. Yes, some of the goals have been written or written by the Government, but we see well, not just us, not just citizens and citizens, how you and this government respect the laws adopted by this national assembly – worse. So I am not overly optimistic about your promises of respect or what this national assembly has accepted. But here's the thing. This government has done little fighting for young people. I really ask that we do not hear today about the 300 euros that the Government has given to young people within almost two years of the ongoing epidemic. This is a bit insulting to young people who, even during their studies, do not find it difficult to survive their lives. In this law, the housing law, there should be no question when, that is, where the question should only be, how much and when. And that should have been a question 10 years ago because we are very late with housing policy in our country. But we all know where it got stuck — that was the infamous Zuyf, where the whole thing in the country stopped more or less. In the Housing Law, the apartments that young people need are just one part of the things that we need for youth policy in the country, so that young people can make themselves available to contribute to society, to earn money, to spend it too, not least that they will have children, so that Slovenia can be based on anything in the future. So that these people can then stay in Slovenia, have jobs and not go almost everyone who is well-educated and who have something to add in this Slovenia, abroad, because they have better wages, apartments and, of course, significantly better working conditions there. We need to be based on that. This law is just one of the steps that this country must reach in order for young people in Slovenia to prosper. And I think it's a good step. The fact is that there is a shortage of housing in Slovenia. Living with a reasonable rent that young people can pay is practically not available. But I agree with a colleague who said that we don't just want these apartments in Ljubljana. I also wish that apartments are possible everywhere where young people want to create life, but of course the fact that Ljubljana is the capital is some center where most universities are too. Of course, they are also in other major cities and other smaller ones, but there is a higher concentration of young people in Ljubljana. Unfortunately, yes, Ljubljana is the capital and we can't go beyond that. However, I agree that the apartments should also be strengthened outside or around Ljubljana. And, as it is said, the point of this law makes it possible, inter alia, to guarantee the State's long-term responsibility for the construction of rental apartments and the possibility of building apartments with the help of residential cooperatives with participation intended. Well, something like this has happened before in the Housing Law. Among other things, you are now boasting about him here, and in most of the time he was created in the government of Marjana Šarca, you have also pushed some things out and adjusted them as usual. These things have already been there in one part and are of great importance. As long as I sit in this house at the political level and even when and if I don't, I will defend the young. Not just because I'm part of this generation, but because it would be right for all your colleagues to do it. Because their good and innovative solutions, which are also lacking in this house, have led to a better future and are what Slovenia needs. If we don't invest in young people, I don't think it matters very much that we invest in the military, that we invest in the police, that we don't, after all, invest in health. Because if we don't have young people, the staff that would take these jobs, these jobs, they're happy to be occupied, it doesn't help us much anymore. Thinking that some things are wrong, comments about marriage — these things can be arranged. We already had laws that should not have started the legislative path at all, and they ended it with certain amendments and amendments. I think it's possible to do so here, to some extent, as long as the law remains with this purpose, for which it was written. I will support this marriage, as it is said for the young and for our future together. I hope that some others understand the importance of this law and that this will help to ensure that the law is adequately supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposed magi asked for the floor. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! I wanted to respond briefly to the introductory presentations of the parliamentary groups and to the Government's position. I have to say, I'm kind of sad because I was sure that at least in this darkness we would be united today. I do not think that there is a person in a country who would not agree that there is a housing crisis in Slovenia and that we have a very big problem with this issue and that we should step together here as a political class and find some suitable solutions. Indeed, in good faith, the Social Democrats, together with the democratic opposition, have drawn up a law following the Danish example that would solve this issue. Indeed, the biggest problem is that immediately after independence, we left the entire issue of housing policy to the market and believe that the market will work for the good of the people. Well, you must have made a mistake. The same as in the field of energy and energy poverty, which is increasing in some ways today. Therefore, it is assumed that the market for these things is solving, wrong and that intervention by the State is necessary. Once again, I believed that together as a policy we would be able to reach some consensus that something must be done in this area. You've talked a lot, and even that right-hand half-room government, that the government has already passed some kind of law. By the way, I also supported that law at first reading because I believe that there are certain good solutions in the housing law that the National Assembly is currently considering, but that law is not enough. This marriage of ours is just an upgrade to that marriage. And another thing, dear colleagues from the government and the coalition, is not to take credit for that marriage. Indeed, that law, as formerly said, was largely or entirely prepared under the previous government, but then because of the collapse of the government and the circumstances that have happened, did not enter the parliamentary procedure. All you've done is sweep some good solutions out. It is true, however, that this Housing Law you spoke of also implies a number of important solutions. One of these is the possibility of more indebtedness to housing funds. The second is that the rent is converted from a non-profit to a rent that is a cost rent that corresponds to the cost of construction. But you have forgotten the key part – that this difference of assets from non-profit to cost must be ensured by the state. There has been a lot of talk about this being done, but no concrete solutions have been given. I'm sorry. You didn't pass them. This competition is kind of funny, or I'd say sad. Once again, I call on the coalition, or all Members and Members, to support at least the law that has been prepared in the democratic opposition at first reading, and then there will be time to complement and amend the law. I agree, Mr Secretary of State, that there may also be some kind of error, nomotechnical or other, so it is time to make this happen. The same story was found in the law on scientific research. Here in the National Assembly, when we as the opposition filed it, you wanted to tear it apart, how everything was wrong, and then you brought it in two months of the same identical, except that you gave some discharges to private scientific institutions, brought it into the National Assembly and then, of course, we unanimously supported it. Let's think about it one more time. As we say, our law provides in particular financial resources to provide funds for the construction of 10,000 new rental apartments over the next six years. Indeed, the current situation, when we have completely abandoned the construction of the housing market, is catastrophic. She led us into a housing crisis. Today we have a shortage of at least 10,000 rental apartments, probably even more. It is imperative to intervene here. Local housing funds cannot provide these apartments without State intervention. However, we are one of the countries in Europe with the largest shares of ownership apartments and, on the other hand, the smallest shares of public rental apartments. Let us take a look at Western Europe, and in cases that can set an example for us, such as Vienna, which has been run by the socialists for almost a century, this system of public rentals works. This is not just about housing for those from, I would call it, a social bottom, those who, of course, need the most help, it is also about providing apartments for the middle class, with some normal, affordable rent. We calculated that this rent according to our model for Ljubljana would be €350 for a flat of 65 m2. Today, tenants pay three times as much on the market for the same apartment as they have no security to chain contracts from year to year, if there are any contracts. By our law, anyone who is entitled to the invitation to tender would be given an opportunity to this apartment, a life right, it is said, for the rest of his life, to live in this apartment or to decide according to the current needs. Housing mobility, which is not in Slovenia due to such a high share of ownership apartments, is also very important which apartment you will live in according to your current needs. I don't know, the young family doesn't have the same needs for housing, to stay as some pensioner or older. All of this could be adapted if we had a model of public rentals. And we don't have it, as we say. The first important step was taken in 2015 under the government, in which we were also Social Democrats when, in fact, the housing programme established that housing funds were to be built only for rent, not for sale. Because what happened until then? Even housing funds acted as real estate agencies, and they built them to sell, at high prices. That's really unacceptable. I think everyone here in this room should agree that this is unacceptable. Let them build some, I don't know, capitalist investors on the market, but at the same time it is the country's duty to come in here and offer a housing fund suitable for citizens and citizens. As we say, our proposal for a marriage is not too ambitious. Over the next six years, we want to spend a billion 300 euros, with most of these funds being reimbursements and only guarantees for long-term loans by the state. As a society, let's set priorities. Let's set our priorities. An hour ago, we talked about the need to tax those with high wages and thereby damage the country for millions and millions a year, but now what we are hiding or even saying out loud is that housing funds are somehow too high or we don't have them. But we can find weapons funds for a bunch of other things that aren't necessary, even for those non-systemic PKPs that didn't help anyone get out of the crisis. But maybe they were, I don't know, helping some friend near your Prime Minister of the government get something. That's really unacceptable. Not to mention those observations by Mr Lisco, who do not belong to the National Assembly, do not belong to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a democratic country, which, for the time being, is likely to be no more. It is unacceptable to give out apartments to people who are written in such a way that they are invited to do so. I don't know, I'm sorry, but if we're going to share in the invitations, who's entitled to the apartment, whether he's a pure-blood Slovenian or not, then I really don't know where we came from. And this is what the Slovenian Democratic Party stands for. In good faith, the Social Democrats, together with the democratic opposition, have tabled this law. We believe that it is necessary to invest in people, not in the construction baron, as Mr Lisec says. I hope that some sense will prevail in this assembly and that the law will receive the necessary support for further consideration in the next stages of the proceedings. Mr State Secretary, if you do have any concrete suggestions as to what is wrong with the law, I mean nomotechnically, please, by word of mouth. You were saying that the ways of the tenders were not determined and so on. It's not, because it's going to be resolved by a submarital act. But I allow the possibility that any mistake is possible. Everyone's wrong. I'm sure the state has a bigger machine for these things than the opposition. But this is certainly no reason for marriage not to be allowed into further consideration. It is only a question of what is a priority policy for our country and for us. I think that housing policy, the provision of suitable housing, which is ultimately also determined by the Constitution, should be a priority. If this law does not receive the necessary majority in this constellation, we will use all other democratic means to make some movement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, I would ask that those of you who speak abstain from any debilitating markings or instigations. Please. There's no need, we're adults, we know what a person's attitude is, everybody said that, but there's no need for you to use such bad things. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, and he'll get the word "magic" after him. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members, Mr Secretary of State, the rest of you present, welcome! There's a law in front of us from a model that works. The error of “let us do something of our own” in Slovenia often leads us to relatively poor solutions. As if we are embarrassed to summarize good, working practices from abroad. This law is an example of good practice that works well in the neighbouring country, in Vienna, both municipal and municipal authorities are satisfied with this practice as well as citizens and citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens and citizens. First of all. It's the other way around. I really would not want to listen, as Mark had already said, to hear that there are some technical mistakes that need to be improved. Please take a good look at the opinions of the Law-Legal Service in most of the laws you make in the Government, where you have an extraordinary legal and legislative service, where you have a machine in the back with thousands of officials who control what opinions you get, and then we fix them here with common powers, at least sometimes. If something needs to be improved with my own, our own, say what needs to be improved, we will gladly accept it, because we only want good for citizens and citizens. However, when we ask ourselves about the content of the problem in Slovenia, whether access to rental apartments is at some normal, favourable price, which is also appropriate to our standard of living, we must acknowledge that it is. This is the biggest problem for the part of the population that we have to fight most for, for the young part of the population. This law allows us to help. Even with this law, we cannot solve all problems, but we have a different housing structure than elsewhere in Europe. Some say it's bad, others say it's good. Despite all of this, social problems have sometimes been solved in this way, but we are now establishing something new. The government has also, with our agreement, brought in a model that has already developed in the previous government. That's okay, but this model won't save everything. Here's an additional model, which is okay to help people get to an affordable apartment. What they're building in Ljubljana right now is where, when the prices are 4,000 or more euros per square meter, I'm just wondering, where do these people live so they can buy it? Where do these people live? In view of the fact that at least the average wage in Slovenia we know who these people who buy it are? Who are they? Where are they? Especially when it is read that everything that is being built is sold in advance at a price of 4,000 euros per square meter. Where are these people? I don't think these people are sitting in this national council, I hope they're not in the government or anywhere else, but somewhere else they are. This must nevertheless be normalised in order to make prices accessible. When this law was formed, there was always a problem between colleagues and colleagues who prepared it, using the word, yes, in Ljubljana. As Prekmurec of Murska Sobota, I immediately asked: “What do you do for Ljubljana alone or what?” And they taught me. Of course, this law will apply in this form to all cities in Slovenia, i.e. to the whole of Slovenia, and the fact is that it is the biggest problem in Ljubljana. Please, there is no need for us to be hostile to Ljubljana. If there's a problem here, the most problems will be solved here. Where there are problems, this law will be resolved. This law does not, unlike many other laws, constitute a direct attack on Slovenian public finances. Also because such a form is evident abroad. Not only would I like to ask ourselves whether we will be on the plenary, which is easier than on the competent committee, which is actually undemocratic, because it no longer expresses the relationship between the coalition and the opposition in Parliament – in most committees, the relationship is completely different if we look at the infrastructure committee, the environment, if we look at the health committee, I am quite sure that some useful suggestions on how to deal with the current bad situation in Slovenia, which we cannot get to the plenary through this committee, will we get support from the plenary. But I really wish that we would not be looking for individual Members in such a law now, or that we would support a good law, but, if necessary, what I miss in the current composition, that, say, the Government, even the coalition of the proposing parties might ask us if we would meet to see if there are any solutions that we could upgrade together. Not in front of the cameras, I know it's harder to negotiate in front of the cameras than if they're not on. But let's do it. We've got a good marriage ahead of us, we're gonna help people, we're willing to talk about it. Give us a chance to get the trial in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, he'll be followed by Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings for me, too! It is true that housing and policy are a question that many people are asking and so far no government has successfully addressed. This needs to be made clear. It must also be made clear that the situation we are now witnessing in the market is approaching a hot spring and that all those who are entering the labour market and those who have poor wages are still so good that they do not come to the list of housing funds make life in Slovenia significantly more difficult. That's a very big problem. We need to be aware that if someone wants an apartment in a bigger city, even if they hire it in Maribor, not in Ljubljana, they will pay 500 euros immediately plus the average wage. Now imagine how a young teacher who does not have the worst salary should afford such a life as an apartment. Of course, this situation makes you think about your future abroad. We refer to these things here. True, we have adopted a novel of the Housing Law, even in the SAB we have supported it. We agree that a major error was made when non-profit rents were not coordinated because it prevented both housing maintenance and the construction of new apartments. Here a very large error has been made, which has also helped to develop these anomalies on the market. We see very well what happens to the housing fund, which on the basis of rents that are not able to maintain apartments, let alone build new ones — the housing fund begins to shrink. We have also witnessed this recently in Maribor, when the housing fund was forced to sell off its properties due to lack of funds, because they were in such a long-term state that they did not have economic value in this respect, they were not worth restoring. We must be aware that apartments are not cheap, they represent a life investment, and this fund will also have to be maintained. These are very big challenges. If we come from the construction price of the apartment, so not the market, we must be aware that the construction price is about EUR 1000 200 per square meter plus the municipal land between EUR 100 and EUR 300. Then it is also necessary to know on the basis of what matter it is necessary to allocate funds for the maintenance and amortisation of these dwellings. That's exactly why I wish the rent was non-profit. I'm talking about non-profit. The cost of rent is, by definition, non-profit, because it includes the cost of purchasing and maintaining an apartment in one amortizing age to determine the standard and standard of non-profit housing, i.e. whether the apartments built on the Hill or in Maribor under the Pekrami are too luxurious. That's what I'm talking about, whether it's too luxuries or it's the right standard. When these standards are determined on the basis of the amount of the non-profit rent, the state, the local community, the funds responsible for this, shall start to build these dwellings. We must be aware that if the apartment is worth – construction price, for example, 60-, 70-square apartment – 100,000 euros, I am talking about construction price, then it is probably necessary to maintain such an apartment every year at least as much as one car. The question is, how many people are going to maintain an apartment as much as to maintain a car a year. These are questions we need to find a systemic answer to. If we know that the housing fund in Slovenia is relatively old, that we have a lot of buildings that were built after World War II, we know that some buildings are running out of life and are 60, 70 years old, and that they are financially mortified, even physically mortified, and will need big investments. I'm talking about existing facilities. These are things that we will have to address as a society, solve and establish mechanisms so that people living in these apartments can, in some way, maintain and live in these apartments. There are now some anomalies on the market. One is an increase in housing prices, the other is related to the increase in energy and other costs associated with the maintenance of dwellings. I'm afraid one of the dominoes can collapse quickly and these cards will collapse like a house of cards. Sometimes when I look at these ads – today a web portal has warned of misleading advertising practices, so that the property is not told about all known facts and circumstances – it is also obviously misleading in all advertisements or most property ads about the surface of the building, once the residential area is spoken of, the second time the area with auxiliary spaces. This standard should be clearly set so that these things do not get mixed up in ads. Meanwhile, real estate agencies continue to abuse it. We are also witnessing misleading ads that unbuilt apartments have yet to be sold. You can't sell unbuilt apartments with us, as far as I can tell. These are things and anomalies that the state, the local community, professional associations should respond to in order to calm the market situation and not to support this hysteria that we are witnessing. A fellow Jew said well – who are the people who buy these apartments at such prices, what salary do you have to have to buy such an apartment? And we're not asking that because we want to be anybody's fan, but because these prices that are, they don't have a basis for people's incomes and salaries. That is why we have already supported the first amendment in the SAB, i.e. the previous amendment of the Housing Law, also because we want to set up mechanisms for young people and for those less young people to have access to affordable housing. In the end, we want the rent they pay to be accounted for as a deposit for an apartment. These are all the solutions that the law, which we support in the opposition today, is supporting for the construction of 10,000 non-profit apartments. We must be aware that if people can no longer think about creating a future here, if, in order for them to live, they have to pay a disproportionate part of their income, for one basic need such as housing, more than 50, 60 % of their salary, then such a person is forced to think about not living here anymore and that he is going to look for a future where this situation is slightly more normal and less chaotic. On the other hand, we also have a very big problem when banks allow long-term debt for a period of 30 years and also offer wage burdens of 30.40%. Even when it comes to loans with a fixed low interest rate, it is a long-term burden on such a young person because it destroys his full potential to buy something else to educate and invest in any other development. These matters should therefore be addressed. The Housing Fund is now carrying out several projects in Slovenia, including Maribor, as far as I have in my head, one project for 400 apartments and another project for 400 non-profit apartments, in Ljubljana several thousand apartments, including in smaller towns, in Radenci, Slovenia Grade, New Town, Koper. So something is happening in this area, and I would like to see local and state institutions, when such anomalies are happening in the market, loud and clear and respond to them. We see that real estate agents and real estate agencies are very loud in promoting their own interests, in selling expensive apartments, simply for one reason – because they are paid from commission. Higher than the price, most of the commission gets. The percentage bill here is very clear. Here I would also expect one reaction from housing funds, I am talking about housing funds at local and national level, which should have an overview of what is happening on the housing market, so that they can react and respond to these anomalies. For example, I received information that when Banka Slovenije is preparing an analysis of the situation reports on the real estate market, she watches online portals. You know, if an official institute draws its resources from the Internet, then I ask myself about the reliability of these resources and why it does it, if that's true. I got this information from a source that I can really trust, which is that they draw their databases on the situation from online portals. Someone should have responded to that. Because if we look at long-term care coming, so that long-term care is very likely because of long-term society and more expensive health care, as a result, health care will be encouraged to make a contribution to long-term care, so that more pensions from the budget will have to be paid due to demographic changes, then it is clear that such a market, when someone first has 50% of the wage charged with such a loan, will soon become unsustainable and will collapse. It is precisely because of the above facts in the SAB that we support the adoption of this law. I think it will give additional impetus to all the activities already carried out by the Housing Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Edward Paulic has the word, and he is preparing for Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, we have on the table the proposal for a law to promote the construction of public rental apartments, which was tabled by members of the opposition. If I may first present the current situation on the housing market. The fact is that housing is becoming increasingly inaccessible, violating the human right to adequate housing. The existing housing fund is permanent. The fact is that 62% of dwellings over 40 years of age are missing, in addition to housing. Slovenia is ranked on the summit of the European Union in the proportion of young people between the ages of 18 and 29 who live with their parents. The uncertainty about long-term stay and the resulting high costs make it difficult to plan a career and design a household. 30% of the population lives in housing poverty. The fact is that most urban centres face this housing crisis. Here I think mainly of the largest cities, Koper, Maribor, Ljubljana. We all know that a major challenge is the so-called officially empty apartments. A survey was recently conducted in Maribor and it was found that out of 50,000 dwellings, almost 10,000 apartments were empty, officially empty. We'd need 10,000 public rentals, 600 housing units and 500 housing units. The fact is that we have the right to an appropriate bibian environment as enshrined in Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but obviously this cannot be ensured without the extensive intervention of the State and the local communities themselves. Many times we look at good practices from abroad, so I would very quickly take good practices from neighbouring Austria and also partly from Switzerland. In Austria, various sources of funding are available, where individuals can obtain housing loans, they know so-called state savings. This means that the saver saves several years and gains the right to a very favourable housing loan at interest rates that are even less than 1%. In Slovenia we know that this percentage is also more than three. They also know housing banks that are established precisely to provide funds to housing builders at very favourable rates. Foreignly, they know the forms of so-called housing cooperatives, which are the main tenants of rental apartments in addition to housing funds. The Housing Association represents an intermediate form of the housing relationship between traditional rental and ownership. The cooperative is the owner of the building and assumes responsibility and the cooperatives are formally tenants and are involved in the decision-making process. It is a non-profit organisation whose sole purpose is to provide housing at the best price for its members. In Switzerland, more than 20% of the housing fund in cities is regulated in this way, according to which cooperative housing is owned. The fact is that rents in these cooperatives are between 20 and 50 % lower than in the case of traditional leases. The key objectives of today's law are, therefore, the establishment of a public service, the construction of public rental apartments, the creation of the necessary financial resources and guarantees, the promotion of the country in the form of non-refundable resources, return on resources and loan guarantees. And of course, one of the purposes of the law is to establish a legal basis for the establishment of housing cooperatives. The financial implications are also included in the bill. During the period from 2023 to 2029, it will be necessary to provide additional budget and other public funds of EUR 1.3 billion, stressing that only €60 million in grants is involved, €440 million is in return and €800 million is in guarantees. It should also be pointed out that the proposal of the law is supported by both the Ljubljana Municipality and Maribor, where, as I have already mentioned, this housing issue is particularly pressing. We are also advocating further steps in the LMŠ. The following solutions will need to be considered. On the transfer of land and property from DUTB to the Housing Fund. At the time of the government of Marjana Šarca, this goal was already partially achieved, but not fully achieved. It will be necessary to promote the principle of rent-to-buy, which means that the family initially rents the apartment and can buy it out over time, including part of the paid rent. We are in favour of lower taxation of real estate benefits for non-tourism leases. We are, of course, talking about long-term rentals, where one of the problems with housing shortages is also these online broadcast platforms, such as Airbnb and the like. One possible measure would also be the granting of tax reliefs to companies that would build residential areas or residential areas near their seats or near production facilities. This would reduce the time needed to get to work. This measure would also be useful in terms of environmental objectives and in terms of reduced transport costs to work. What is crucial is the fact that, at current prices, real estate represents the purchase of housing for young practically life-saving projects. At this point, you might mention one example of good practice that is currently taking place in Slovenia. It is a project that is in the pilot phase, a non-profit project of the House for Young Families. I've noticed this in the media, the idea itself seems to me, I'll say, very interesting, but it's about the congregation arranging the proper land and then giving it up for the purpose of solving the housing problem. Communal infrastructure is managed by European funds, donations, state tendering and then a village of smaller assembly houses is placed on the ground. According to the first estimate, one apartment house would cost about 50,000 euros, an amount that would be at least a measure of reach for young families. If I finish this slowly. In the LMŠ we welcome both the pilot project mentioned and all projects that will increase the accessibility of young people's apartments. Of course, I will also support the proposal of today's law for this reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Sonibo Knezak, Mr Jože Lenart is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In today's debate, let me mention the starting points we had in Slovenia, as regards housing issues, relatively well regulated in the previous one, I do not know what exploitation system, but at least such a problem has been so successfully regulated that in fact we did not have homeless people on the road today, which we meet at least in major cities, companies were worried about, they were building, they were building on one side of the country, they were building municipalities and businesses. See the fragment, perhaps some of the modern owners of companies that face a shortage of personnel daily can be a little bit like the previous system, where companies have been disbursing part of the funds and also building housing for their employees. Last but not least, the apartment was offered as an additional rating, and at the same time kept employees in their homes, in their companies. Today this is not all because the policy of the time has decided that we will be in the framework of the privatisation that was being carried out – as I recall, first of all, the guinea pigs were some social food establishments in enterprises, various car parks, holiday homes, and then the ownership of so-called social dwellings under the Jazbinšk Law has been a slow turn. I'm the generation that's been given these benefits. Today we hear that this is the reason that there is no longer a lease fund in Slovenia, but I do not know that generations of parents have sold out a fund for younger generations. I have a slightly different view here, in the sense that, after we privatized these apartments, in my opinion, one of the few things that an average citizen could have done if he was lucky to have had an apartment, got from this privatisation, is that he at least got to the apartment. What is a problem is that at the same time as the sale of the social housing fund, there was no system in place to compensate for the housing deficit that arose on the market. The consequence of all this is, of course, that we have not had a housing policy since independence. We had one that had left the market to an excessive extent, and the country no longer had a role to play in all of this. In particular, the victims are younger citizens, citizens, young people, who today find housing difficult to reach. The prices of apartments, which are built to a large extent for the market, go up to the sky. After all, quite a few colleagues have already mentioned these amounts today. In short, access to a home for young families is almost impossible without some long-term, long-term debt, which mainly takes all the creditworthiness of these young families for other purposes. What I think is our speciality in Slovenia – without the help of parents, is not usually the case. Since there is no offer of new apartments, prices of old and long-term apartments are also rising, so we also have in this segment prices that are terrifying. According to the 2018 data that I was able to collect, more than 10 thousand applicants applied for the public housing contracts awarded by municipalities, housing funds and non-profit housing organisations. Among them were, as I mentioned, the most young and families, generations from the 1930s to the 40s, who are becoming increasingly difficult to access apartments. What should be the interest of the State or public interest and, in my opinion, the task of the State? To allow its citizens and citizens a decent life with some active housing policy. Not that you've been in charge of buying some real estate your whole life. Not to say that there is, of course, something else that is needed in addition to living in life. In the past, there have been no serious attempts, except for the resolution adopted, which has partially addressed these problems, I am talking about the Resolution on the National Housing Programme. We've also changed the Housing Law a little bit. All the changes or innovations he has introduced are, of course, more than welcome, but he has not solved the main problem, according to the lack of good 10,000 apartments on the market. The bill that we are considering today provides an answer to this part and is to a large extent – today I think this has already been mentioned – except for a successful model that works from the neighbouring city of Austria, Vienna, where for decades it has been successfully resolved by a fund of non-profit housing housing problems. The objectives of this law, as I have mentioned, are to build 10,000 public rental apartments, at the same time to establish the necessary financial resources and guarantees, and not least to create the possibility of non-profit housing through the so-called mutual organisation of people into so-called housing cooperatives. I will not repeat this because it has been said many times today that it does not mean a large contribution by the State, at least not as regards grants, that most funding sources are defined as loans, repayments. So it seems to me that by looking at the sustainability of public finances, this law also provides a good basis for a real opportunity to build these housings that are lacking in the coming years. I also believe that the law can be improved in the next stages, as you mentioned. However, I am firmly convinced that it constitutes one solid, realistic basis for the construction of over-needed dwellings. For that reason, I will support him myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Jože Lenart, to prepare Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. A very important area is housing policy, which is very important for Slovenia's development breakthrough and also for long-term stable public finances. Whatever the case, I'm going to try to prove it to you in this debate right now. It is difficult to understand today in this area, given the importance that the coalition now opposes this. I don't understand that at all. Otherwise, so little, I'm sorry, in the nickname “through the teeth”, but you certainly don't want to agree with this. I hear that in Ljubljana all apartments are sold, both for a thousand 500 euros per square metre and for the 5,000 euros per square metre. And what everyone would build in Ljubljana. Centralization. Stop, colleagues and colleagues, this is not the right way, this is not the development of Slovenia in the right direction. And now we have to ask ourselves, who are these buyers who pick up all these apartments, as far as they're available? Of course, there are no young people among these buyers, no young families. Young families are becoming increasingly dependent on these buyers, who can afford these apartments, and we know why. Particularly becoming a problem of the regions, this is said to be outside the centre and the situation is even worse here. Housing is still lacking because there is no real interest in construction alone – of course, if the price in this area is quite low. How, then, can we imagine the steady development of our Slovenia in such a situation? If there are no apartments, young people leave, so there is no development, there is no interest, no investment of domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, because of course there is no staff available, especially that quality staff to create conditions for creating higher added value. Of course, if the young are leaving. Investments in Slovenia are ongoing due to cheap labour if we look at Europe as such, Westerner, more developed. We are suppliers of components for multinationals, so we are exporters of capital, profits, taxes to wealthier countries. With such a policy, it will be difficult to achieve the 60 000 added value target of an employee in order to reach the EU average. This also means higher wages if we reach an additional value of €60,000. Without young educated staff, we will not be able to achieve a breakthrough in the development field in activities that provide this higher added value. This staff is leaving the less developed regions today to our centres. This is the first problem I've talked about – that we don't know how to develop evenly within. And the main problem is that young educated people are leaving Slovenia to the north and west of Europe and beyond, not even to talk about Australia, New Zealand and so on. This morning, I attended a meeting of the Council of the Carinthian Region and before that, there was also a meeting of the Development Council of the Carinthian Region, where we discussed the regional development programme for the Carinthian Development Region. This is what I wanted to hear because, as a Korean Member, I would then like to defend the projects that are in this draft act in the National Assembly, in the Government, in order to make it happen. And what do I find out? The very beginning was presented like this. The region of Koroška is still among the last regions in Slovenia. Look what I've heard: there are 70 thousand 635 inhabitants. I've had another 73 grand in my head since we've been defending the fast road to Koroška, how many people there are. And what do I hear? Official document from this data, age has already reached 44.7 years. Seven years ago, she was still 42.5 years old. For two whole two years, the age structure of the inhabitants of Koroška has deteriorated in this short period. That's another thing. The number of people in Slovenia, Koroška represents 3.4%. But if we go to GDP now. GDP compared to Slovenia is only 2.7% of the share we create. That's it. Development can't go on if we're so far behind. In GDP we only reach €18 000 694, which means only 80% of the average in Slovenia. And I'm gonna stop here now. Now I am going to do a comparison of Slovenia with Europe. It's almost the same image. Slovenia is also 20% behind the European Union average, reaching 80% of this average. That's the problem we don't see. To go back to housing policy. Why did I say that? Since housing policy, access to housing is one of the key things for us young people, young families to be kept either in less developed regions or in Slovenia, so that they do not go abroad, to more developed countries. I'm going to make a comparison with this Austria that I've never read about, but it's the closest I've got, and even migrant workers are the most in Austria. Austria reaches a higher added value by 100% and even slightly higher. Of course, 100% even higher wages, 100% higher GDP, but look, housing prices are similar. It's similar. In these large centres it costs a flat as much as in Ljubljana, and on the periphery it costs 20, 30% more. And that's what this is all about. What, though, is Austria's policy of moving forward even faster? What's their policy? Nice apartments. All the settlements are built in Vienna to attract young people, migrant workers, who then stay up and after 10 years get citizenship. It's their policy to get young people. They too have a problem with ageing societies, and they are aware that young people need to gain. With such GDP, with such added value they then cut off a piece of these cakes and invest in an apartment to get new staff. They get these new staff from less developed countries, so Slovenia also loses young staff and goes up there because of, of course, they offer them more. Not just Vienna to say what you heard about a month ago, elections – who won the Castle? A Communist party. And why? because their policy was based on this very social platform and was also very strong in the construction of non-profit housing, so that young people have access to work in Austria from other countries to offer housing immediately. Of course, where they need this frame, these profiles. That's a policy they can drive. And what do we do in Slovenia? Yes, even for our own young frame, we can't take care of our young families. Every government that comes, we promise, we speak, it's similar today, and then we reject these laws and we don't come anywhere. Thank God, my congregation has opened nearly 200 apartments in the last two years, half of which are nonprofit, and this is where it is known. But look at him, and on the other hand, investors, entrepreneurs, the car industry, are losing these jobs. And now our main problem is in Koroška, or in the Thinkinska valley, in Slovenj Gradc, to gain an investor who could at least create equivalent jobs. However, we hope to find one that we will not then, excuse me, a little in nicknames, “slaves” that we will work as co-operators for the low wages for which foreigners exploit us. That we may know that we can put on our feet such an activity, such production, where our own products will be, where we will compete on the market to create more. This trend of Koroška towards Slovenia and then Slovenia towards the European Union, as I have presented it, must be stopped. That is why it is so important to build apartments, nonprofit apartments, that young people can afford to be kept at home. Let's cut this once and finally do something. The marriage is on the table, and if we do not support it today, it will take six months, a year, or even a new government to do something again. But time runs, young people run, we lose jobs, and in this way we will not come anywhere. We are an ageing society, as I have shown, Koroška towards Slovenia, including Slovenia, we know this problem. And what? In this way it becomes an unsustainable pension cash register, health checkbook and everything else and the entire public finances. This is what we fight for, and this is what we all get into, and we know what this is about, but we don't know what we're doing right. We share some populism flossules, share some candy and boast about it, and the years go by. Let us take action, start working specifically on this and move this wagon forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The following has the floor before Mr Doblekar as a motioner, Mr Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. My colleague gave me some points to discuss. The situation is really very serious. When you said earlier, respected colleagues from the coalition, that people would start moving out of Slovenia, because they might be paying slightly more income in your opinion, I think it's completely depressed. But it is true that people will begin to move out of Slovenia if they literally do not have a place to live. You know what? Today in Dnevnik we can read an article where they are doing a calculation of what the actual cost of living in Ljubljana is, either for rent or for purchase. They have come to believe that the monthly rent of the loan is about the same, while the condition is another 20,000 euro deposit, or rent on the market. For a one-bedroom apartment of 48 m2, rent or credit is paid — I repeat, assuming that the borrower gets credit at all — it is said that the condition of employment is for indefinite time and deposit of EUR 20 000, but under this assumption it would be a monthly rent or loan — EUR 600 per month. 600 euros a month just for the apartment. This does not include heating, sewerage, water, after all what is to be paid to the reserve fund and so on. This is, of course, some average calculation, but 600 euros a month for 48 square meters. How much is the average net worth in Slovenia? A thousand 200 euros. Now tell me how to survive a man like that. This article highlights a single man who is even more at risk. Tell me how he can survive if he has fixed housing costs of around 800 euros, it is 600 euros rent plus 200 euros all the other costs that come along and cannot be denied. And that's a serious problem that's gonna get people moving out. And that's also, I'm sorry, my notions are unconstitutional. Because, as I said earlier, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia says that every citizen must have the right opportunity to stay. From year to year, these conditions are getting worse. Tell me how to tell someone, and I will say with an average salary, with an average salary in Ljubljana, where the average square meter is 4 000 euros and more, it now reaches 7 000 euros for new apartments, there will be some decent apartment, a decent apartment. Like a four-member family. Of course, assuming he doesn't have any predispositions to help his family and so on. That's different. But we can't come out like this. Those who have this option can be satisfied, but the system cannot come from such cases. And that's why it's really necessary here for the state to intervene. We can't split into red, white, I don't know, left, right. It's inhuman to let the market work its way around here. But he works for capital and for people, more than obvious. It's not just Ljubljana. I expose Ljubljana because the highest prices are in Ljubljana, on the coast, of course Maribor is close, the whole of Slovenia is a problem. But it is true that in cities this problem is escalating even more because people in the country are used to living in a way that is not traditional. They live in their houses and so on. But tell me how to be a young person who does not have an inheritance or cannot be helped by his parents, get a suitable apartment in Ljubljana. This is where I just quoted the case from the diary. Apartment with a size of 48 m2, for 600 EUR of rent or credit, I repeat [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] 20 years of credit. In 20 years. This is reality, and this is a reality we cannot deal with. At the same time, parallel apartments are built for luxury, for capital accumulation, to buy five, six apartments, and then, of course, artificially raises rent prices that are probably even higher than they show because many people avoid paying taxes. Here is the only way for the state to invest some funds and systemic arrangements for the area to start building non-profit rental apartments. This will also bring down prices on the market, including for those who would like to have their own apartment. I'm not forcing anyone to go on a non-profit lease. Surely there will still be a percentage of people who want to have their property. But it is right that we are a social state to allow people, as elsewhere in Europe, to get to a non-profit rental apartment, thereby reducing the prices of real estate that have actually flown into the sky in recent years. At the same time, we are also normalising the real estate market in the Republic of Slovenia. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, is crucial, which will keep citizens and citizens in Slovenia from escaping the brain. Not that we allow those few three, four percent of the richest ones to pay even less their income from their wages. And speaking of taxes, maybe I'd like to point that out. I agree in some way that a measure can be taken to give a tax relief to someone who may give a long-term rent to someone for a living, in order to relieve them slightly, but the matter needs to be more clearly defined to be a long-term lease. It might even make sense to think about giving this apartment to the state and then to the country ahead, but this measure may be meaningful, but it is not crucial, Mr Lisec, that you have previously exposed it, but it is not a key measure. Do you know where we should get the extra funds? And that's what our marriage says, because it's a permanent source of housing finance. We should tax the luxuries, according to the domestic tax on real estate. And that's not the first one, but then those who accumulate should pay for it. Then we can only talk about reliefs when these properties are taxed fairly. Then we can talk about giving some relief to those who then hand over this apartment, I don't know, whether it's a country or anyone, it's just a matter that needs to be settled. But you know, without taxes there's no social state, that's a fact. And that's where the two concepts hit today. We talked earlier about how people need to be burdened by a couple of euros with an average salary per month, and on the other hand we find that we need a billion 300 million for housing. Look, this is a very serious issue. I am sorry that we are not sitting very much in the Chamber at the moment, as if it may not be an important area, but I think it is a very important area. And once again, I also call on the coalition to try to step together to find that this area really needs to be resolved. We've all neglected him in the past. The main culprit was the law that sold out all the assets, and then did not multiply these assets into new construction or, I don't know, the construction of some non-profit housing fund, but then, Janez Janša and other friends, who have been essentially the same 30 years in power, apparently made some other deals and such a policy is unfortunately continuing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr Boris Doblekar, and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. First of all, I could take advantage of the opportunity for the day of sovereignty to offer sincere congratulations to all Slovenes and Slovenes and point out that in the market of the Republic, which is a symbol of Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia, and the symbol of the half-lived red color is a red star, the symbol of this party currently proposing housing legislation. So much at first. When I listen to the debates or to the proposals of the proposer, who somehow cannot pass over the fact that he or she has made excellent contributions to political parties about who is supporting someone, who has friends and so on. See, even if this housing law by the Social Democrats or the former Union of Communists is well-intentioned, even if it were, it would have to be explained in a different way, or by the coalition or by Members and Members in a different way, in order to support this populist law. As the elections are approaching, of course as many such laws must be reproduced in public and dealt with here in the National Assembly. Given that the party of the Social Democrats has been in government for years, decades, or decades before, in the former system, when they have completely introduced housing problems and are now trying to solve quickly with some law on the construction of 10,000 apartments. Sounds funny, doesn't it? From 2015 to 2020, what you were doing in the government, you built or somehow built 340 apartments, respected by the Social Democrats. Of course, I am also speaking together now, in the last period when you were a KUL coalition, that is, together with Levica, LMŠ and the Sab client, you were in the government. So, nothing was done or wrinkled. This is very worrying and all that you have done before is, of course, now the situation you identify yourself; that the housing problem is severe, that young people are leaving, that they are low wages. Look, you had the opportunity to back up a little earlier, or you will have the opportunity to support the Income Act tomorrow in the vote, which will raise wages and pensions, but, as was clear from your discussions, you will not support this Income Act. So you're not up for salary raises, so you're up for a continuation of the situation, and you're up for young people to get to good jobs and housing later. So something's not going together. When you say antikoronic packages were used to share candy. With anti-korona packages, and also with all the legislation that the current government is now enacting for your solemn purpose, smoking corn, sharing money, helping people, helping citizens and the economy as well as the municipalities, and all this is intended to make it easier and faster for housing funds to offer suitable housing for the young people you sing. We were concerned about this at the time of your rule, and when this government began, we also adopted the Housing Law, which you did not support, among other things. Did you, am I wrong? [[advertising from the hall]] I don't think you supported him, do you? Thus, the Housing Law, which is designed precisely to build and build new dwellings — by the way, you need to stress this more than once. New apartments are already being built, and the housing problems of young, young families are being dealt with intensively, with supersonic speed. This change in housing legislation will, for example, generate approximately two thousand new rental apartments by 2025. The new legislation has also aligned the amount of non-profit rent with the adjustment of the system of subsidisation of rents in order to protect socially vulnerable tenants. This is being done with new legislation So, the old ones are already going, they're already working, aren't they, unlike before, when you just didn't know to do it probably or somehow you couldn't find a common language to move things, so it cost everything. [[…]] Now these things are being corrected by this legislation, and this government is already doing all this. Things are moving on, so this concern, the fear that there will continue to be such a situation that you have caused yourself, is completely unnecessary, completely superfluous. Public employment is also established or is provided for under the law and it is possible to increase the indebtedness of housing funds. You know, with those non-profit rents, it wasn't possible to rebuild apartments, but you didn't move anything, you didn't do anything about it. That's worrying. That's why we have what we have. That's why. In short, a lot of good things have been done for young people, young families have been made with this housing law, and apartments are already being accelerated and will be built in the future. That's essential. That's what they say. They're getting rid of these things. You say a lot about Vienna. Some of the mouthfuls of the Danube, but you know, you did not rule in Vienna, nor did the Union of Communists rule a party, nor did your way of ruling, after you changed the name of the Union of Communists into Social Democracy; they did not rule in Vienna. They didn't have nationalization in Vienna, but denationalization, and I don't know everything that's been totally smuggled and missed. It wasn't! There wasn't any trouble up there. It went up normally. I'd say they respect private property unlike you, which they don't, and that's why there's another story in Vienna than we do. You can't just keep comparing one of the Viennas and one of the Slovenias. This law, which you have prepared, is written primarily on the skin of the larger cities, I'd say. Most certainly the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor. You just want it to be built here, in these places. We already have everything in focus, and we would. Here you can see only Ljubljana and Maribor. Let's see other municipalities in Slovenia; see also Zasavje, Lithuania, Šmartno pri Litija. Open your eyes, I'd say, dawn as should be increased, even to the countryside of Slovenia. We also have young families in the countryside who want to stay in the countryside and have well - paid jobs, building apartments, houses. Not just the Ljubljanas! I don't know how you'd convince us now or the Slovenian public that you're honest about your intentions with some proposal; all of a sudden you're gonna build 10,000 flats quickly, but you're not doing anything in decades. Then you call the law of Jasbinski. Yeah, it was a mistake or it wasn't a mistake. Those who then received their apartments at a low price — of course, they liked it. Crying about it. Do you mean to say to those who received half the apartments under the Jasbinski Law that they would have to pay for these apartments? Or, I don't know, you're gonna take them again so you can make another leap like you've done in the past? These apartments were then given half-free housing rights by the owners, and then, of course, they also sold them. Or, for example, if he wanted to buy this apartment quickly, he later sold one small garage and bought the whole apartment with that garage purchase, according to this law and so on. In short, there have been a lot of mistakes made in history, nonsense, and we must never wish that you kept repeating your mistake. If you didn't know how to save until now, or if after five years you couldn't get more than 340 apartments together, who would believe you're going to build as many as 10,000 apartments? As for your experience, your political parties experience on housing issues or care about housing, go look at Murgle, your product. Go to Murgle and see this empire of properties of the Slovenian Red Tribe! Just step into Murgle for one field trip, on one trip, and you will see luxury houses on an elite location, which mainly political February received almost free of charge, for change. After 20, 30,000 euros or less, these properties are worth 300, 400 to half million euros today. And I don't believe you're going to deny me because that information is being kept. And there's your political February. Members of the Communist Union, your predecessor, most of them live there. You see, that was your concern for the apartments. I lived in the hills, in the Great Stang, and they went to the old school old party February to rest, but they lay and looked around all day and afternoon, and they went to the inn to order the Communist Union to eat. I've been chasing pieces and rakes along the coast. See, that's how it was, and that's why I can talk about it. Well, and now this is the kind of concern that you've shown here with these Murglami and these predecessors of yours, your role models, the party Februarys that you've got for these low prices, and at the same time you haven't taken care of the working people or now you're saying you'd take care of the vulnerable and the poor and I don't know what it's all about. I can't believe you, given what happened in the past, that you took care of yourself, you, with legislation, with the way you work, that someone who was just a communist or your member could buy a 20, 30 thousand-euro house on a beautiful plot that is worth half a million euros today. You know, that's why I can't trust you somehow. Even people, I don't believe if they know history, they'll believe that you have some sincere intentions, and now all of a sudden, 10,000 apartments. You don't even know what kind of money to build it from, you don't know where to get the money. Will you be in charge? Probably back to your old manners when you pay such high interest that, say, this government never does. Once again, we have adopted a housing law designed primarily to solve the problem of young people; young families, young employees, as well as older people, as well as all others. This law has been passed and is not supported by you, but now you're proposing some sort of pre-election manner, just a matter of 10,000 new apartments. That sounds good. I don't mind if you guys were really able to do this or have an honest purpose to do it. But on everything I've said before, all the mistakes you've made so far, your neglect towards young families, to young people, and your failure to support the Income Law, which would raise wages, and you didn't even support the PKPs, and you didn't support things when the Government prepared them or when we arranged for the other child to have free kindergartens, and when we regulated the most favourable transport of students and students, and when we all gave allowances together to older pensioners, students, students, students, all these things, and when the injustices were corrected in the homes and in the disabled and so on. Old stuff. This government has fixed countless repairs that have been carried so far. These are all things that affect a better standard. To a better standard of people. And all of this then helps, helps to make it easier to solve housing problems either by renting or by buying. However, that such high prices are real estate, either land to buy for building a house or that such prices are high housing, you are responsible to a large extent for yourself. But you have ruled and brought the situation to where we are. Now you've just figured out when you're not in the government right now that everything's wrong. So you realize that you weren't able to put things in your place, that you'd seduced things too far, and you'd expect at least that when we want to fix things, just as we wanted with the Housing Law, which we've adopted, but here we've come to the opposite and help us to accept such things, which are in the interest of all those who have been ignored so far. And that would be fair to you, and you'd expect it. If you couldn't put these things in your place by yourself, then you could help get these things done the way we're doing it now. Then you could also say that you have only helped this government, which cares about young families who care about employees and who care about workers and pensioners, so that they can solve their housing problems more easily and more quickly. We have also adopted a lot of things from building legislation – of course it is still waiting for admission, it is under consideration by the Law on the regulation of space. We somehow combine all these things together, including with the Housing Law, which we have already adopted, and all the other things, including the Income Act and so on, are a collective, some whole of everything where tectonic movements are made for the benefit of citizens and citizens for a better standard, for better wages. And we must all work to ensure that economic growth is as high as possible, that people earn as much as possible and that they live as easily as possible. That's essential. Such pre-election mints, or some populism about 10,000 flats, or the things you're proposing before the elections, I don't think they're honest, and somehow they're out of place. So that such a populism proposal of yours I, unfortunately, somehow cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word right away. I just want, Mr. Doblekar, to warn you, I have listened carefully to your debate. If you had used the way your fellow Member, Vice-President, had handled it, I would have commented on a number of things at this point, but I will not have them because I have no authority to do so. However, I would like to draw attention to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which we are conducting this general debate, which speaks of the need to discuss, at the time of the general debate on a proposal for a law, the reasons requiring the adoption of the law and the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. In your debate, I haven't seen a single sentence on the bill, but you actually went to the personal discredit of the applicants, which I don't think is right. At this point, I warn you, I did not want to interrupt your debate and interrupt your red thread, but in the future I will interrupt you and invite you to return to the agenda item or that your debate will be more than not correct or more in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Replica [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? You have a procedural motion regarding first we have a procedural proposal, I apologize. [[…]] Mr. Jože Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Vice President. Otherwise, I can only thank you now for your procedural proposal or for what you have also warned the Member that it is difficult to carry out a normal debate in this way. On the table, we have a proposal for a law on the promotion of the construction of public rental apartments, which – I will say – I must admit here – we did not know, during this period of crisis, what to move, now that from all this Plan for Recovery and Resistance, when there are opportunities, we have to listen to this Member, such as the predecessor, a non-productive political lecture of history and of course political slander. I mean, this doesn't belong in the National Assembly, literally. We have such serious things on the table. And thank you again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u128	Is the motion yours?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u129	to warn him and future discussers to avoid it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I've been here before, so I won't repeat myself. Mr Boris Doblekar also wanted a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u131	Just for a little while, Vice President. I listened very carefully to you in your explanation. I touched the content of the proposed law on certain points. Everything else that was behind it, however, was only a response to the views I had previously heard and to some debates. Just a response to this about different friends and so forth, which was to be listened to. Otherwise I wouldn't even mention it. And also this material, which I then used, I went out later even to look for it, because otherwise I wouldn't, but I would speak strictly, for about six, seven minutes I had planned, just this matter. But when I heard that, then I upgraded things a little bit to the response, nothing else. I'm sorry if there was anything like this, but I was kind of just reacting to what I was listening to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u132	Nice to meet you. Thank you for your intervention. Let's say it was a procedural explanation. I'm glad you agree with me in some way. Just to clarify, if I were to conduct the session earlier, if this was really just a response to the previous positions, and I'm not going to define myself here, because believe me, I'm not like you, I would have intervened earlier. I really ask that we are right in the debates and we are simply discussing in the spirit of this general debate, which is intended to discuss the proposal for a law on placement in our social space and so on. Reploko wanted Mr Sonibo Knezak to discuss with his colleague Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. Perhaps Mr or colleague Doblekar did not understand this law. Of course, if you want to understand it, you have to read it first. And after what nonsense he's been savoring these 20 minutes, I can see that he hasn't even opened the front of this law. Because we talked about the '70s today, but I don't know what else we're doing, but about the Murgles; in short, the classic SDS repertoire when there's no argument. I'm not an advocate or Murgel, not the way anyone got to the apartment. You first ask your president, who, by the way, is the only Prime Minister in Europe, who is still a former communist, to explain his assets, and perhaps a comrade from Murgel will be easier than he who always has problems with it. But it's not worth it, it's probably a range understood by Comrade Doblekar. Well, we're different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u134	Let's still keep the level of debate where the topic is not to ping-pong on these topics that are not on the agenda, because it's not right. The speaker wanted a text before the next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Vice President. After all, colleague Sonibo said the point. Mr. Doblekar, you really didn't read the law and you used that general SDS reminder when you don't know what to say, but you start talking about communism, about the red star, and so on. Funny and sad. Yeah, even the garbage mob might be missing. But I would like to answer you, Mr Doblekar, when you mentioned: the old times, the red star and so on. In those days, I would not want to be defined as such, but in those days the housing problem was well and exemplaryly solved. And then when you came to power in 1990, you squandered it and sold it all out. And I'm sorry, stop fooling people with the Murglas – I don't know what. The Murgles were sold in the same way, according to the same law as the rest of the apartments. And I know, but I don't want to be some bumper for the people of the previous regime, but a lot of people who gave up their apartments and didn't buy them off by the law of Jasbinski, even though they had the chance. But that's not the point of today's debate. Deplorable to citizens and citizens, it is insulting that you always take such a debate along ideological paths and start to bounce back always one and the same flossules. People don't have apartments. And you're hoping to say it's a populism law. That's what you know how to say! Do you know that most young people, those who are not born with a golden spoon, have no place to live? Do you realize that? And that's also the untruth as to how you prepared the changes to the housing law that are in the process. That's not true either. They were prepared by the previous government. And that doesn't mean that I didn't support the changes. Look at this before you talk. Stop deceiving and stop littering the Slovenian public with one and the same themes. Time goes on and people want to make politics for the good of people, not to keep some stories from the past. More unreal on top of everything!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, preparing for Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Unlike the SDS gentleman, I will focus on the proposal for a law because I have read it, unlike him. I probably won't say anything new yet. We know that at this point in Slovenia we have a housing crisis, that the prices of new buildings have literally flown to the sky, that rents have flown to the sky, even recently. Not even if we're talking about cities as such. Of course, young people are finding it increasingly difficult to afford one another, not even those who are reptiles and do not have any regular income, not to say a job for an indefinite period of time. Colleagues have already said all this in these hours since this debate. We still know that there are very large differences in Slovenia. Ljubljana and the coast are thus unattainable if parents, including old parents, do not help, while in other parts of Slovenia prices are actually some properties for half lower and, of course, also by saying that people have so much less property in those parts of Slovenia where there is not a strict center or really some city municipality. However, the fact is that young people, or the vast majority of them, want to live in cities. To make the countryside empty, we know. It's empty where there's more difficult living conditions. Of course, because they all go to town, prices are rising there. That's the way it is. But the task of the state is to help young people with active housing policy. And this is actually the goal we want to achieve with this proposal, which we have also agreed to in the opposition. Why? For the first time, because young people are the future of our country and, of course, they must be invested and also put at the top of the country's priorities. They need to be given stable jobs so that they can also think about real estate and purchase real estate. That is why the goals and solutions of this law are such. Firstly, the establishment of a public service for the construction of public rental apartments. Secondly, the creation of the necessary financial resources and guarantees. Thirdly, the creation of opportunities for non-profit housing through the mutual organisation of people in housing cooperatives. Fourthly, determining the country's incentives in the form of non-refundable resources, recoverable resources and loan guarantees until the State implements a permanent systemic source of housing policy related to certain budgetary tax revenue. Fifthly, it allows the State to guarantee long-term debt for the construction of public rental apartments. Six, creating opportunities and incentives for the construction of rental apartments through residential cooperatives with the participation of tenants. These are very specific objectives, which are also enshrined in this law. Now, if Mr. SDS read it, then I'd know that, and I wouldn't say that we're writing something there in one day. The financial implications were estimated at 1.3 billion between 2023 and 2029. And if, at this point in time, we have it written down that we will give 780 million for weapons, then of course, this should not be a problem in all these years. However, what was adopted when you told us that we did not support the housing law, which of course is not true, but nevertheless, it was prepared in the previous government. And what did you do? In fact, you eliminated the main solutions and then brought to the table what the government had prepared. But okay, we're not gonna talk about it either. But we have another paradox at this time in Slovenia, and it is called that young people can't get to their homes, whereas older people who live in some houses, which they have acquired, built, built, with their own hands, however, and simply don't want to sell, even though they are hard to sustain, or even now that winter is coming, they are hard to heat. Do you know how many of these houses and houses there are in Slovenia? It's huge! Because we have, in fact, Slovenians have this need to hold property and God does not let it sell. We have this culture that we have to own property. Now, if we look around other countries, of course, it's not like that, but okay, this is our mentality, obviously, that we have to have a good car, and that we have to have a real estate or a house and keep it, even though we can't afford it anymore. It's a real fact. That is why we have proposed this law, and that is why there are also solutions in this law that we can come up with and save this. In fact, I was surprised by the position of the Government or Mr State Secretary, who said, quote, he said very concretely, Ahasuerus said that the Government does not support this bill, so I quote, “because we no longer need public housing”. [[…]] I have to say, I don't really understand that. That's exactly what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, because I wrote it to myself. I will read to you what the Municipality of Ljubljana has written, which supports this proposal to increase the number of public rental apartments, and especially what the Municipality of Maribor has written, from which I come. They say that they support the adoption of this law, especially the lack of non-profit housing for applicants on List A, which are not linked to the payment of security under social conditions, and the provision of housing for the elderly. The Maribor Public Housing Fund currently needs approximately 300 public rental apartments by 2025, and a total of 300, together of 600 public rental apartments by 2025, according to the Municipality of Maribor. And since we know that we are becoming an increasingly ageing society, it is very visual and with numbers said also by colleague Jože from LMŠ, then we must admit that we have a problem and that we need these apartments, which the Government says are not. Nevertheless, I think that it will be necessary to approach housing issues in an integrated manner, so in the LMŠ we stress that adequate housing policy represents only a stone in the mosaic of a broader consensus between representatives of all social groups, both young and socially threatened and also older. That is why, once in this country, we have decided to help each other intergenerationally, and that is the case, of course, in the LMŠ. Because the interests of social groups are very intertwined, young and socially disadvantaged with adequate housing, we co-create the conditions for the creation of a separate life and enable them to enter the active representatives of society and, as a result, we influence the strengthening of intergenerational relations, which form the basis for intergenerational solidarity. And that's the point! This, of course, will also create conditions for quality and active ageing, and will also strengthen the possibility of decent age. Because in this way we will be able to restore to the elderly what they have given to this society. Therefore, we must also make sure that they live a decent life at an old age, not that they are cold in their homes or in their homes because they have too few pensions and cannot afford to be warmed up. If we ever spoke to Mr. Krabonj of the Rebellion, who is probably known by everyone and very actively helps the elderly in Maribor, not only the elderly, all of them, but, in the vast majority of cases of the elderly, then we would see what he says about what is happening now that winter is coming. People are either simple or they don't smoke or they don't eat because they don't have it for both of them. Therefore, the proposal of this law to settle these matters. What are further suggestions that we are also advocating in the LMŠ? For the first time, the transfer of land and property from DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, we have already said this in our government. Some things happened, and some things didn't. Then, of course, secondly, the promotion of mobility between residents or owners of real estate. This is what we have, as I said earlier, a bit of a problem for the Slovenians, because it seems to us that we need to keep this property in our hands. Then the third time, promotion of the principle of rent and buy, when a young family or couple can rent the apartment at first and then buy it back eventually. That's what this law is about. Then for the fourth time, promoting sustainable housing from renewable sources. We also probably still have something to say in Slovenia after homework, reserves and they need to be used. In fact, in the LMŠ we consider that the debt in itself is not problematic, which is what the state is in charge of. If it is in charge of public investment in infrastructure, i.e. the construction of public rental apartments, it is also appropriate as regards LMŠ. Also because public investment replaces spending losses because as a result, GDP is falling less than it would have been, and because the investment country is thus promoting economic activity and employment. All these things, including public investment, can be a generator of economic growth in times of economic crisis and, of course, we support them in the LMŠ. I myself wish that my colleagues on the right would stop these divisions, but we would see that we are working here for our craftsmen, that we are actually trying to help young people who will work for our pensions here with this bill. It would therefore be right for such a proposal to be supported. And I'll back him up myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Rožec, Secretary of State, spoke. Here you go. There's a microphone. Mr. Pink, there's a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you. I just want to say that my closing sentence was, "The government does not support the bill because it estimates that it is not necessary." And I didn't say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Vice President. Look, I'm appalled at what the Secretary of State just said. You, the Secretary of State, claim before the Slovenian public that the law is not necessary. With all the birds chirping on the branch, that at least 10,000 apartments are missing in the Republic of Slovenia, that young people are not able to secure their own apartment! That they stay with their parents until the age of 30 and beyond, and then they don't come to a decent apartment, but they have to resort to some market rent for prices like I used to leave. For 600 euros for a one-bedroom apartment in Ljubljana, for example, or a little less in Maribor. And you're hoping to say there's no need for marriage! You're literally making a fool of citizens and citizens, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Pink, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. In the beginning, it was said or said that the housing law aligned the amount of the non-profit rent, adjusted the subsidy, established the implementation of the public rental of apartments and raised the threshold for the borrowing of housing funds. By 2026, five thousand new active and two thousand existing unoccupied dwellings will be acquired. This is quite comparable to the effects of this law that you are proposing, and I am certainly not saying that young people do not need housing, we are just talking about how to get to them. Also from the debate, I think Mr Reich has said, but I don't know who else we have 180,000 to 200,000 empty apartments, and I haven't heard from anyone since today how we're going to activate these apartments. It seems to me that there is a great need to get to these apartments. Because there are so many apartments empty, but if there's only half of them, if there's only 100,000 of them empty, it's a big disaster. But I agree, young people need, I have three kids, all three need apartments. I also have old parents, a lot of old parents to take care of, so I understand all the problems. So you don't think there's someone here who isn't human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u145	Look, Secretary of State, I don't think you're human, but I think it's necessary to build 10,000 or eight thousand, as you say, six thousand additional rental apartments to provide a source for that. And with our law, we provide additional funds, billions and 300 million euros, in fact, for the majority of the repayments and long-term loans with guarantees, but because of the fact that the long-term loans that banks will not give to the market, you speak the same way as in the long-term care and anything else, we will do this, this, this, you owe little to yourself, but at the same time you will not tell where you will take the money for this and at the same time you will also be burdening the richest. And I'm sorry, it's either ignorance or mocking citizens and citizens. I'm sorry if I overreacted emotionally, but saying that it's not necessary is absurd. Because we all know that there is a housing crisis in Slovenia and that people cannot get a suitable roof over their heads. It is therefore necessary to set priorities and say, we will give so much and so much money for housing. Not just some flossules. I agree, there are also empty apartments, absolutely, it is a very big problem that these apartments are empty. It is necessary to determine whether they are empty or perhaps black, which is even worse. Even empty apartments are large, and the country has many apartments that could be used for these purposes. All of this has to be resolved and, in part, this has even been resolved by the law that the Government has put into procedure, I'm not saying no. But it does not mean that there is no need to think and provide additional resources, that there is no need to provide legal basis for a partnership that is regulated everywhere in Europe, but not for us. And we're saving these things with the law. But the easiest thing to say is, we'll do it, but the money will be found, whether it will fall out of the sky or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Bevk alone has the floor to prepare Mr Boštjan Korazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The main objective of the law is to create the conditions for the construction of 10,000 public rental apartments. Of course, then to create financial resources and guarantees and facilitate access to housing and greater housing mobility. All these objectives are pursued by the draft law tabled by Members of the Social Democrats in the parliamentary procedure. In fact, a suitable apartment is a constitutional category. Let me quote the 78th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will hold at the end of this year's thirtieth year; it is said that 30 years ago the constitutional basis was also laid for, to say, adequate housing. Article 78 states: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing.” A very clear article, a very clear content that doesn't need any comment. Unfortunately, however, the country has abandoned its housing policy during this period and has almost completely withdrawn from this very important segment of our lives. Here we can most clearly see what happens if a country withdraws from an area and leaves it to the market or privatisation. Therefore, I only hope that a similar story will not happen again in the areas of health, education, science, culture and so on. It is easy to break something, but it is very difficult to re-establish it; to establish a system, such as housing construction, as we once said, that worked very well in our previous common country. I would like to say how it was after the independence, after 1990 in Idrija Municipality. The first apartments in the independent Republic of Slovenia in Idrija Municipality were built in 1995 during the time of my county. The following apartments were not built until 10 years later, in 2005. Then again 10 years later we got a couple of apartments in the City Square and a few years ago in Rožna Street. I could put them all on both hands and both legs. I don't think there were more than 20. But there is something else you really need to say. In 2011, there were 12 thousand inhabitants in Idrija Municipality. According to statistics, there were 4 thousand 970 dwellings in the congregation, of which 3 thousand 983 were inhabited, so almost a thousand were uninhabited. Let's say that some of them were fictional or black, but even if this number were half the size, it's very large. Therefore, an analysis should also be made of how uninhabited dwellings in the Republic of Slovenia and how to benefit from this great potential for uninhabited dwellings to survive. It certainly is not the case that the apartments are uninhabited because the rents are very taxed. Not to mention the neighboring congregation and the social construction of public apartments. In the Municipality of Cerkno, however, it is only now that they are talking about starting to build some municipal dwellings. In the 1930 ’ s, almost no one was built. With the entry into the new social system, Slovenia, by means of the so-called Jazbinšk Law, carried out the mass privatisation of apartments in the current social property. Private housing ownership has thus become a standard and dominant model, and Slovenia has therefore become one of the lowest shares of publicly owned dwellings. Of course, the promotion and favourable lending of houses or the purchase of apartments in the previous country also contributed in part. By selling or privatising social leases, the State gave up its active housing policy and left it to the market. This led to the impoverishment of the fund of needed public rentals, as there were no more incentives and resources needed to build new rental apartments. According to 2018 data, more than 10 000 applicants applied for public rentals issued by municipalities, housing funds and non-profit housing organisations. Among them were the most young individuals and, of course, young families. Today, the price of buying apartments goes to the sky, which is not only due to rising prices of raw materials and other materials and more expensive labour, but primarily because of the construction of apartments for the most valuable, because there are higher returns for investors. When one of my colleagues, friends, told me that he wanted to move from one of Slovenia's provinces from Dolenjska to Ljubljana and asked about the owner who was building new apartments in the city centre, for what he could sell this new apartment, which is now being built, he said that there was four, five thousand euros per square meter. Then this fellow said, of course, to this owner, I don't have this money, but how will I survive. He said that in the end, you will be able to earn more, for the housing or prices of these apartments will increase significantly in the coming years. It is said that the market is very, I would say, accessible only to the richest segment of our population. This is how we are today in a situation where housing is lacking in locations where housing demand is the highest, where rents are lacking, especially those that would enable more vulnerable groups to solve the housing problem. Thus, the proportion of private dwellings is very high, which, of course, affects the physical state of the housing fund. The Housing Fund is old, does not meet the energy and functional standards of modern society and increases the cost of living. Investors have no interest in investing in housing in the public interest, and current legislation does not support the development of the rental market, in particular tax and housing legislation, which does not allow for balanced measures to establish an effective housing system. The mobility of the population is low and in terms of the willingness to switch dwellings according to the needs for a certain period of life. The current law, the current housing law, was passed in 2003, but since then it has experienced more or less cosmetic corrections, despite the financial crisis at the turn of the previous decade, which revealed the entire mortgage on the housing market. We only experienced the first serious attempts at legal reform in 2019 when our government, at the time, put into public hearing a whole new law which, due to the government's replacement in early 2020, did not see the adoption. We must be aware that Slovenia lacks, in particular, an adequate systemic and stable financial resource for the mass construction of rented public dwellings, which would enable the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the local communities and housing funds of local communities, non-profit housing organisations, housing cooperatives and other legal persons established under the law to provide housing for individual social groups to start building, while also allowing the financing of such projects to be carried out generally to a significant extent, such as the manual rejection of housing loans abroad. As we say, the objectives of the law are to build 10,000 public rental apartments, to create the necessary financial resources and guarantees, and to create opportunities for non-profit housing through the mutual organisation of people into housing cooperatives. Finally, there is something about the public financial implications of the state budget. In the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we propose that in the period from 2023 to 2029 additional appropriations and other public funds totalling €1 billion and €30 million will have to be provided. Of these, €60 million in grants, €440 million in repayments and €800 million in guarantees. As we say, today or tomorrow, when we vote on this proposal, we have the opportunity to do something good for Slovenia for its people and its inhabitants, especially for the young generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u148	Since there are very few debaters left, I will read the entire list to the end. First he gets the word Mr Boštjan Koražija, behind him the French Kepa, behind him the Mag. Marko Koprivc from the quota SD, then Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Miha Kordiš and as the last Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Korazia. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u149	Madam President, thank you for your floor. As a thread or as a leitmotive throughout today's debate on these dwellings, it is clear that Slovenia unfortunately did not have any or any housing policy in the last decades or the last 30 years, and that is why we are here when we are discussing how to prevent this housing crisis or how to prevent this collapse from actually being residential in Slovenia. The main victims of this state's inactivity in all years must be acknowledged, not just now, are young. It is said that, given that the country was not capable of either being prepared or already providing housing for young and young families, the result is many times this — and we know that we are living closer to the Austrian border, that also because of this, not only because of better paid services, but because of better opportunities for access to housing or other living opportunities that Austria then offers in this case. In fact, we are going around in a vicious circle and one will have to once or should, but also now we should take such a step forward and finally start preparing not only but just plowing the ice of this or this housing policy strategy in Slovenia, which is unfortunately not, and this has to be recognised. I am simply because this housing policy or the problems of young people themselves, as well as people in general who are looking for housing for the first time or even more, as it were – there is one very good group of young researchers and employees who are called the Cooperative. In fact, they are working with regard to the housing cooperatives themselves, but what was interesting — I don't know if anyone was paying attention and monitoring their activities on their website — was recently published by one survey conducted between May 18th and June 3rd this year, it is said in spring. This survey was responded to by 651 respondents and very interesting answers were given to questions about why this strategy of housing policy has never actually worked or worked. In fact, they were asked first what they were like as Slovenians or what citizens and citizens thought when they said they lived. What was most interesting were the most frequent responses of these respondents: home, security, peace. Then they have also started to follow more negative associations in terms of this payment of credit or rent: non-availability of the apartment, excessive costs and so on. In the end, as we all know, talking to young people or listening to them and listening to their problems, these words eventually appeared: tribulation, stress, anxiety, and tightness. This could in fact now describe this non-functionality of Slovenian housing policy, which is experienced by young people at all. Then they went on and, in fact, there were additional questions about the problems you experienced with these apartments or with demand or other things, with other forms of problems they were experiencing. And what was interesting was that, in fact, among those who are tenants, about 28 percent do not even have a regulated rent ratio. Indeed, in this case we see that we have not only a serious problem but, in fact, an entire social problem. It is said that many things work more on the basis of the grey market or also of these unregulated leases. Then they continued to ask these other questions and what was interesting – of course they also wondered how they could see only the state of the country or the problem itself in this main topic of development or the lack of development of housing policy in Slovenia. When they assessed how they would assess, in fact, how much the country contributed, Slovenia said, in regulating these problems, 73 percent responded or considered them insufficient. It is said that the state does not contribute much or almost nothing to solving the problem itself, or the problems that we are talking about today; it is said that the construction or construction of these public apartments, which would not only be necessary, but would also allow for some kind of new social drive and also in fact a very concrete development. A total of 53 respondents then assessed the country's involvement in this issue of housing policy resolution in Slovenia only with a sufficient assessment. Either way we turn the matter around, any side of the coin we look at, in fact, there's nothing on both sides right now. And when we come up with such proposals or even in this case SD, it would really be necessary to give concrete thought or support to this proposal. As the fact that we do not have an orderly housing policy at national level, rather than strategies, has in fact brought this problem even further to the surface at the time of this coronavirus. He revealed even greater problems that lie between people who are looking for an apartment or who are even given an opportunity to rent or any other form of rental for a bibian unit or apartment. Mr Bevk used to talk about this, if I understand correctly – since he was the mayor, I like it when people speak firsthand, from practice. Yeah, actually, there's a big problem with these empty apartments or unused apartments, whatever. According to the answers I read to them earlier, it is also very likely that people live in these apartments without leases. The things that have come to mind at this time, or even to this problem, have in fact proved to be the current privilege of dwellings in Slovenia. In Ljubljana - what I would like to hear from you in Styria - one great luxury and it will really be necessary to bite into this apple, which is really very bitter right now or really wormy because someone will have to face it. Given that no one has actually faced this problem in these years, it is only right to start facing it now if not before. We in Levica or I personally will support this bill. It is true, however, that it will also be necessary within the framework of this law — as has already been said — to look for other options; even when it comes to housing cooperatives. They are not only popular in the world, but they also provide a better quality of life, but are also sustainable, ecologically oriented, self-sustaining. What we miss a lot in Slovenia. However, there is also one aspect which I think Mr Koprivc, in his own explanation, mentioned in a kind way or also called it that we are too focused on the main places or as if everything should be centralised. I think it is really an option to look for opportunities to build apartments and also for these communities or cooperative communities outside the centres of large cities, perhaps even in rural areas. But this has to be done with some kind of professionally structured, reviewed, even certain, and I believe that in Slovenia, given what a person reads and even hears everything, we certainly have expertise. I'm not afraid of that. However, it is true that I fear that this topic was intentional, perhaps because of the policy itself, but also because of the interests that are outside the policy, purely economic, business and others, that it may not have been deliberately built in Slovenia of these rental apartments or non-profit apartments for the reason that prices have been maintained, that prices are still maintained, because actually after 2013 they are actually in Ljubljana, as far as I know, prices have literally jumped into the sky. Some even joke that we're some kind of new New York at a price tag. But there is another matter that is right, and I have already mentioned this several times on another committee, given that we have quite a few good examples or practices close to us; it is said that we now have Gradec, which our fellow communists have taken over in terms of housing construction and have a very well-finished and well-established policy that is already in operation and will be upgraded. Then we have this Vienna again, Berlin is waking up in this direction very well. Then, personally, at least from my point of view, I would turn to Helsinki, and Scandinavia, which is actually leading in this Scandinavian space, when it comes to finding solutions or the best options, how to get to a quality apartment and, of course, the most socially secure or even in Scandinavia, that these apartments are as self-sustaining or as inclusive as possible as possible in the part of the society in which they live. Well, he says, aspects, I think it just opened up. It is right that we begin to seek solutions today or tomorrow when this law is confirmed. But it is like any marriage, of course, still an opportunity to complete it, to amend it, what to add, what to take away. I think we need to start squeezing this test so that something concrete from this will grow as soon as tomorrow at the vote. Support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The proposer wants the word [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] You have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I have a procedural proposal. Given that the representatives of the Government have not been in the Chamber for quite some time, and thus, I do not know, show some contempt or show their attitude towards this area, I would suggest that until the representative of the Government enters the Chamber and listens to the debates and debaters, the meeting be suspended.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I will not do this because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the presence of a representative of the Government is a condition for the holding of the meeting. As you yourself said, this is an indicator of their attitude towards the subject under consideration. But it is true that the hall is quite empty. So, if we're being honest, hand to heart. We continue the debate. Mr. Franci Kepa has the floor. Prepare the mags. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! Housing issues are very complex. The initiative to build 10,000 apartments is attractive, but in such a short time it is unlikely to be feasible. She is welcome, but she is a little late because we have already accepted the amendment of the Housing Fund in May this year with a novel and is also scheduled for up to 2023 and up to 2026 over 5,000 apartments. There are a lot of them in the process of building, so let there be over 400 apartments in Maribor, along the Sava in Kranj 187, Ljubljana 500 apartments, in Maribor will soon be sold, in Celje, Kopr, Jesenica, Slovenj Gradc, Kočev, Črnomlje. In the past, it was probably a non-profit rent that did not, by contrast, raise and offer the Housing Fund some convertible capital, with which it could build apartments more resiliently than now with this change allowing higher debt to the Housing Fund, that is, 50 percent. This will provide an additional 250 million, a considerable amount of money for additional housing. Adaptation of the subsidisation scheme for the protection of socially vulnerable persons, that is correct. This increase from 2.63 to 3.15 will also not be immediate, but will be in two, three years and will also allow those with the lowest income or social benefits to accept it more easily. It is true that the country has decided not only to build centrally, only in Ljubljana, where the biggest demand is, Maribor, Koper, Kranju, but also to build in smaller places in Slovenia, which is right because Ljubljana raises the prices of square. Otherwise, other reasons are likely — not building student homes. There was a rumor at the time that we were going to make 5,000 student beds, and it wasn't going to work. That was a promise 10, 12 years ago. Although they are now being restored, they are in the near past, and they are, but also because of the failure to build student homes, the demand for housing is so high. In addition, this government's initiative to set up a public hire service has not yet taken place, but is expected to take place in a short time. This is an initiative because of a huge number of apartments in one or two elderly homes, and perhaps three floors, perhaps 250, 300 square meters, are hard to maintain, but it is difficult for people to decide to rent for safety and fear of insecurity. Here, the country is expected to play a greater role in security and security, in particular in order for people to decide to rent parts of the house, apartment or even two in the apartment house. This would also provide additional housing. It is true that this is a problem for young people and that the current price of housing, even for purchase, is almost impossible. With such complex receptions, the offer is likely to increase as well as the Housing Fund - we now see and know that it has been building a lot for several years now, and there will also be very short progress for non-profit dwellings here. Well, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Marko Koprivc, and then as the last Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Kepa, once again, you tried to convince us somehow that this marriage is not necessary. You've diverted attention now even to student homes in order to have to build them. You have been talking about these dormitory for some time now, your government is speaking, and I absolutely agree with you that more resources should also be devoted to the construction of new student homes, but unfortunately there will be nothing out of words. And the exact same problem as housing is in the problem of student homes. In fact, you talk a lot about how to build new student homes, even saying that it would take money for NGOs to turn these ugly leftist NGOs into building student homes. Now let's look at the budgets for the next two years. There are no additional funds for student homes anywhere – do you know? And that is the problem with these of your declaration principles, how it is necessary to give to students' homes, how long-term care is needed. Of course, it is necessary to settle, but there is no means. On the other hand, you lower taxes and thus income to the country for student homes, housing policy, long-term care, nursing homes, schools, kindergartens and so on. With regard to this particular law, which is in the process today, which you have very, very little to talk about, I would say only that you agree between yourselves whether it is possible to make it happen or not. Previously, the Secretary of State spoke about the fact that, without additional resources and without law, the construction of these non-profit apartments is somehow being realized, you have now said that this matter cannot be realized and that it will be enough already to establish this rental service and so on, which are things that are absolutely necessary. I repeat, it is not a matter of excluding the law put into the procedure by the Government, this so-called Housing Law, the amendments to this law, and our law. That complemented that one. But not, please, to deceive the public that the changes of the Housing Law have been prepared by this government because they are not there! Because the previous government did, but unfortunately it fell and then you adopted these things, you excluded certain things from the law and are now in the process. But you know. And please don't cheat! One more thing. When the marriage took place in the National Assembly, my vote came because I believe that the solutions in that marriage are good and important, but they are not enough. That is why we have prepared, together with the democratic opposition, the largest housing project in the period of Slovenia alone, which would allow the construction of 10,000 new rental apartments. We're not just talking about Ljubljana, we're not just talking about Maribor. And the law does not specify where these apartments would be built, but it does stipulate that they would be built according to the needs. But it is true that in Ljubljana there are probably more needs than in any smaller place, which does not mean that there is no need. And that does not mean, I repeat, that the price would not have been dropped either on the market for the purchase of apartments or on the market for private rental – in quotations – when more rental apartments were provided for young people. And please don't relativize again. In Slovenia we have a housing crisis that leads to housing poverty. And let's react while it's time. And don't talk back about what you could do. We could all do that. After all, Mr Janez Janša has been Minister of Government and President of the Government three times so far. But you know. And he was in that government that actually privatized and sold out the housing fund that that ugly socialist Yugoslavia built, and we were a model in Europe after how many apartments we had in the social lease. You don't say that today. Nor do you say that the Jasbinsch law was passed in the time of Demos' government; in the time of the government where your current Prime Minister was Minister and supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Kepa, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u157	Maybe Mr. Siter didn't get me right. I welcome every initiative. But the thing is, maybe you've prepared a case, too, but this year this government has only accepted it. We have accepted, this government has accepted. And after this pace, by 2028 10,000 apartments will be built and by 2026 5,000 will be built and by 2028-2029 another 5,000 will be built. So this will already be realized, which is the proposal here, no. But any initiative is probably welcome, so it is. But you must have accepted something else, but this is where our government accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Just for a magnetogram repair, you gave the replica to Mr. Koprivac, not to Mr. Siter. That's it. Now for the final debater. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Secretary of State and all those who insist on this very important topic! I was very disturbed, but I think 90 percent of that time in the hall was trying to show how the coalition claims that there is no housing problem. On the contrary. The Coalition knows that there is a housing problem and that it is necessary to approach it not only with beautiful words but primarily with actions. And the actions are visible. This is, as has been mentioned many times today, the law, the housing law that we adopted just before summer. I will not go into what was the law proposed by the Sharčev government, and what was the law that was eventually adopted, but in that law proposed by the Sharčev government, there were also concepts of restricting the private offer and increasing the rent tax. Thus, we have thrown quite a few of these things out in our article proposals, in our own words, and put in life and housing needs a more appropriate diction. I will not discuss this again, or too little has been said today about what the Housing Law of May this year has brought. So, an increase in the public rent fund, a fair non-profit rent and more housing funds. Therefore, I am saddened that apparently some feel that this law that is before us today is just an upgrade to this law. With all due respect. First of all, 1.3 billion is not a small upgrade to the law, but it is a fundamental intervention to something not only in the SDS Group but also to the government, we do not think necessary. That it's happening. Yes, if almost nothing has been done between 2015 and 2019 or 340 apartments have been built, these same representatives of this KUL coalition are now talking about how they will do 10,000 in the next six years and have not done 400 in the next five years. With all due respect to the proposer, Comrade Koprivec, I do not believe this. Now, I'm not going to be here looking at magnetograms of what you, especially the Social Democrats, always said at the time of the opposition, but when the coalition came that did something, you had problems. How we didn't do anything else. We are only in our so-called apartment marriage – one of us even said, the Mahnik's marriage – when we tried to visit state apartments, there would be more apartments than you made in 2015 until 2019. In short, it was said that there would be nothing out of words. Words become flesh. Today the neighborhood, I think, New Brdo, let some Ljubljanan forgive me if I said wrong – 500 new public rental apartments. Public rents; not market rents, but public rentals. In short, we are talking about pressing issues today, and on the other hand, the Ljubljanans have cut the tapes and opened 500 apartments. This is 150 more dwellings than some are promised in the 2015 to 2019 mandate. And not just that! I must say that I am very pleased that, above all, Minister Vizjak has confirmed to us, on several occasions, that there have been talks with the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia already in January and that the Government has confirmed this readiness of the Housing Fund and their business policy, which means 5,000 new rental apartments by 2025. Thus we are not as opposed to each other as it may seem, but what you are writing in the laws, what will happen after 2023, we have been implementing in the government since 2020, and I believe that even in the next term. And if we are to meet somewhere, Comrade Koprivc, there in 2026 and when you see that 5,000 and more apartments were built, you may be aware that yes, this debate today was very necessary, but more is needed to see something on the ground. Perhaps today I am also a little sad that we were too limited, at least personally I had this feeling, in Ljubljana, of these prices in Ljubljana, which are a little smaller on the coast, and a little smaller in Maribor. As I said before, in the position of the SDS Group, housing problems are not only a problem in Ljubljana, on the coast or in Maribor, there are also many other places. We had a meeting of the municipal council in Sevnica last week, where both investors and the public and the municipality were fighting, or – I think – building 44 or 60 or more apartments for the market, and believe me, it would have been sold. In short, these prices, which are now said to be about 150 000 euros for an old used apartment, about 40, 50 square blocks; once again, with all due respect to people from Ljubljana: Posavije is nice, Goričko is nice, Prekmurje is nice. I believe that colleague Lenart and colleague Prednik will probably invite someone to Koroška, not only people will move out, but they will also move. I am sure that, for example, 150 000 euros, they can offer them much more than Ljubljana, one small two-bedroom apartment, or even this two-bedroom apartment. The only thing I'm really happy about today, and here I think we all agree, is this debate about how we have too many unoccupied apartments in our country and how to solve it. And on the other hand, the way we have too many people, even though I understand them, I own my own house, we are so emotionally attached to our apartment or to our own house, that, because of material costs or other life matters, we do not want to hear about selling or renting. When I was an expert associate in the 2004-2008 mandate and I was once called by a lady, and I don't even know which law, and she said how ugly this government is that we don't listen to the elderly. She has an apartment in Ljubljana 80 square meters and that with her husband in older years they are no longer able to pay all the costs of rent. As a young expert with no ideological backgrounds, of course, I said, yes, ma'am, I understand you, but 80 square feet may be a lot, even though I give them to you and I believe that you have earned money to have this apartment. But maybe there's a younger family somewhere with one or two children who would probably go from 40 square feet to 80 square feet and they would be willing to take credit and gradually repay it instead of being 40 square owners of 80. Perhaps, however, it would be easier for you, especially for all costs, to live in 40 square meters, and not least for the Ljubljana situation, the lady would also make a very good living, and probably at least for old years, if not before, she could afford a lot. And I will not mention the words that usually end with mmm, pippipipi, what I have suggested to this lady, and I have only suggested to her what is one of the key problems. In short, people do not even feel that they live in a house or in an apartment and that this apartment or this house has some financial value not only in a social or other sense. In order not to be too long, I will return to the previous law, where you are similar discussers who are rooting for this law, are critical to the Income Act, with which I am probably at least a thousand apartments, personally convinced that it would be less empty or that taxes would be paid from these apartments. For every tax paid in the state budget is better than for example to be paid in black. In short, I think that more than a debate on public rentals will have to be considered in the future, whether our government, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours, rights, or any other way to tackle the issue of front-line broadcasting, how might financial mechanisms somehow force these people to pay taxes. After all, what a fellow Reich had already said with numbers, how to fill empty apartments that are owned by someone. Why do people squander apartments? Perhaps this debate, which has been going on after a ton with regard to real estate taxes today, needs serious consideration, but the fact that I understand people who have built something that they want to have for themselves, but sometimes something has to be cut here too. In short, you're proposing 1.3 billion in the next 10 or 9 years for 10,000 public rental apartments. We argue that in the next four years we will build at least 5,000 public rental apartments without 1.3 billion. Once again: I am very glad that in the procedure both the Law on the regulation of premises and the Construction Law, which also play an important role in this area. At least those who are municipal councilors know how many times we meet at meetings of the municipal council with municipal spatial plans, with municipal spatial detailed plans, and when months and months pass when I am called on social networks or asked by young people when the UN will be adopted, I have given the role in 2016, but we are still not waiting and waiting for different consents from different ministries. There, young people would build private apartments, especially private houses, but not wait, as it may be, for the state to build, and then have the role to play, and for cheap broadcasting. So unfortunately, colleague Koprivc, a very good debate, I must say that most of the time a very correct and concrete debate was held, but a little too much may have been seen from this point of view by Ljubljana-Ljubljana. And they may have watched too much about this law or even started off as proponents in the wrong frame of mind, but this is how to solve public rentals, not how to solve housing problems in the private field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, he's got a government representative. You don't want to. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Marko Koprivc, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Vice President, for the last word today. Much has been said about the housing issue and I think that the debate has been fruitful, and I hope that it will also have some concrete consequences, or that the law that the Social Democrats, together with the democratic opposition, will see the light of the world, or at least in the first stage, will survive this first reading and will be confirmed by the National Assembly for further consideration. Mr Lisec, if you'll excuse me, because you've been the last debater, I might like to repeat to you briefly in this part. Indeed, you have repeatedly warned today and even in previous discussions that this government is or has recently been building more public rental apartments. Of course that's true, but it's not the result of your government. You're bragging about how it's being built right now. This has nothing to do with your government. First of all, it has links to the National Housing Programme, which was adopted in 2015 under the left-wing Cerar government. And it was only then, unfortunately, that it was not until then that it was agreed that housing funds should be built exclusively for public rent. Until then, housing funds can also function as some sales agencies on the market, which is absolutely unacceptable and absurd. That was when this policy began to be clearly implemented in this direction that housing funds were building for rent. Another important step was this law that we have drawn up. Now it's a ping-pong thing, and it's an insignificant end to it, whether it's the Sharq or your government; the fact is that the law has been prepared, and it's accepted by your government. This law is also important, especially for local housing funds, because it has enabled them to be more indebted. But the key problem is not solved. The key problem is the issue of resources. We need to provide more resources for public rentals. We have a housing crisis in Slovenia that leads to housing poverty. This can only be solved by seriously starting to build additional public rental apartments. We need an additional 10,000 public rental apartments. You're talking about building 5,000. These apartments are listed. The waiting lists are long, both at local housing funds and in the Republic for public rental. In addition, we need additional resources, and this is our law, which follows the Danish model. We do not detect hot water, we have said this, only by means of the Danish model do we want to provide housing policy to anyone who wants to get to a public rental apartment so that it can come at an affordable price. At an affordable price. And that's all we're saying. My colleague Lisec – I am sorry that you are leaving – even this saying that we are working only for Ljubljana is not true. It is true in this part that the interest in Ljubljana and the major cities is probably the greatest for public rentals, but the law in no way restricts or stipulates that it works for Ljubljana or anyone else. The law doesn't specify that at all. The law provides for an invitation to tender on the basis of the needs and will choose on the basis of the invitation to tender where additional public rentals are needed. I would like to ask that we see together as a society, as a policy, that there is something that needs to be done in the area of housing. On average, given the average in the European Union, we are investing in the field of public rentals, we do not have any strategy designed to guide housing policy. And it is high time, even after this severe health crisis, which is now deepening into the energy crisis, the food crisis and so on, that this area is time-consumingly plagued and prevented by disaster. People have no place to live, Slovenia is a social state and it is therefore essential that we allow our citizens and citizens a decent stay. The model of the Danube, which has been under the leadership of the Social Democrats for many years, can set an example for us and after this model we have drawn up a law in the opposition. But you say a lot about what should be done, you do some simple and ineffective measures of debt-sharing, and you would like to tax rich people while talking about concrete cases, how to invest money in public housing policy, for public housing, and you say that there is no need to do so and that things will be resolved in the market anyway. They're not getting away, and it's high time we intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 October, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item — First of all, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 34 Members and Members with the first signed by Nataša Sukić. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Natasha Sukić, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Natashi Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! In Levica together with LMŠ and SD again, for the fourth time, we have been proposing a total legal ban on fracking, hydraulic fracturing in the territory of Slovenia, which would prevent plans by British multinational Ascent Resources for drilling in Premurje Petišovci. The reason for the reintroduction of the law is the conduct of the Government, which has so far openly supported the dirty capital, and, according to the new one, it is trying to hide its support under the supposed and meaningless gestures to protect the environment. For the government confirms its own proposal for amendments to the Mining Act, which prohibits only large-scale hydraulic fracturing and establishes some kind of separation between the cracking that threatens the surrounding water resources and the cracking that does not. The establishment of such a separator is completely irrelevant and misleading, not Ascent Resources, nor Minister Visjak, nor anyone else can guarantee that slapping is safe. It is easy to declare a fracturing as safe in a corporate statement for the public or in a government document, to remedy the consequences of an accident that may lead to environmental degradation and endangering the health of the local population, and to pollute groundwater with hydrocarbons, injected chemicals, toxic substances or individual earthquake in the vicinity of fracturing. Any implementation of corrective or pardonary measures is in such depths, in Petišovci it is a depth of 3 000 500 meters, virtually impossible. The British corporation Ascent Resources has been hurting itself for almost 20 years to crack in Petišovci. It is a dirty technology that is found to be devastating to the environment and health of the local population abroad. The British have been working for decades to obtain all the necessary permits from the country to forge profits at the expense of the polluted environment and the inhabitants and residents of Petišov and the wider region. Even threats and extortions by government officials and illegal and unacceptable pressure on government officials have been used. The municipality of Lendava called for a legal ban on fracking. This is what environmental NGOs call us to do, and we are invited by the premurk civil initiative to ban cracking, and all of this has been for the ruling coalition so far Bob against the wall. Therefore, in Levica, together with the other opposition parties, we insist and re tabled the amendment of the Mining Act and demanded a general debate in which the public should see why the British Corporation Ascent Resources has great confidence in this coalition and why people do not have it. As soon as the government in Slovenia took over Janez Janša's government and set the line to protect the nature of strongly hostile ministers, such as Zdravko Pozvalšek and Andrej Vizjak, we announced that the Ascent Resources Corporation could hope that their lobbying, pressures and threats with lawsuits would produce fruit. As in the case of an attempt to amend the Water Act, the government wants to disguise the mitigation of restrictions as a concern for the environment. The recent outcome of the referendum on water proves how underestimating these attempts are. Therefore, the government should not consider the inhabitants of Petišovtev, Prekmurje and Slovenia to be naive. A complete and unconditional ban on fracking in Slovenia is the only solution that anyone can defend that is truly in the interest of protecting the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Mihelič, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and, with the exception of Brussels, to deliver the opinion from the seat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good evening! And thank you very much for understanding that I can present the government's position from here. Well-known Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! The group of Members and Members with the first signed Mrs Nataša Sukič is 9th. 9. 2021 The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. They proposed to supplement Article 6 of the Mining Act by adding a new third paragraph proposing that it would not be possible to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. They also propose, in the transitional and final provisions, that existing research and mining and concessional acts and applications for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons comply with the provisions of the amended law within three months of the entry into force of the amendment of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the proposed law, we can see that the text is not appropriate because it allows for the injection of all other media. Injecting a certain amount of water with additives is an essential component of oil and natural gas production, as well as drilling of wells. The deep drilling of wells, including wells drilled for geological and geomechanical research, for example, for construction purposes, is carried out by a flush that lifts drilled particles and maintains the stability of the well. Concession acts may be amended, but only in certain cases, if the conditions laid down in the Constitution are met, for example, taking into account the principle of trust in law, which is based on the principle of the legal basis. We don't think this condition has been met. The text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of interference with acquired rights. Only one concession contract for the exploitation of oil and natural gas is issued in the Republic of Slovenia. For the use of hydrocarbons by water injections, the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation provides that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out for these parts. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and by the French Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the secretaries, colleagues, colleagues! The Government considers that the proposals are not suitable for further consideration. The draft law provides that it is not possible to obtain a permit for mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added pressure additives. The proposed text allows for the injection of all other media. In addition, minimal injection of water with additives is essential in the production of oil and natural gas. In deep drilling, geological or geomechanical research, drilling takes place with flushing, which raises neutral particles and maintains the stability of the well. The proposal for a law in Article 2 provides for coordination with the provisions of the amendment to the current permit for research and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons; it is possible to amend concessional acts if the conditions laid down in the Constitution are met. The bill seeks to align existing licences with the provisions of the draft law. There are no such permits at the moment. The draft law does not provide for the harmonisation of existing licences. If the proposal for a law were to seek such harmonisation, the law should adequately address the recovery of the concessionaire's funds because it would extend to his rights. When adopting the proposed amendments, we reach out to the rights of concessionaires, and the intervention is controversial because of the protection of the principle of respect for the law, which arises from Article 2 of the Constitution and the rule of law. The opinion of the Government is that the proposal for a law is not properly formulated and the financial consequences of the rights acquired are not taken into account. It is known that there is currently only one concession in Slovenia for the use of oil and natural gas. This was signed or signed under the left government at the time of the Drnovskov government in 2002. This signed concession for the exploitation of oil and gas shall expire on 28 May 2022; it shall be in good half a year so that, without the environmental consent obtained, hydraulic fracturing cannot be carried out. This concession also gives rise to a decision on exploitation and does not state that hydrocarbons are used to inject water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. Such interventions are already limited by environmental legislation. Prior to such an intervention, environmental consensus must be obtained and an influential environment must be carried out. This is mandatory for certain measures due to size and scope, the Environmental Assessment Regulation, specifically for the use of hydrocarbons by water injections, where it is planned to inject thousands of cubic metres or more into the breaking phase or seven thousand cubic metres or more per well throughout the process of breaking and extracting oil or natural gas, where the quantity consumed exceeds 500 tonnes per day in the case of oil and 500 cubic metres in the case of gas. Now, at the time of this government, this is a second attempt to deviate from oil and gas use and consequently – a derogation from the signed concession contract. This contract was just signed by those left-wing parties who wanted it to stop. Whether the main purpose is to point to the perpetrator for interrupting this government or, above all, to obtain funds from the commission for unilateral termination of the contract from the company Ascent Resources or any intermediary. Our client will not support this and we are confident that time will prevent greater damage to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be moved by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u169	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow us through the television screens! We are raising very important questions today because we are setting a precedent for the future. Let us ask ourselves a few questions first and not present in the position of the party the position of the Government – twice we have heard the same thing now – how much health costs? Does health have a price? What's the cost of the environment, fellows leaving? Does it have a price? How valuable are we, in fact, to the people living in this environment? These are the key questions the economists are looking for. But one is a numerical estimate, a numerical estimate of what one person is worth, and the other is its actual value. Life is priceless. Health is priceless. The environment is priceless. That is why in the LMŠ Group we find it very incomprehensible that this constant fracking in Petišovci. It is incomprehensible for us to constantly reject the proposal to ban proven harmful mining methods in Slovenia. Incomprehensible and illogical! Because any such rejection indicates, above all, that we can count on one side the benefits and on the other side the dangers. We even heard about certain commissions today. Shame on you, dear fellows and colleagues, and so are you. Why is that? If we have said and all of us are defending this, that health is our greatest value, and now, suddenly, the law is not appropriate, it is weak, and concessional relations cannot change. Yeah, here's the key. The concession is the key. Here's the point. The Constitution guarantees us, as citizens, the right to drinking water and the right to a clean environment. And now the concession act will be more important than the constitution! And the argument you put out doesn't hold up any normal real – yeah, it's very funny, buddy, very funny, even under the mask you see when you're laughing, you know. Yeah, it's a position. The arguments we're listening to are overpriced. They point to the priorities, the real priorities of this government, these policies. The important thing is concession, they're not important people! Only in this mandate – I'm not a long politician, I'm not a long time – for the fourth time now we're talking about the same law with the same argument, for the same reasons why now what is not possible is not good, is not systemic. But we do not decide on the law, we decide which rights are more important: the rights of concession holders or the rights of people living in Petišovci. That's what we're weighing today. And we've weighed it three times and we'll weigh it until we weigh it for the benefit of the people. We won't stop if the marriage falls on the first reading today. What have we all heard as an argument? Why do you have to reject the marriage ban? But the victory of the obvious, since we have already heard them, no, the obvious that changing legislation is because of one single case, we have heard this today both by the Government and by the position of respected colleagues from the SDS, is not meaningful. One thing doesn't make sense. All of it, without making it funny, it's absurd, it's actually an absurd thing. The systemicity of packaging the solution into the system law is discussed by the coalition, which in a bad year issued nine intervention laws, in which there is not even a shred of systemicity, but very easily interferes with all times of life. The issue of nature protection is not a matter of systemic regulation, but it is a matter of a system of values. This system and these values are not perceived here, not in the argument of why this law is not good, not in actual actions. It is not values because it is only value; only one letter of difference is, but very important! Therefore, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we must not allow harmful interference into the environment, especially when it is not fully clear what the consequences are. The Administrative Court has concluded that an environmental impact assessment and environmental authorisation are necessary to obtain gas from the cracking method in the Petišov field. And what happened? When the court decides to do so, the concession holder says you're stalling and we'll be demanding compensation right now. But if we want to make sure what really hurts our people, at some professional level, is stalling, is blackmail? And then you talk to people like that and negotiate with them on the other side. It's not just a question of credibility, it's a matter of value and value. We have already burned ourselves too often in Slovenia by lowering environmental standards due to the so-called public interest. Let's just look at Magno, let's just think back quickly. Almost an empty factory on top of Styria's finest working land, in the water protection area, if I'm not mistaken, it went through brilliantly. Again, a system of values, of values. Let's take a look at my place. At Poček, which is a aquifer for 20,000 people in Slovenia, military activities are still under way. The DN has been promising the state for decades, and even the Constitutional Court has repealed it, and nothing. There's no water protection regulation, it's not moving. A few months ago, we talked about the urgent need to ensure safe and good water supply for the coastal area. No! No! You'd rather deal with how to find the arguments attracted to hair, why this law banning fracking is not good. Okay. The shortest way we're going to pull people away is because today I'm here with people, I'm not a politician. Therefore, it is not a question of whether compensation will have to be paid to concession holders, investors today. This will be decided by the courts, this is not a matter for Parliament. The question is whether the National Assembly will allow such practice for future use at all costs. Sorry, I'm sure there's no money, there's no money to replace a healthy environment and clean water. The only way we see it for the fourth time is to legally protect Petishovka and the people with a total legal ban on fracking. In the LMŠ Group we support this legal prohibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u171	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, the rest of you present, welcome. I need to tell you something from my heart. I feel the same way when we discussed whether to include the Premur language in the Slovenian national programme. And you were united on this side, with the exception of Joseph Horvath, against. Of course, we fell on the committee responsible because of the situation, and fortunately, Members and Members of some other parties finally assured us enough votes to prove to you that the Premur language is in fact a literary language. It is a shame, however, that we had to prove it again in 2021, but we have proved it and thank you all. This was just one of the proofs that the heart of Prekmurje is really far from Ljubljana. When I say Ljubljana, I don't mean Ljubljana. This is where they gave us their own square. I mean, the Ljubljana Authority, which represents Slovenia. This is a historical experience and you know that Maribor is treated similarly. And today, when I talk again about the ban on harmful technology that is most threatening to Prekmurje, it is clear to me why again, for the fourth time, I say: because we are far from Ljubljana the most! If this harmful technology were in the heart of Slovenia or elsewhere where you are more frequently located, we would be in that group of countries where it would have been banned long ago – to understand each other! Now I want to read something to you. We've been working on fracking a lot of time, but to understand the story, I want to read you a question that I, Mr Vice-President, have asked on 17 December 2020; that is, almost a year from then. This is what I wrote down somewhere. Dear Minister, for the third time this week, the National Assembly has not voted to amend the Mining Act, by which we wanted to ban the use of dirty and dangerous fragmentation technologies in Slovenia. The result of the vote on the bill was 41 to 41. I assume, however, that such a result, even because of the words and promises of your Secretary of State, is here by the present Mr Aleš Mihelič, who has been citing the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly all the time that he has stated that a better system of rules is already in place. I now quote: "As we have already explained twice, a comprehensive regulation of the mining area is being prepared, including this domain proposed in this bill. I can show that the proposal is made and will go to public hearing this week.” Again, he repeatedly stressed, quote again: “We have prepared a system regime and we absolutely support all efforts to resolve the subject, but here we need the right approach.” And he also shared some encouraging words that he absolutely did not hold to talking about the dangers of hydraulic fragmentation and repeated: “When the Ministry prepares the law, it will put it into public discussion this week. You will all accept it, have access to it, make comments.” The day after these encouraging words I thought, at last we Prekmurci, understood here in the heart of Slovenia, have referred the following question, two in essence. First: “I call on you to immediately submit to the public your proposal for a system law prohibiting hydraulically crushed people in Slovenia, as you promised Members and Members of Parliament and probably prevented the adoption of our law.” Why did I write so diplomatic? Because at least two MPs who voted against the Fraking ban, they told me in the hallway, so we voted because we will ban fracking with our government law. If that were not the case, it would not be 41 :41, but it would be 43 to 39 in favour of us who want to protect Prekmurje, and with this the whole of Slovenia. Then the second question: "and to explain clearly your system solution, which will protect us in Prekmurje, Pomurje and throughout Slovenia from dirty and dangerous technology." [[…]] Then comes the answer on December 23rd. This is fast, I appreciate it, the government is sometimes three, four months late, which is, by the way, contrary to the rules of procedure of this National Assembly, and I do not mind that there has been a few days late. That's what happens when we get into public debate, but that, look at him, let's have a shock. Fracking is suddenly no longer fracking! Suddenly, the conclusion that there is a certain limit of 10,000 cubic metres of water in the whole or at least a thousand cubic metres in a single phase. If it's below that limit, then fracking isn't cracking and it's not jeopardizing anything. But if it is above that limit, it becomes deadly and must be banned. Of course forget to write here that this huge cracking in Slovenia is not possible anyway. Maybe that's a limited one. From here on out, you start to convince us why this fracking is not dangerous – but by the way, every cracking is dangerous – you start to convince us that in fact, the country that we list, that cracking is forbidden, we do not understand well. Of course, we as the opposition have what options? First, to contact our friends abroad to tell us what was done there. We have the opportunity to directly ask governments where our governments are and also to communicate with NGOs abroad and to send us through all three channels where fracking is prohibited. The Ministry denies it. We ask again abroad. Even state secretaries in some countries that are our prowess reaffirm that it is prohibited. Look at him, the Ministry: he didn't forbid it! We have no choice but to ask you to make a confrontation. I think it was April. How many days, how many months has it been since? We have no choice but to confront your views, to bring in experts who taught us, where everything is, and why it is forbidden. The argument, which is also used and wrong, is the following, yes, because it was once permitted. Maybe. But once, atrazine, which causes cancer, was also allowed. Once upon a time, DDT was also allowed, which is even more dangerous! And by the way, there were once various poisons that harmed bees, and we banned them first in Slovenia; because things are changing because science is also making progress and trying to protect us. I, honourable Members, hope that this government will do what it has promised, will slowly lose. I am losing because the attitude towards Prekmurje on this issue, as far as the language is concerned, about the national issue, is such that it is offensive to this government, and you, honourable Members, please, as you have allowed us in Prekmurje to be proud and recognized by the Prekmur language, protect us once again by voting for the ban on fracking in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! See, in Levica we are a very simple position and also the other co-proposers of this law amending the Mining Act. Indeed, we are thinking that the consequences of fracking around the world are clearly known, clearly known. They are destructive, harmful, this form of energy-generating needs to be stopped and they do it all over the world. In fact, it is known that the price of gas production in a fracturing way is destruction. In Slovenia this means the destruction of Prekmurje and the wider consequences for our space. It means destroying agriculture, water, space and, above all, health and life. For what? For profit! For who? To a foreign corporation! I'm asking. In a short time, we will decide that coal, lignite, will no longer be dug into the future and will no longer be smoked in the Šostanj Termoelectrica. That this government, which is thus acting on fracking and initiatives to stop cracking, may not find that lignite can continue to dig up in Slovenia, it will only export. This will be done by a foreign corporation, and thus jobs will be maintained in the Shaleska Valley. That's all we expect. And with all these negative consequences, which are clear, we deal with this four times already — four times! – and you really have to be either deaf or you don't understand the professional thing, or you have to ask yourself this. With all the consequences that this generation of gas will cause in Slovenia, the government will come back with the view that the proposal for amendments to the Mining Act is legally prepared in an inadequate manner and that this government cannot therefore confirm it and disagrees with the proposal. With regard to this negative case of the practice of acquiring energy in the future in the event that this coalition, where the Prekmurci, including Mr Horvat Jožef, are sitting, will vote, is unfortunately not here today to help protect Prekmurje, but the government does nothing. And because he does nothing, because of the potential destruction in the future and in the lives and health of people, it is also a crime for us. This crime will probably have to be dealt with at an appropriate level in a country where we also have judicial authority. And, see, the law, as formerly said by colleague Natasha, called on the municipality of Lendava, called on environmental organisations, and many others. This is a unified opinion throughout our country. When we first considered this proposal for amendments to the Mining Act in October, the Government, as it is now, did not want to define the content of the proposal. He's not defining! Clearly, he's looking for legal excuses. In an opinion that was then sent to the National Assembly, they wrote that our solutions would only be studied. Apparently, they've already studied some of them. The ruling coalition on the ban on fracking refused to discuss it, and even today, after how many people there are from the coalition, that is how it is. When considering the law on the committee at the time, they remained silent and voted against it exclusively, which was the only debate. Finally, on the written question raised by the Government in relation to the Fracking in Prekmurje, the disputed method by which this British Petroleum Corporation seeks to benefit from profits on the account of environmental desertification in Prekmurje, but between the lines we can understand in the government response that the Government of Natural Gas Fracking in Petišovci is quietly supporting. This position justifies that the Petišovsko Polje is located on the sandstone and that the natural gas reserves represent the potential to reduce Slovenia's energy dependence and that, therefore, Petišovci's gas is in the public interest, although we know that this gas will be pumped by a foreign corporation which is mainly interested in profit. Then where will this gas land, however, is the fact that it depends on who executes it. We must say that in its opinion the Government fully takes for its arguments the arguments of the Corporation from England Ascent Resources on the risk of fracking in the Petiškov field and this argument is based on the distinction between the implementation of fracking on sandstones and shale. Look, the cracking that will take place on the sandstone, where the Petišovci are, as has already been said by my predecessors today, leaves irreparable consequences in the environment. This was clearly identified by the Dutch in Groningen, where it is also obtained in this way, by fracking. On the basis of evidence — the link between earthquakes, damage to buildings, local populations and fracking — this Dutch government has also announced in 2018 that more than 200 companies producing gas in the groning field must stop pumping within four years. While because of all the problems caused by the cracking of sandstones in the Netherlands — such as in Petišovci — and the Dutch government has decided to ban further cracking, our government uncritically sums up corporate arguments on the risk of cracking on sandstones in Prekmur. And it keeps going, it keeps going, it keeps going. Finally, I would just like to say a few words about how it would be better to regulate the ban on fracking, as has already been presented here in the National Assembly, in the Environmental Protection Act, which also comes out somehow of the government's previous replies to the written question on the ban on cracking in Slovenia. However, this position was already expressed in our National Assembly. In fact, the Environmental Protection Act is a general law, and the Mining Act is a lex specialis that concerns only mining and not other interventions into the environment, so of course it is only right that specific prohibitions and restrictions on mining are regulated, as proposed in the Mining Act. Therefore, the adoption of the law we are proposing is the only and most appropriate way to ban this invasive method of natural gas production, which has already been banned and in one way or another has been restricted by many European countries or countries around the world. Indeed, it is through the vote on this law that the attitude towards the country and the people, Members and Members of Parliament and the people we represent in this national assembly will be shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u175	Hall of Fame, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act proposes a ban on the extraction of hydrocarbons by means of a cracking method in order to prevent the authorisation of exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. It is a process of breaking rocks by injecting water and chemicals under great pressure into wells, but it can have harmful effects on the environment and human health. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the issue of hydraulic rock breaking and consequently the negative impact on the environment and health of people should be solved by profession and not by politics. The use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure is already limited by environmental legislation, since environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus are necessary before such an action is initiated. Finally, the European Parliament Resolution of 21. 11. 2012 confirms the environmental impact of shale gas and oil at the source that this is an expert issue where all environmental, public health and climate change impacts need to be verified. According to expert Miha Valentinčič of Geoenergo, the process of breaking the layers of sandstones that are used in the extraction of oil and gas in Petišovci is mistakenly compared to the hydraulic treatment of large-scale shale shale, or cracking, which is carried out in the United States, where hard geological structures are involved and requires a large quantity of water with chemical impurities for a successful process. This is a huge burden for the environment. But when we talk about geological structures in Prekmurje, where sandstones with poor permeability, they need a significantly smaller amount of water that has a minimal environmental impact. In addition, chemical impurities have recently been replaced by natural materials. In Germany, the process of breaking the layers of sandstones in the law has been defined as conventional fracturing and is lawful under law, while the process of breaking the layers of harder shale rocks is defined as so-called non-conventional cracking and is prohibited. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of the interference with the already acquired rights of the sole concessionaire for oil and natural gas, as the contract expires on 28 May 2022. Without a legal environmental permit, it cannot carry out hydraulic cracking of stones until then. The Government also considered the text of the bill to be inappropriate, allowing all other media to be injected. In addition, injecting a certain amount of water with additions is an essential component of oil and natural gas production, as well as drilling of wells. The deep drilling of wells, including wells drilled for geological and geomechanical research, is carried out with a flush that lifts the drilled particles and maintains the stability of the well. Due to all the above mentioned Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats We cannot support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you, too. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u177	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Guests invited, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! A healthy environment, environmental protection and human security and their right to a clean environment will always be put first in the SAB Group. Our efforts have always been focused on this, with the year 2016 to be highlighted when the right to drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution on our initiative. The harmfulness of fracking technology recognizes an increasingly large part of Europe. It's not an assumption that it's harmful, it's a fact. Its effects are reflected in various environmental impacts. There is an increase in bio-seismic activity, possession, water pollution, if I only mention some. There is no doubt that we support the proposal to ban fracking in the SAB Group, but we believe that it is essential to discuss in the debate why permission has been granted to a particular company that has an appetite associated with fracking. After all, the company’s claim also has a legal basis in this fact that an authorisation has been granted. In the SAB Group, we have also pointed out in the previous examinations of the law that it is absurd already to talk about the sequence of events, as was the case in a particular case involving fracking. We have warned that the basic sin is the fact that an official can begin a procedure with which he is not well aware. This can be totally unacceptable and inappropriate in procedures with such sensitive and far-reaching consequences as fracking. The very example we are talking about is a reminder of what can happen if common sense and expertise are disregarded and things can be triggered through administrative procedure. Such cases are later resolved through environmental impact assessments and environmental consent requirements, but the fact that they should be stopped is immediately at the beginning. For a specific case, we have proposed that the Ministry find that, unless the applicant submits the requested documentation within the time limit, it finds that the applicant does not wish to continue the procedure and concludes it and ends it. In all three aspects of the law, the State secretaries stress that the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive regulation of the mining field and will also address this area. At the end of last year, the law was last sent to public hearing, but it was again complicated. The solution proposed by the Ministry in connection with hydraulic fracturing has already been discussed. In the opinion of the Government, it would already be sufficient to prohibit large-scale hydraulic fracturing, which in practice means that cracking would still be permissible under certain conditions. Thus, in September it became clear that our disagreement with the content was no longer essential, since the law was rejected at the government's meeting. This means that we are at the beginning and that, at the Ministry's possible explanations, to prepare their proposal and that the change of law due to one problem is not rational, we cannot agree. We understand that there are more problems with this law and that some other legal shortcomings need to be addressed, but we all know how the law is changing and unfortunately there is no time. We trust the Minister to prepare a new version, but we do not see the problem of why we could not address such a pressing issue as the ban on fracking in a separate law and, as soon as possible, legislate this ban on the environment's extremely harmful methods of hydrocarbon production. If the Ministry considers that the law is incomplete because it allows other media to be injected into the process of hydrocarbon production, we propose that it be complemented accordingly or done by coalition groups on their proposal. Members of the SAB Group disagree with the Government, which considers the law inadequate. So we do not agree with the Government's position, so we will devote our support to it in the vote and therefore consider it appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u179	Good evening, everybody! For the fourth time, opposition parties have tabled a proposal to prohibit hydraulic fracturing in Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the plans of the British oil and gas drilling company in Petišovci need to be prevented. We note that the exclusive interest of the British is in profit, without regard to Slovenian health and nature. We are concerned that in our Pomurje, this British society has been trying for some time to get a green light for the execution of the fracking that would have a negative impact on the health of the Slovenians. We are under the impression that the British require 120 million euros in compensation from Slovenia because they have not been granted permission to destroy Slovenia and that they should suffer economic damage. We must not accept the interests of the British in any way, for in Prekmurje we should not allow them to exploit anything, let alone consent to any blackmail. Certain studies have even demonstrated the link between fracking and earthquakes, where the Dutch government even admitted that the earthquake in Groningen was the fault of fracking. In the Slovenian National Party, we are interested in whether Ascent Resources would compensate for the damage caused in the event of an earthquake in Slovenia. We are also absolutely in favour of those NGOs, societies that are fighting environmentally harmful fracturing. In Slovenia, oil and natural gas are mined in Petišovci, which is an ecologically sensitive area. Harmful influences touch Nature 2000 and the Mura biosphere, where Unesco recognized its extraordinary natural wealth. It is true that the prohibition of fracking is also justified in terms of the precautionary principle of safety. In the Slovenian National Party, we are scrupulously opposed to earthquakes, groundwater pollution, drinking water with toxic substances and destroying the most fertile finger. Many examples from abroad suggest that there could definitely be irreparable destruction of our environment, which would also endanger our nature’s restoration capabilities. Slovenia is not a self-sufficient country, so it is very important that every citizen has something to come to his home country and knows what to put on his plate. Greater weight or importance must be given to natural resources, water, air that enable the existence of all living things on earth. As a responsible company, we must stop using fossil fuels to meet our energy needs if we are interested in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Let us strictly respect international obligations and not forget the objective of implementing the Paris Climate Agreement on the conservation of global warming under 1.5 degrees Celsius. Other countries are becoming sensitized, informed, so they are increasingly being taken to ban or limit this method of hydrocarbon production precisely because of prevention in order to protect the environment, health and property of humans. Why should this example not yet be followed by Slovenia, we ask you. Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State shall take care of a healthy living environment and Article 73 that the State and the local communities shall ensure the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage. Degraded areas such as Anhovo, Velenje, Vrhnika, Celje we already have too many. It is in the public interest that the current permits for research and mining rights be harmonised in order to protect the rights of the people there who have a constitutional right to a healthy living environment. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to emphasise that this is really a very topical topic, so we hope that the debate will take place in the desired direction of a good outcome. If I add a final thought: let us keep in mind healthy people before the interests of greed and dirty capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We're done with the presentation. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Robert Pavšič has the word, to prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, today it will be almost embarrassing to have this debate so brief as to talk about a marginal problem that does not exist at all. Last time I watched it on TV was our famous Greta. You know what she said to politicians when they were looking for reasons why there was nothing to be done? She only used three letters and used them repeatedly: blah, blah, blah, blah. Today, when we have a real opportunity as a politician to do something, not just talk, there are reasons why not. The reasons are back in three letters: blah, blah, blah. Even though it's the fourth round with the same content, you haven't convinced me! There's not one argument that would be weighty to say, okay, but here I might even think a little bit about the need to fix the law. No! No! You don't have to fix this marriage at all because you're only looking for reasons why not. Then at least be honest and really tell me why not. Did you promise anyone anything? Then my fellow Member on the right of Parliament will not be able to clear any commission. Are you even listening? If we're running four times, I apologize for getting emotional and upset. But you had the opportunity to bring the law yourself; you even promised it, but again, words, words, words; blah, blah, blah. You have done everything in your own way and beyond what 41 Members wanted in this National Assembly. We are not talking about some marginal smaller – 41! I don't know what you really want from us. I know what I want from you. And once, whether you tell the truth, why you're so daft and scrupulously rounding up British companies – I don't even use the name because I don't make any sense whether it's one name or another, it doesn't matter, it's a concept. Why are you so frantic that this concession is to be maintained? You can't convince me it's any other value than value! Value. I don't know, I couldn't show my face in Prekmurje if I were to defend one such harmful technology, and God forbid anything really happens. I'd rather go down to the ground, never go anywhere again. Because something is ideology. There's no ideology here! The whole world's talking, fracking is dangerous, and then it's looking for blah, blah, blah reasons: some are aggressive or I don't know what kind of cracking, but some are a little less. It's a little better fracking, a little worse fracking. We're not talking about prosciutto. They say there's no bad prosciutto, he's just good and a little less good. Secretary, I know you've been very embarrassed today, and you've been very embarrassed three times. But every time we bring this marriage back to Parliament, you'll be more embarrassed. Because we don't get any answers. The easiest thing to say is: system law; it's a flawed law. It is in the first reading, we have a general debate today. Give me yours, I'm sure the proposer will withdraw it immediately if you bring yours. If it's just a matter of political prestige. Here, for the magnetogram, the proposer, I think we'll all get in line right away, withdraw our bill if you bring yours. But it's only when you put it on the table, not that you'll take us thirsty again across the water. Because I think, every time we repeat this story again, we have a better chance of actually succeeding. And one day you'll have to admit your defeat and say, yes, fracking is harmful. Even if it is not harmful, it is potentially harmful, the precautionary principle is already very important here. But no, we see. I don't know, I'm the kind of environmental minister we have right now! [[…]] And he also says, my job is not to worry about the environment, my job is to take care of balanced environmental interventions. Come on, please! The Environment Minister is the one who needs to take care of the environment in the first phase, not how well it will interfere with the environment. Because we see how well it interferes with the environment with us. In fact, I look forward to tomorrow's vote. Because it's not really an ideological question, even though we've heard a lot of things in our opinions. But it's a long, long time till tomorrow. It's been a few hours till tomorrow. I think we're on our way this time to make the marriage at least through the first reading. This could also be encouraged by the government, if it has pure plans. I'd like to walk across the street, and I'd like to show you some of my constructive posture. Not in three, four words, that there is no marriage — what I have written before — is lacking. Yes, it's not suitable, it's flawed, it's written only for the sake of one entity. Do you have any idea how many laws we passed in the National Assembly for a single entity? And we're talking about universities, not universities, higher education institutions, we're talking about a lot of things. Well, I'd rather not. But the easiest thing is, I don't know, not to look in the mirror. I don't know where you're looking. Certainly not in the mirror. Because the same reasons and arguments you give us as the proponents that we really have pure purposes, we do not have as much legal mechanism as you do. What you're telling us is that you're actually doing it yourself, but it's one way or another the syndrome of this policy that I'm not going to point too much at, because it's not good and it's not fair either. We can't say that all things are just bad, but unfortunately it's been so bad in the last year and a half that they're gonna fucking take away all those good things. But at least let's be honest with us and tell us what this is really about. Is the country so afraid that it will have to pay compensation to this company? Because if that's the only reason, we're going to do it if we've been raising funds for the STA and we're going to be for the Petišovci – right? I'm sure people would rather pay compensation to this company than for a lot of other things. Okay, one company can shut down, but once a big environmental damage is done, there's no turning back. There's no chance of a retrial. So I'm sure tomorrow we'll get enough votes to make the marriage go through the first reading. But if not, I assure you, there will soon be a new proposal on the table. We're not gonna give up. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Yes, I don't know, distinguished representatives of the ministry, because I don't know, you probably remember that this law has actually been passed, but you were lucky that there was a hospital absence on the part of the opposition. This should already be a clear and sufficient sign for you and an indication of the mood for this issue in Slovenia, not only in Parliament, but mainly in the municipality of Lendava, have informed you what they think about it. These are people, I think the mayor is even from SDS. I think so! Please don't even listen to your people on the customer line, let alone look at the safety of people, their health and, of course, at the fact that we don't degrade the beautiful environment that is there along the Muri River. You are interested in the security and legal protection of the concessionaire. That's exactly what you're interested in. Do you know what you're saying? You actually underestimate, as in the case of the Water Act, you have underestimated citizens and citizens and you have received your lesson in the referendum, and you have learned nothing. You don't really care about the welfare of the environment, you don't care about the health of people, you're interested in the welfare of some multinational Ascent Resources. Which, say, fracking in the UK can't do at all because it's forbidden there. I'd do it in Petišovci. And then you're pleading that the concession was given a further year under Drnovsk. Yeah, it's been given, so what do we do now? Is it not a policy duty to respond to challenges here and now? Today it is written in 2021, while bad things have proved to be happening, devastating things about fracking all over the world, not just in the case of screechers, but also sandstones, although you also excuse yourself for good and bad cracking; and while reality has changed. We have cases from other countries, clearly provenable, we have practices from other countries that prohibit fracking for each other – we would not. We wouldn't have banned him. Then you plead that the end of this concession will be in 2022 and that they must also gain environmental consent and impact assessment. Yeah, and until then, should we blink so they can get it right before they get it or what? And not protect the Petisovites, not the people there, not the environmental nature pearl on the Mura River? No, it doesn't matter to you, and even though you know it, you know it as well as I do that there's really no safe cracking, no matter what the slates or the sandstones. [[…]] No one, but no one can guarantee that in such depths – and we are talking about really great depths, say 3,000 500 meters in particular in Petišovci – there is no guarantee that anything can be broken. And once it's there, you won't be able to fix it. Then these toxic, toxic substances will slip away and pollute the groundwater and endanger human health, then move people out of there, evacuate, empty the entire area. I think so! Do you think this is something we've been called here for? Do you think we're here to protect any multinational business, no matter what? And a multinational who even threatened the former minister. Even that's what they've been able to afford. And that's borderline, sorry, it's literally a national issue! That you don't even understand that they've put pressure on politics. To the Minister. With the dirtiest possible criminal pressure, no. And you dare defend this at all. What were your responses? You didn't say anything at first. At first reading we experienced a single silence and then pressure on the button that was, of course, for the Ascent Resources Corporation and against the people. That's what you did. Now you are using the literally copy-past argument of this multinational who is trumpeting one and the same deceiving, that is, her laitmotiv or her mantra is that we have to distinguish between the implementation of the fracking on sandstones and slates. Blah blah blah blah blah blah [[...]] It's true, there's been a lot of fracking-related accidents on shale in the United States. There have been environmental disasters, in the United States, mainly related to hydrocarbon deposits, shales, but also on sandstones accidents. The groningen we have already mentioned to you today, the gas field in the Netherlands, is such a case. There was a series of earthquakes. It destroyed everything because of earthquakes, destroyed residential buildings far around the population that lives there. On this basis, the Dutch government banned or demanded that it be abandoned within four years. 2018 requested this. Next year there'll be no more fracking, he'll be gone. And she's banned it, so watch out for more than 200 gas-producing companies, and you're here because of one multinational shaking. But they cut 200 companies off, and next year there'll be no more cracking. And 200 companies can close their tent there. Do you understand? 200. Small and large enterprises, probably. Therefore, while all the problems caused by the fact that the sandstone was fracking in the Netherlands, the sandstone, as in Petišovci, would still be allowed, you would leave open the possibility of cracking in Petišovci. It's like we're living, I don't know, somewhere outside what we have in this Slovenia? [[...]] Everyone says that if we have anything, we have a really wonderful nature. And you're messing with the Mura biosphere area that Unesco recognized as a unique on a global scale. You'd risk it all, destroy it. Why? I really want to know why. Even if we have to, even if this multinational threatens to sue us. Let him sue us. Then what? One life human, human health, our nature; that's what's important, not there's one multinational who's raping something. And once again, fracking takes place at great depths, and when an accident occurs at such depth, an event that no one wants and yet can happen, it's something that you won't be able to fix anymore. You can't. So, look, I'm gonna stop at this place right now. Mainly, give, take responsibility, be aware of what people who live there expect. What the mood is, in fact, in the National Assembly, where you got away with it just because there were a few sick leaves. Please, come on! And you keep kicking your head through the wall and deceiving us with a dictatorship and with some opinion that's a copy of what this multinational put on your desk. With these most truly repulsive excuses, there is some dangerous and non-hazardous cracking. That's not true! Fracking is dangerous, anyone, and with every single fracking, there can be fatal consequences. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare for Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you, Chairman. The fact that we have tabled this bill for the fourth time is a clear sign that we will not give up and we will not give up because of people and their health, which is first and foremost important. Despite the fact that representatives of the Government, or secretary, are literally working a madman from Members who fight for human health, that is how this whole government of fools from us is done. Yes, you laughed earlier when Comrade Pavšič spoke his mind and even said if that was the position. We have now come even so far as the secretaries of the ministries here are discrediting the elected Members. We've really come a long way. How do I feel? All of us citizens have become hostages of this government, hostages. The third government of Janez Janša will leave us a completely indebted country and then they will say, yes, we have given you, but now it is a crisis. Yes, but it's caused by this other government. You're leaving the burned ground in all areas. A ruined environment and a bunch of lawsuits for disrespect for laws, judgments of courts, constitutions and so on. And then, I don't know, the representative of New Slovenia says, in his position, yes, and I think that this issue should be solved by an expert rather than a politician and then presents us with his expert opinion, which is the copy-paste of your opinion or the opinion of this same corporation. It's a disaster. Then we have one member from New Slovenia, Mr Horvat, who lives there and speaks, yes, of course, because we can't, human health is important and the environment and so on, but then we get to but: p{éôôôôôôôôôé is a corporation. [[…]] Sure. And it really hurts me to hear from the SDS Member's mouth what the purpose of this law is, if possible, commissions. You know, mirroring is what they do all the time: talk about your mistakes and point your finger. Because we know exactly what this Minister of the Environment is doing. And tax evasion, and to get to Petrol's shares, because the energy people are now being so irritated, and, before that, the colleagues mentioned lex specialis for Magna, although in the previous term, Poček. I will add the biogas plant in Montenegro in Petrol's ownership, owned by Minister of the Environment, Visiak – one who should care for human health. This biogas, just like this fracking in Petišovci, is an environmental wound that affects both groundwater and human fish, endemics and, above all, human health. So, if everyone could be banned from fracking, from the UK, which would now be so feudally imperialistic here, as well as France, Ireland, Germany, Bulgaria previously mentioned the Netherlands, which has banned 200 companies and is not afraid of lawsuits. Why isn't he afraid of lawsuits? Simply because, you know, times have changed. But times have changed because the Paris climate agreement obliges us to settle this and not to pollute the environment anymore. I don't know if he has life, they've talked before, but the constitution, and the rights, investors, what about the right of our people to live in a healthy environment? [[…]] Clearly, this does not matter to this government — or how? See, the horror is that today we have to explain for the fourth time that it is a methane leak that is worse than burning coal, that it is a possibility of earthquakes, that it is a matter of adding to global warming, that it is a matter of destroying the ecosystem, erosion, degradation of the environment, contaminated drinking water and groundwater, waste mud, all at the expense of profit and this foreign corporation will get 90 percent of all profits. Well, who do you work for, anyway? Really, that's what I'm interested in. Who did you swear to? You swore to work for the good of the people. Today, we see that people are your absolute last concern in this world. And you know, you say they're gonna sue us. Yeah, well, what if they're gonna sue us? I think so. Or will we now be so afraid — or what? In fact, if, as he says, we've collected for the STA, but we can do that. Of course, we could only be sued on the basis of an international treaty which has already become obsolete and will be renewed. But to recast this charter in a way that the international corporation will no longer be able to sue countries that do not have access to the exploitation of their hydrocarbons, a very strong movement has already started in Europe. If you have not already heard, Europe is now bound by the Paris Climate Agreement. And the earth is not straight, you know, and the environment is not given to us like this, for destruction. European Members and Members of too many Member States, including Slovenia, have already called for such amendments to the European Commission. And we also admit, we signed up in Levica under this invitation. The government has not done so; the government is interested in profits, capital, profits and care for people and their health. Slovenia may withdraw from this Treaty and not be the first. Many countries, even Russia, have already done this. Even if we are being sued, I will say again, we are bound by the Paris Agreement, and in the course of climate change, this corporation would most likely lose its claim. In this way, you will probably be sued by citizens and citizens because you are neglecting their basic constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter, prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to be not so political at first, but I speak more like a citizen of Slovenia. See, the current crisis, the health crisis, which is the result of the economic crisis and the social crisis, shows us the teeth in the sense of one such general, what we can see, what we can expect from the next truly devastating and global crisis. And this is the crisis that is actually already going on – the climate crisis. And the main culprit for the climate crisis coming and getting rich in all its size is fossil fuel production and fossil fuel consumption. And cracking is a method of getting fossil fuels. So, it's environmental, it's economic and it's civilisational ten steps back in the opposite direction from the direction in which all the advanced society is moving. So, we're going back. Fossil fuel problem, fossil fuel extraction, okay. On one side we know the story, before Greto Tomberg someone mentioned, and all the climate movements available remind us of how climate change is devastating, globally viewed. But let's think about how the extraction of fossil fuels that destroys locally in Petišovci, Prekmurje and in essence Slovenia is complete because we are a region. In the light of a little larger countries, perhaps. Let me explain, because I see that I am the only one in this hall who comes from Zasavje. My God, from Zasavje, a region that has simply lived 200, 300 years on fossil fuels. What of this region today? One big limbo of inadequacy, what should we do? Square miles and miles of degraded surfaces that have no value but to wait. To wait for the seventh time to close the Trbovlje - Hrastnik Mine, to throw another round there now eight million, to have miles of abandoned degraded areas on which children’s playgrounds could stand where sports facilities, residential facilities and so on could stand. He can't! Because these are degraded areas where there is nothing we can do; we cannot develop tourism, we cannot develop infrastructure, we cannot build the road. Nothing. Not to mention, as a result, the social devastation that has affected the region. I am not a slager, a very flat-rate analysis I can offer you an observer for the production of fossil fuels and anyone who comes from Trbovlje, from Hrastnik, from Zagorje can tell you that. Desolation. Environmental, economic, social. This is the production of fossil fuels and its direct effect. Now, if we want to do another story of the devastation of one region and then decades of searching for what we want from this space and with the 10,000 people who live there, then let's go fracking in Petisovci. Then let us repeat the story in Prekmurje. But if we have little sense, if we have one centimeter of reason in our brain, let's not repeat this story. Let's say, okay, Zasavje has this problem, let's give the country, the resources and the knowledge and everything we have to rehabilitate one region, not create another with some method that the whole world is laughing at or crying over, and that's fracking. It is forbidden everywhere, in England, which wants to invest in Slovenia, banned – in their own backyard – but will, of course, throw up a Slovenia, which does not have this problem of having a pig at its own doorstep. Thus, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is no reason and no reason for us to let cracking, but not only do we allow it to essentially encourage it to invite foreign investors to our doorstep, except, of course, here is a very logical, private interest. Thus, there are no arguments against our law, which therefore prohibits this harmful way of producing fossil fuels that are fracking. It is only the interests or interests of the dirty British capital on the one hand or we decide on the other hand for the interest of the people, and this will be the vote on this law, now the fourth, at the meeting of the National Assembly has shown: whether the interest of capital or the interest of people. Just that, or the interest of domestic people or the interest of foreign capital. At the end of my debate, I will simply call on Members and Members to stand on the right side, not to lose the compass in such trotlziher dilemmas, and also to put themselves on the right side of civilization; advanced, those who care what happens to our environment and living space, not only our generation, but all of them, or simply, as foreign British capital, vomit up everything we build on the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u189	To enlighten you on what people who live there love, I will read you an interview with one of the activists from the initiative Stop cracking in Slovenia, but this person is a native who lives there and has become an activist. He didn't just become an activist because he might seem a little nice. In short, what's he saying? »In the summer of 2011, 200 meters from some houses in Petišovci began drilling. Residents – many of them today are part of the Stop Fracking Initiative in Slovenia, says many locals have taken part in this initiative – has aroused noise. They didn't know what was going on. The launch of the initiative has begun to inquire. She contacted local authorities, municipalities and inspections. She wanted to know why drilling, why residents can't sleep at night. It turns out that in some of the previously existing wells in the Petišov fields, they experimented with fracking. We therefore discussed the situation here in the Journal of Science Criticism with the activity which therefore joined this initiative when it learned that the deadline for public hearings regarding the acquisition of documentation for natural gas pumping in Prekmurje was over." At first, he was surprised that the municipality as a party to the procedure had not acted, since it was the municipal services that had been publicly exposed, especially in 2012, and that, together with some Members, they had been asking the same questions as the activists of the initiative today. It is said that questions were asked here in 2012; even in the National Assembly as we can see. Then he asks. The answer to the question of what is the state's attitude towards the environment here. This man, a native, says: “In view of the actions of Ars and other institutions, we could conclude that we are less valuable. In Ljubljana, noise prevented the construction or renovation of Plečnik Stadium, because of the birds from allowing the construction of some windmills, restricting loud works in multi-housing buildings and allowing the poisoning of the petišov region or the wider Prekmur region. Is this some kind of relationship? We need to know that it's not just about the noise, it's about the drilling that brings in the heat methane. Huge amounts of water are consumed, and the likelihood of groundwater and other water poisoning is enormous, as is the likelihood of earthquakes. So it's about the procedures where they put their lives at risk. The question is also where the poisons used will go. Some cases from abroad indicate an increased rate of disease and mortality in those living near landfills and have been shown to be the cause of these wastes. We also need to know that most of the analyses are being carried out according to the contracting authority's size. Why else would anyone want to have them? We must not forget that there are also mafia interests here many times back there, as evidenced by the already revealed links and practices of oil and companies, regardless of what the analysis shows, images of the desolated landscapes are telling the truth. The daughter who visited Mongolia told me about the destruction of entire provinces because of the fracking. The companies did not have to pay any taxes, and after three years of concession, they recovered. They didn't even put the machines behind them, but they also left the destroyed landscape with the property. If a state institution such as Arso issues a fracturing permit, then we cannot expect a company that has its own interests not to carry it out. ” [[…]] Is this the confession of the man who lives there, or do you hear it? Are you aware that recently there were earthquakes nearby in Croatia? There's a field where Croats do something like that. But maybe these earthquakes are connected to it. Have you thought about that? In short, I really don't know how many of the evidence coming from the world would still need you to simply understand that your mission in the ministry, in the government, or the task of Members and Members is not blind to the interests of some corporation that is interested in the insane profit. We heard 90 percent of the profits will be collected by Ascent Resources if it comes to that. What will Slovenia get out of this? I ask again: what will Slovenia have to do with this, except for the enormous risk of environmental degradation and human health? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much. You've crossed it off before. Mr. Brickler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u191	President, thank you for your word. That's all I want to say because my colleague Natasha just said. Petrinja, these are fields where coal was mined, and these are gas fields in Croatia. When the earthquake occurred, parts of the city moved horizontally in very large widths. There have been severe devastation and casualties in this area. Today we are practically finding that the government currently in power, the government of Janez Janša, opposes the ban on fracking in Petišovci in Prekmurje, Slovenia. It opposes the fact that it opposes the law, which has been proposed by a very large number of Members and Members in the National Assembly. We're wondering why. What's the reason here? As you can see here the government's arrest, each minister in particular, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Visiak, when he said: "I will work in accordance with the Constitution and in favour of the welfare of citizens and citizens of Slovenia." Except for the Petišovci. Except for the white landscape when it comes to biogas. Except for Anhovo, where children have nothing to drink and through the air they get cancerous contents. This country is not responding. I'm not going to help the Celine, where people breathe, the water is polluted, the air, the earth with heavy metals. Now in ten kindergartens, the earth is being replaced so that children will not eat heavy metals. But the other parts of this town are contaminated. The constitutional right to water shall not be exercised in that country in order to balance environmental and spatial policy. Communal mud is being deposited. The last time we looked at the Chief Inspector at the Target, he stood and watched as the communal mud was deposited in the Drava field and the downstream was running, contaminating agricultural areas – in addition to the Petišovci, which the fracking would destroy. Agricultural areas in the Ptujsko Field. Hello, people, we have food and drink from there! The Ministry of Environment and Space, this is balancing through the policy that you are implementing. TES wanted to burn heavy waste under this minister. Thank God people said no, now that's enough! This is about people's lives. We can't say now, but if we're going to ban the cracking in Prekmurje, this country will have to pay big damages to Ascent Resources, this English multinational. Yeah, what about the cost of life and health? And the devastation of an important part of Slovenia? Well, perhaps they will tell us in Glasgow in November, in their message, that such methods of hydrocarbon production are also practically prohibited and unacceptable for future environmental policy in this world. Look, and just to speculate that it is likely to be a comprehensive environmental impact assessment that fracking would cause, and then it will affect that this way of gas production in Slovenia will not be implemented. It's not like that. It is the responsibility of this government, the Ministry of Environment and Space, Andrei Visiak, to find that this method of gas production in Slovenia is unacceptable. Like this method of gas generation, based on clear evidence of harmful, destructive to the environment, nature and man, it is also unacceptable in other parts of the world. At what price does the government of Janez Janša allow this and does not say no to the benefit of the oath she gave to its citizens and citizens in the National Assembly? I think that everyone, a Member of Parliament or a Member of the National Assembly, who has a number of sense and conscience to decide on tomorrow, will know the destruction of Prekmur, and thus the important part of Slovenia will say: no. And to vote in favour of amendments and additions to the proposed Mining Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I apologize to you, Mr. Ambassador. I really understood before that you're giving up the debate. We are now going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposalr will be given the floor. The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. As has been pointed out several times before, for the fourth time we have presented our opinion, the law is virtually more or less the same, which surprises me a little in the light of all the findings found and in the light of all the opinions that it has been. I believe that this was also the basis for this time’s law to be prepared in a different form. I will not go down so much on the content, because it has already been highlighted several times, but I cannot go beyond some of the emphasis that has been given by individuals. Mr. Jew has repeatedly made a number of promises to plead against the system law. That's not true! In this mandate, we have solved a number of problems already with the system law, and we will still have many problems, and we have already prepared and put it under consideration. So the government procedure follows and then comes to the National Assembly. Mr Pavšč presented a little bit of energy, which is very fine, I understand, the topic is actually difficult and requires full attention, but it is surprising when in one sentence someone stresses the provision of drinking water with a constitution and at the same time the ban on any cracking, which represents, that is, hydraulic fracturing, including the production of wells. So you're banning the production of wells, but you're boasting about drinking water at the same time. It's kind of not working out for me, so maybe I've cut my eyes a little bit. That the law, which has also been highlighted and which I am very concerned about, is that the law is intended for one case. I am really worried about the continuation of the individual procedure, because I believe that those who do not like this decision when they have been voted, I believe that they will look at the magnetogram and, by the proposaler, the clearly expressed view that the law is directed at one instance. You probably know what that means. Not a very good starting point when it comes to justice. In short, it's a bit of an unwise move, but I hope it has no consequences. Mrs Tomić has also found that I have asked Mr Pavšić or anyone if this is the position. This came from the parliamentary benches, not from my side, but not from my side, but from becoming a person, I say that my colleagues addressed me personally, so I address myself. In short, it wasn't said on my part. Let me sum up just a little bit more about the proposed law itself and the many arguments that have been presented. Therefore, we do not support the adoption of such a law and this is also the opinion of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u195	Before I conclude, I would like to ask the distinguished Secretary of State whether I have noticed. What were you trying to say? And you threatened me? Threatened, if I know what that means, it's one case? Yeah, what? This is the territory of Slovenia. Now, if this area happens to be in Petišovci, it's in Petišovci. This is the whole territory of Slovenia. I don't understand what you're saying. But you're trying to tell me between the lines that what were you trying to say? [[…]] Really, please tell me this so I can understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. At the same time, Mr. Brickler wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I also understand this question of colleague Natasha. That's what I'm trying to say. Mr Secretary of State, you correctly note that we have already brought this law to the National Assembly four times, and you say it is bad. This government, as formerly said, has legal machinery, has experts in this field, has a ministry. Why, as long as it agrees with us that it is actually a destructive process when the consequences of fracking occur, this law simply does not correct, will bring about a supplement to the corrections so that it will legally meet those criteria which you are laying down that the law adopted in the National Assembly must bear. And it's not just about legal criteria, it's about the content of what's behind this law. To the extent that the Government wants to lead matters in favour of which it is also up to the government to help correct this law, to meet its legal criteria, and to ensure that the vote tomorrow is united, Members and Members of the opposition and the coalition, we put in place this law in order to improve it in further processing procedures. This is correct, it is a constructive attitude of the government to individual things, not to collapse in this area as well as on everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukič and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first of all the representative of the Government and thus the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The first one has the word "representative of the government." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. I thought I was understanding enough, but it's okay. I'll do it again. Mr Pavšič, I think that the one who made the observation that the law was prepared for a specific case or was referring to a specific case. One and only. That was said. And we're not talking about personal, I don't know how you could take this, I'm talking about legal consequences. Such statements only make them worse. That was my comment, and I wouldn't discuss anything else here, because I wasn't invited to do that either. As far as the law is concerned. It is true that it is our job to approach it comprehensively and professionally, and that is what we have done. And just as you have rightly found that this is our primary task, it is true, and also by involving the public and the whole procedure. So not with one article that you bring in, but with the whole procedure of preparing and adopting the law. This is how the law is addressed, not just addressing hydraulic fracturing, but also the many other challenges we have in mining, and the law is ready. So I hope you get him to the National Assembly as soon as possible. It is true, however, that when we talk about a dilemma when we talk about drinking water, but at the same time we ban the production of wells, we can be aware that this kind of interference, when we do just one article and we prohibit everything on average – although it may be desirable to prevent a cracking that is so real that it has a negative connotation – in certain cases there is a hydraulic fracturing in other industries, so not for those we talk about and we think of as cracking, but it is in easier forms; that is, wells, geomechanical wells, in the area of construction, research wells, therefore, in these cases it is probably reasonable that such forms are possible. So the law addresses the matter more broadly, defines it well, and I believe that you will have the opportunity to re-examine it after a long period of time and to make your comments and suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u201	Look, I don't know, it's obviously a dialogue of the deaf. Now that you've pulled the wells out, I don't know what else you're gonna make up when we know exactly what we're talking about. We're talking about the extraction of natural gas from large depths by fracking. That's what we're talking about, not drilling wells, where we're looking for water, but where we're looking for natural gas. That in 2021, when we have until 2030 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55 percent I mean, you obviously don't care! [[...]] You would now even be opening up the possibility of getting an energist who will actually go into history soon, because it will not be used because it is a fossil energy. Also, that's all that should be the reason. But when we see the devastating effects of hydraulic rock breaking at these depths for the purpose of producing natural gas – not drilling wells where you are, really absurd, where you have sailed – when we see all of this in the world, it's obviously not enough for you. I don't know. Then I heard this, an abject or absurd position of the NSI Group, which says that it should be done by experts and not by politics. For God's sake, politics makes laws! And if we see examples all over the world of what's going on; yes, it's a policy that has a responsibility and a duty to protect both its people and nature, not the interests of some foreign corporation that will put most of the profits in its pocket! I really don't understand what else you're going to make up, except that you've literally copied what this corporation claims to be, and it insists all the time on the same, and this is the eternal excuse that justifies everything on the basis of the distinction between the implementation of the cracking on sandstones and slates. Pika. By the fact that the sandstones are also in Groningen, where 200 companies are producing natural gas and these 200 companies will close their doors nicely the second year, because the Dutch government is wise enough and determined enough to protect its people and its environment. For a change from you who can't hear anything. Why can't you hear? We will not be led into speculation, why you do not hear, but I am really surprised that you do not hear; because the local population calls you to it, the municipality of Lendava calls you, all of you ask, let us ban fracking now and this bill speaks exactly about this, about the complete ban of cracking now. But you don't hear, do you? You actually only hear the Ascent Resources Corporation and I don't know if you're afraid of its threats or anything because they've already threatened. Prove it! The former Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia dared to threaten this rejection corporation! And these, I'm sorry, criminals are on hand. I mean, you can't believe that. At the expense of your own people and your own environment! Britain accepts it, a moratorium on fracking; Britain, where this Ascent Resources comes from. Let them go there to do the fracking, if you may, Your Honor. Why don't they do it there? Why do they have to have him here? In short, the only duty you have, respected, as we Members do, is to protect the people in Petisovci. Especially those who live in the immediate vicinity of these wells. To protect nature to protect the Mura biosphere. This is your only duty, sorry, and nothing else. Everything else is very strange and, look, the rest will be recorded in history. We will not give up, we will persist, and even if we invest five times, we will not give up! And you know very well that we will not give up. I'm afraid I hope you don't have a majority for this thing anyway. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 26 October 2021, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. But I do have another announcement. I inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, convened today 15 minutes after the adjournment of the meeting of the National Assembly, has been postponed. You will be informed of the new meeting date later. Thank you so much and good night!
