ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Igor Zorčič, Alenka Bratušek, Željko Cigler, Tadeja Šuštar Zalar until 13 p.m., Aleksander Reberšek, Iva Dimic from 11 a.m. to 13 p.m., Bojana Muršič, Nik Prebil, Jožef Horvat, Just Bevk from 12 a.m., Soniboj Knezak and Aljaž Kovačič. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and on this proposal, 43 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Janjo Slug, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance of Mags to further explain the proposal. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The main objective of this law, the right of the law on gambling, is to harmonise the legal framework for gambling with European Union law, while also building on the legal framework to ensure that these games will be adapted in an orderly environment, especially consumer protection, prevention of money laundering and the fight against fraud. The proposal for a law was given the European Commission's agreement on whether or not to comply with the European acquis. Let me tell you briefly the main features. The legal framework will allow for a more transparent way of awarding concessions for the permanent organisation of classical and special gambling, an institution of public tender is established, the Government will implement it at least three times a year. This means, of course, that concessions will be awarded on the basis of criteria, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law, which take into account the market situation and also, in fact, how many concessions or how many casinos or salons are in a given area. At the same time, the so-called duopoly system is being launched, where two organizers are now organizing permanent classical gambling. The law provides for the possibility of granting licences or concessions, the conditions for obtaining a concession for a maximum of five operators, meaning, in other words, that competition is increasing, of course, also diversity and, at the same time, may affect the volume of traffic. At the same time, it simplifies gambling administratively, mainly because it eliminates licenses to work in gambling adaptation activities. It also reduces ownership of equity companies to 25% plus one share, or, if we are talking about limited liability companies 51% in a business share, of course, I am talking about ownership of the country. This opens up the possibility of greater strategic acquisitions of strategic partners that will have a structured business vision, as well as greater competitiveness. In view of the fact that the law has so far not regulated the level of concession fee or did not prescribe the minimum rates of concessional duty, a minimum rate of concession shall be set for the permanent adjustment of gambling and the adaptation of other types of special gambling in casinos of 5 % of the base and for the adaptation of specific gambling in casinos of 20% of the base. Here I would also like to point out, in the light of public debates, that a minimum rate is being set. It has not been established so far, but a minimum rate is now being set, which does not automatically mean this rate, but it is only a minimum, and it can also be this rate. In other words, this means that this does not result in lower incomes for societies, humanitarian societies, disabled societies, sports associations, all those who actually participate in gambling revenues. At the same time, the minimum amount of basic capital to be provided by operators of special gambling is increasing and the minimum number of slot machines to be installed in the gaming salon is also increasing. Infringements are newly identified. Here is an additional definition of the infringement identified by the decision. In particular, if these infringements have not been resolved, the concession may also be terminated or the concession abolished. We estimate that the proposed changes will encourage an increase in the offer in the area of gambling. This will have a positive impact both on the state budget and, as I have already mentioned, on the income or financing of sports, disability and humanitarian activities. At the same time, I would like to say that this law was under public scrutiny, we have received a number of comments, proposals, and we have taken them into account in part. Dear Members, I propose that you support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Before we proceed, let me just inform you that we have a bit of a problem with the conference-voting system, it is by counting the clock. So we'll take a short break now and continue the meeting at 10 and 20 minutes. Thanks for understanding. (The sitting was suspended at 10.08 p.m. and resumed at 10.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Hello again! We're moving on to the session. The views of the members of the groups are on the table. First of all, Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The gambling system is regulated by law in Slovenia. The aim is to take place in a regulated and controlled environment, preventing different social risks or abuses and protecting the interests of participants in such games. Gambling can only be organised on the basis of the permission or concession of the competent authority and the concession fee is a source of funding for socially beneficial disability, humanitarian and sports organisations. The law on gambling was passed in 1995, followed by several amendments. The establishment of a legal framework that will allow for a more transparent procedure for the award of concessions, both for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling and for the adaptation of specific gambling, is one of the main objectives of the proposed amendments and the completion of the applicable law. Concessions will be awarded on the basis of a call for tender and will be decided on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law. The classic gambling game will be able to hold a maximum of five organizers instead of the other two. A substantial change in the business environment is therefore proposed, which provokes the question of which monopoly has ever been prepared without resistance to give up its monopoly. The matter is even more specific, for example in the case of the Slovenian Lottery for State-owned Monopolist, which provides inquisitive, profitable and safe synergies for many internal and external participants. It's a little different with the Sports lottery, which is only state-owned. These companies are the only organisers of classical gambling in the country, and the total value of their concession fee is between 2015 and 2020, ranging from EUR 20 million and EUR 200 000 per year to EUR 25 million and EUR 200 000 per year. For comparison. The concession fee for special gambling in the same period ranges between EUR 38 and half million and EUR 41 million per year, except in 2020, when the consequences of the epidemic caused a marked decline of EUR 20 and a half million. Three different taxes are also paid from classic gambling: gambling tax, lucky tax, and winning tax on classic gambling. Their combined impact over the last six business years is between €21 and 26 million per year. Is that enough or can such income be increased? Monopolists, more specifically a duopolist, are categorically rejecting such things. They came up with a strategy to monopolize a monopoly, which is nothing more than to force a mental framework to preserve the existing situation, rather than a permanent debate on the individual qualities of such or different business model. There is no need to change anything, according to the Duopolitans, for three reasons, due to the lack of market size, due to already too much taxing and due to the over-average normalisation of the business area. In the proposed amendments and additions, the Slovenian rules on the organisation of gambling are aligned with the law of the European Union, which ensures the free provision of services in the internal market. The requirement that a company wishing to obtain a concession to arrange special gambling will be abolished is established in Slovenia. Currently, 45 gaming salons and 15 casinos are allowed in Slovenia and 22 gaming salons and 10 casinos are active. In direct connection with this harmonisation, the statutory restrictions on the form of an economic company shall be lifted and most restrictions on the ownership of concessionaires shall be lifted for concessionaires who arrange special gambling in casinos. This eliminates, inter alia, the requirement that the concessionaire be legally organised as a shareholder. It is newly stipulated that the direct or indirect share of the Republic of Slovenia in the concessionaire’s ownership structure must not be less than 25 % plus one share in the case of a share company and must not be less than 51 % in the business share of another form of the company. For betting as a specific type of gambling, specific conditions will be laid down for the acquisition of a concession, while also laying down more detailed conditions for the adjustment of bets. The period for which the concession is granted or extended shall also be set at least three years and not more than five years. The applicant shall also set the minimum level of concession fee for the permanent adjustment of classical gambling and the adaptation of other types of special gambling in casinos, and shall also increase the minimum amount of basic capital to be provided by operators of specific gambling. The limit factor of the minimum number of slot machines installed in the playroom increases from 50 to 100 machines. In addition, infringements which are the reason for the termination of the concession and after the decision of the supervisory authority have not been resolved within the prescribed time limit shall be identified. Ladies and gentlemen, the state-directed happiness has been the joy of the finance ministers since the Enlightenment times, regardless of their political inclination. What is the extent of the joy of the Slovenian finance minister or ministers, I said a little earlier. The problems with state-directed happiness are limited to ill-lit political decision-makers. A man who is not a machine, but an interpretative being, often acts according to psychology or psychopathology, but according to the probability of an account. Because man is an interpretative being, we in the Desus Group have decided whether the law is a suitable basis for further consideration or not to decide after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Janja Slug's word and will present the position of the delegation of the group of unrelated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Gambling is a game where participants have the same chance to win a certain amount and the result of the game depends on coincidence or some uncertain event. It is therefore the duty of the State to ensure, by its regulation, that the gambling system is regulated so that gambling takes place in an orderly and controlled environment to prevent money laundering, fraud and other crimes. In addition, it must also be directed to protect minors from the harmful effects of excessive gambling and to protect minors from the harmful effects of excessive playing, and to protect other players from gambling. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware that Slovenia needs certain new solutions in the field of gambling, including in order to comply with European Union law. In particular, it is necessary to remove the requirement for a registered office for companies wishing to obtain a concession to arrange gambling in Slovenia. This requirement is contrary to Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the end of 2010, Slovenia adopted a 10-year strategy for the development of gambling, the basic assumption of which was that special gambling could be part of a tourist offer, that it would therefore make sense to relax the conditions of ownership of the State and private legal persons, that in the field of special gambling we would have fewer concessions, which would be larger to share them in public tenders, so that taxation would be more flexible or adapted to gaming products and could also be listed. Since the adoption of the strategy, a serious attempt has been made to prepare a new legal basis only within the 2014-2008 mandate, and this has not yet been possible. The proposal we have on the table today also contains solutions that have experienced severe resistance and opposition from both organisers, both foundations and non-governmental or humanitarian and sports organisations funded by foundations, as well as from governments and competent ministries. This government and the Minister of Finance have gone one step further. In the field of classical gambling, they want to eliminate the existing monopoly or dual system for both lottery and sports betting. Today, classic gambling, lottery and sports betting can be permanently organised by a maximum of two organizers – Lottery of Slovenia and Sports lottery, and according to this novel will be organised by a maximum of five organizers. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we point out that the proposed regime is contrary to the 2010 gambling strategy. This on page 28 states: "In the future, there will also be two traditional gambling providers in Slovenia who will be publicly owned or owned by non-profit organisations. In this area we will have a public monopoly, which is also characteristic of most other countries." End of story. Virtually all Member States of the European Union grant the right to organise classical gambling exclusively to one organiser. The exceptions are Spain, where they have two lotteries, state and charitable, and Lithuania, where the two organisers own the Olympic Committee. In Slovenia, the Olympic Committees co-owner of the Sports Lottery, which organizes sports betting. In addition, the system of classical gambling, which allows monopoly or duopol, is also compatible with European Union law, except in the part relating to the seat of the organiser. There is no reason for change in the rest of our estimates. Liberalisation in itself does not solve the problem of illegal offer or of Slovenian players playing sports betting with other foreign players who do not have a concession in Slovenia to arrange gambling. It is often mentioned that Slovenians paid some 100 million euros for these illegal providers and that they could keep this money at home, which they do not. The latter would mean that these payments go beyond all payments to classic gambling. For example, in 2019, sports lottery reached around 112 million Euros of transport, the Lottery of Slovenia 105, a total of 217. In addition, we estimate that the effects of the proposed regulation would have a negative impact on the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations. When new concessionaires enter the sports betting market, there would probably be a reallocation of existing sports betting players to new bidders and the number of players together would not change significantly. While it cannot be denied that the impact of a more competitive offer on the casino area is not negligible and can improve quotas and increase profits and payments, which reduces the base for taxes and concession charges. In order to preserve the stability of the domestic market in this area and to ensure reliable resources that will enable the implementation of the envisaged FSO and FIHO programmes, it is necessary to limit the illegal offer, to inform the users of gambling that they will play with domestic organisers, thereby providing a greater share of the taxes to the state and local communities and of the fees allocated to the financing of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. According to our assessment of the reduction in traffic, in particular the lower volume of concession fees collected in relation to classical gambling and the impact of the introduction of a 10% tax on luck in September 2013. Since this amount is not included in the amount of the fee, at the same amount of money that the player spends on the purchase of the ticket, the fee shall be reduced by the amount of the tax and thus by the basis for the establishment of the winning fund. Therefore, the minimization of the impact on the winning fund itself has been carried out by the organisers of classical gambling by increasing the share of payments or by raising the minimum wager. As the revenue funds increased relatively, the basis for the concession fee, which represents the payments reduced by the profits paid, decreased further. Therefore, we propose to the Government and the Minister of Finance that they should consider abolishing the 10% happiness tax, which has a significant impact on the lower volume of the concession fees collected and which was assured at the time of its introduction in 2013 that it is a temporary intervention measure. According to our assessment, given the nature of the market, the actual monopoly or duopol Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery in the field of classical gambling as a well-established practice in European Union countries is legally, economically, most appropriate. The reasons for the current monopolistic or duopoly arrangement are in the size or size of the market and the appropriateness of the offer or products to minimise the risk. The market and purchasing power for gambling are limited in our country, but we also have stricter criteria for certification, standardisation and monitoring of game operators than abroad. As a key point, however, let us mention the tax and concessional model from which FIHO and FSO are financed. In the case of lottery games, the winnings fund or the money that players receive through the payout is fixed on the basis of sales. In the case of bets, the winning fund is not fixed, but depends on the number of correct bets. The fund is usually lower in lottery games and does not change, but in bets it is higher and changes according to the attractiveness of the event. This property of the betting fund is particularly pronounced on the multi-proceeding market, which significantly increases payments to players and significantly reduces the basis for calculating the concession fee and thus provides the State with the funds provided by gambling for a good purpose. While the funds in the lottery games are treated the other way around. The more the bidders, the more the payments are distributed among the organisers and the lower the funds. The lower funds, however, need to increase payment to players in order to preserve the players, thus reducing the base for benefits, as has already been said. With increased competition in classical games such as lottery and sports bets, quotas and winning funds will increase in the game for buyers, i.e. to pay the players. The increase in sales is also not ensured. This proves that when the volume of the sale of the lot did not increase regardless of the introduced additional games Vikinglotto and Eurojackpot, the players only redistributed by game. Slovenian players who are already illegally playing sports betting with providers abroad are doing so because they can offer them higher quotas due to lower taxes. The changes adopted by the Government were not at all the subject of substantive government coordination, coordination between coalition partners, nor were they put under public scrutiny in such a way that the Lottery of Slovenia and Sport Lottery and other stakeholders, such as the Foundation and, last but not least, the 500 humanitarian and sports organisations financed by the Foundations, as well as the municipalities, which are also entitled to the benefits paid, would have the opportunity to comment on the most controversial solutions I have mentioned. Most of the solutions in the draft law adopted by the Government have already been drawn up by the Minister of Finance Dr. Marble in 2016, at least as reflected in the original version of February this year. Later, the government or the Ministry of Finance changed the original version without any explanation. The initial bill's published proposal for the current regulation of the organisation of classical gambling has not changed. The explanation made it clear that the regulation of classical gambling does not change the Republic of Slovenia and that it retains the restriction of competition with a view to a more effective fight against crime and ensuring a high level of consumer protection. Later, a key change, namely the liberalisation of the traditional gambling market, was found in the text just before the laborers or before the adoption of the government. It was not formally proposed by any of those who made comments. Whether it was added only on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance or some individuals at the Ministry or external stakeholders and why it was just before the workers, no one has explained so far. Until the proposal was sent to the Government, it was not known, according to our information, either by the remaining ministries or by the coalition partners or by the key stakeholders mentioned. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance is required to explain who is the author of these changes and what are the reasons for them and why the law has changed in such a non-transparent manner, with the Minister violating the rules of procedure of the Government and the coalition protocol. Did lobbyists play a role in the preparation? Which one? These are our questions. Some of the solutions in the field of specific gambling are summarised in the proposal 2016, as I said, for example, the concessionaire's seat, the modification of the concession procedure for the implementation of specific gambling and flexibility in determining the amount of the specific levy for the adaptation of specific games. There's more to it than that. We have supported and supported these solutions. However, there is a need for further discussion on some of the remaining special gambling solutions, as we agree with the casino workers that tip is not the income of the concessionaire with whom he can freely dispose and that the state must not burden him or her with adding to the base for the concession fee. We estimate that the proposed changes in the field of classical gambling are so highly harmful and adopted in such a non-transparent way that they have poisoned the whole novel. Therefore, we cannot support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. However, we suggest that coalition partners, especially those who have already rejected similar solutions in the previous mandate, seriously consider what backgrounds and interests they advocate, since we are convinced that they have not even been made aware of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Nice greeting, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, all the rest of the company in the hall, say hello again! Before the outbreak, Fursa reported that casinos received more than €250 million from special gambling, half less last year. Despite the epidemic, we Slovenians apparently were still looking for happiness in classical gambling. From this title, the players received more than 61 million and 68 million euros a year earlier. At this point, I think we all agree that a country from gambling gets a busy stack of money. At present, we have had quite a few limitations in this area, especially who is the one who can arrange such games. The law we are considering removes these restrictions and adds quite a few other benefits, which will certainly ensure that at the end of the year we will talk about more profits and the resulting collection of money or taxes into the state budget. Gambling is the tourist industry where, unlike the slaves' exploitation of Slovenia by abroad for at least once, we can take a little advantage of the neighbouring country. I mean, of course, Italy and Austria next door. Neighbouring Italy has very strict legislation regarding gambling, so there has been a very strong gambling tourism in Primorska. The Italians come to spend money on us, thereby increasing our economy and filling the Slovenian state budget properly. Perhaps some who feel the pathologically happiest in the role of an exploited servant do not like it when we are doing good for foreigners, and their reverse role may be frightening. Playing is a sector where we should give even greater emphasis to attracting prestigious foreign guests, as this is also beneficial for our people for social reasons. Since gambling often wastes its savings, which can increase their social distress, it is certainly better that this does not happen to our people. We must only work for the welfare of the Slovenian people, because we are a state of Slovenians and not the whole world. In some casinos in the mountainous region, revenues from foreign nationals, especially Italians, account for more than 80% of total revenue. This also has a beneficial impact on other tourism industries such as catering and hotel services. We support the bill in the Slovenian National Party, but I would like Slovenia to focus even more on the advertising of gambling abroad in the future. We need to attract more rich foreigners who will have a beneficial impact on our economy because of their gambling. We must encourage more intensive advertising of this sector abroad, especially in neighbouring Italy, because we Slovenians can sometimes benefit more from it than foreigners. At the end of the day, I would like to think about the following. The law of the current authorising officer entry fee shall be divided into the account of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The Slovenian cultural and natural heritage is rich but financially malnourished, so it would make sense to divide the share of these funds into a Slovenian heritage fund, as has been done in the UK. In this way, many bell towers, many castles, museums could be repaired and could be listed. Today, however, in the Slovenian National Party, we have just taken the initiative to establish such a foundation and to ensure the preservation of Slovenian cultural and natural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There's a change in the law on gambling. The basic objective of the bill is to establish a legal framework that will allow transparent award of concessions for the adaptation of gambling on the basis of a call for proposals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will carry out a public tender for the award of concessions at least three times a year. On the occasion of each call for proposals, the Government will be able to assess the need for possible award of new concessions and, on the basis of the assessment of the situation in the field of gambling, to select the most suitable candidate to be awarded the concession. In the area of the design of classic gambling, the existing dual-polish system is eliminated when classical gambling has been able to permanently organize up to two operators, according to the bill, classical gambling will be able to permanently organise up to five organisers, for bets as a specific type of classical gambling, specific conditions for obtaining concessions are laid down and more detailed conditions are laid down for the adaptation of this type of classical gambling. By removing the requirement that a company wishing to obtain a concession for the organisation of specific gambling is established in the Republic of Slovenia, the legal arrangements for the organisation of gambling shall be aligned with the legal order of the European Union, taking into account the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this context, legal restrictions on the form of an economic company are also removed and most restrictions on the ownership of concessionaires are abolished for concessionaires who arrange special gambling in casinos. It is newly established that the direct or indirect share of the Republic of Slovenia owned by the concessionaire must not be less than 25 % plus one share in the case of a share company and must not be less than 51 % in the business share of another form of the company. In view of the fact that the law has so far not regulated the degree of concessional duty or did not prescribe the minimum rates of concessional duty, a minimum rate of concessional duty shall be set for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling and the adaptation of other types of special gambling in casinos of 5 % of the base and for the adaptation of specific gambling in casinos of 20% of the base. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we also supported the proposal for amendments to the Law on gambling in particular in the field of sports betting in 2018; we did not oppose it. Some clubs and some branches supported the changes in the regulation in the field of sports betting. We are convinced that the proposal to amend the Law on gambling follows the legal order of the European Union, which is at the moment in Slovenia under question. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that by amending this law we do not rule out a substantial amount of money or a substantial amount of tax coming into the state budget. The fact is that today the market works and that many Slovenian players serve foreign betting and thus Slovenia loses its tax. Given that this is the first reading of this law, we will unanimously support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, we will listen carefully to the proposals and comments made to this law in today's debate. In the case of meaningful comments, it is therefore appropriate to include all these additional proposals which follow improvements in this law in the legislative procedure below. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect more attention to be paid to responsible play. We all know that so-called non-lethal adoptions are taking place with these games and that special attention needs to be paid in the legislative process itself in particular to the protection of minors. Particular attention should also be paid to concession fees, so that the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations will remain in the so-called game. We are convinced that the Government has taken an additional step forward here, because in the law itself it has introduced a minimum amount of concession fees of 5%. It should be noted that this is not written in the existing law and that the Government, by decree, can in fact decide that this percentage is lower. Today, we know that concession fees take place for each individual game. It is the responsibility of the Government to achieve the amount of concession fees. At this point, the ratio is somewhat between 20% and 45% of concession fees, but it must be said that there is a gap in the existing law that does not provide a minimum basis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that by opening up the market in some way, revenue can be increased, especially by taxes and revenue. Finally, the income of individual humanitarian organisations, both FIHO and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and individual sector sports associations and individual clubs. I would point out once again that this is the first reading of this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will listen carefully to today's debate, all of these comments and we propose to support this law today and then, in cooperation with both the coalition and the opposition, we will receive a law that will in some way increase revenue in the Slovenian budget or protect it, that the Slovenian budget will not lose tax revenue, in order to protect all stakeholders on the market in one way or another while ensuring a better performance of all gambling.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jože Lenart, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam President. A respected minister with a team! Gambling is old as a human civilization and has always been considered a popular way of cheering, but because of their nature, they have been subject to state control and part of the regulatory system. Today, in Slovenia, they are regulated by the Law on gambling and other regulations. This provides that gambling is the exclusive right of the Republic of Slovenia. Gambling can only be organised on the basis of the authorisation or concession of the competent authority. The conduct of this activity without authorisation is a violation under Article 110 of the Law on Gambling, which may turn into a criminal offence, as provided for in Article 212 of the Penal Code, which adds the purpose of obtaining unlawful property benefits. We stress that the existing Gambling Act in Article 1 regulates the system of gambling in a way that takes place in an orderly and controlled environment, in order to prevent money laundering, fraud and other criminal acts or acts contrary to public order, in order to protect minors and other vulnerable persons from the harmful effects of excessive gambling and to protect players from gambling. Since we are part of the European Union, our rules must be in line with European Union legislation, which is not always easy. The European Union's framework for gambling was not regulated by European Union legislation, but by the case law of the European Court of Justice. From 1993 to 2021, we have more than 60 judgments from the European Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the EFTA States giving us comprehensive and comprehensive guidelines that Member States must respect when they want to organise their legislation on gambling. The case law clearly shows that the court supports a monopolistic approach to gambling, since it is easier to control it and can be redirected faster. Well, in this case, the monopoly is presented differently. Slovenia is reminded that the Makoline Convention on the Management of Sports Competitions has not yet been signed. This Convention, however, is crucial to the regulation of systems to prevent crime in the area of money laundering in this field. The European Union of Slovenia recognises satisfactory regulation based on the following objectives. First of all, consumer protection. Here is an important assessment of the consequences of addiction, all its negative effects on the individual and also society. Particular attention should be paid to online games where it is difficult for minors to prevent participation. Secondly, protection of public order requires a clear analysis of the impact of the existing system on the possibility of money laundering. Slovenia as a two-million-dollar nation, the country has two providers of classic gambling with concessions, namely the Lottery of Slovenia with many lottery and tombols and the Sports lottery of Slovenia, which arranges bets. Italy also has two suppliers with a population of 61 million, Finland with 5 million, Spain with 47 million, and Germany has only one bidder at national level with 83 million, of course in the area of classical gambling. Do we really want to create for Slovenia, for Slovenians and Slovenians the gambling conditions for their dependence on gambling, which lead to social problems and thus endanger human health? Thus, of course, it is not reasonable for Slovenia to amend the legislation and extend the number of tenderers to five. Such an extension would break down and lower the winnings. Humanitarian and sports organisations would receive less funding from concessions. As a result of the fall in taxes on profits, municipalities would receive fewer funds and the Republic of Slovenia would receive fewer dividends as a shareholder. What's the logic here? By amending the law, in particular in terms of market liberalisation, the Government should therefore demonstrate that the reason for the change of concern about reducing opportunities and addiction to gambling and protecting public order, but while encouraging consumers to participate in lottery, gambling, betting and potentially even online games, it is impossible for the state to gain financial benefits without the consequences that we have cited. The government in the bill does not offer any analysis as to why a change of law in this regard would be useful for society. We would very much like to see an analysis by the Government proving that more advertising concessionaires would encourage residents and residents to bet more on sports betting and lottery. How would this affect the social and health aspects of people? We miss that. Moreover, virtually all humanitarian, disability and sports organisations remind us of the danger and harmfulness of changing the law, as market liberalisation will reduce transparency and reduce income for disabled and sports organisations. Shareholders, notably FIHO and FSOs, estimate that by increasing the number of organisers able to stage classical gambling, there will be negative consequences and a questionable economic impact. The increased offer will have an impact on the raising of the revenue and betting funds, resulting in a negative impact on the base for paying taxes and concession fees. FIHO and individual organisations point to irregularities in the drafting process itself, as they were excluded from public debate as an interested public. In accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Non-Governmental Organizations, the Government should consult with the disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations and engage them actively in the process. But if we look in detail at how the bill has changed several times without the Government allowing the public to declare changes, then it can be clear to us that we have before us the result of a retrial of some that the area of gambling is liberalised and makes profit available only to some. It is unclear what the Ministry of Finance’s objective is with the proposal of the novel, whether it is following it at all, since there is no expert analysis in it. It kind of reminds you of the recklessness of your income novel and its approach to public finances, "let's accept it and then we will somehow." And this is not for voters, and that's why we're wondering what the interest is. On what basis does the applicant claim that the increase in the number of classical gambling players and wagers will increase the quality and provide more funding for sports, disability and humanitarian organisations? We miss the analysis of consumer growth, their structure and the impact on addiction, social insecurity and social consequences. FIHO points out, however, that any changes to the regulation so far would have a significant impact on their functioning and that there is a complete absence of empirical analyses on the consequences of legislative change and the impact on the situation of the most vulnerable groups. What is the existing offer of the Republic of Slovenia lagging behind and is not modern, as claimed by the proposer? It also raises the question of how the proposal for a law in the government was agreed by the Minister of Labour, Janez Cigler Kralj, who covers the disabled and Minister of Education, Simona Kustec, who covers the field of sport. A week ago, you adopted the Disability Action Programme at the government, and now you're taking the resources they need. In the proposed novel, we see a number of shortcomings, especially the negative impact on the social situation of the most vulnerable groups and, of course, the decline in resources in sport. Even more worrying is the untransparent way in which you brought the law in this form to the National Assembly. But of course we're used to that. Amendments and additions to the Law on gambling to Slovenian society and the Republic of Slovenia do not, of course, bring added value, on the contrary, have negative consequences. Therefore, the proposed novels of the Law on Gambling cannot be supported and we categorically reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Respected and respected! The Government of Janez Janša had previously coordinated the proposal with stakeholders and the public concerned and then submitted it to the National Assembly in a substantially modified form and with solutions which had not been consulted or analysed. The proposed law is thus a collection of all the bad ideas that have been brought to the surface in the field of gambling regulation over the last few years. They clearly and in writing expressed their opposition to the bill's proposal all relevant organisations in this area – gambling workers' organisations, sports, disability foundations, the union of municipalities, as well as the European lottery association and many others. All, without exception, point out that the proposal for a law is inconceivable, that its claims are not supported by data and analysis and that its application would lead to serious negative consequences. The rights of employees would be jeopardised; they would risk significantly lower funding for disabled organisations and sports. A competitive fight against an increased number of bidders would only lead to more aggressive advertising, more risky products, a reduction in the profits of businesses in the industry, with all the negative consequences arising from the steady spread of gambling, such as addiction, personal distress and various forms of crime, from domestic violence to money laundering. Some, including many supporters of this government, believe that policy should avoid so-called ideological themes. But, respected and respected, the only basis for this marriage is ideology. On the one hand, the ideology of the free market and uncontrolled competition mixed with the ideology of the arbitrary command of the rulings, who do not explain their decisions, do not justify, and do not deviate from them even when it is clear that they have made a mistake and have gone in the wrong direction. We would only like to highlight some of the harmful ideas contained in this bill. First of all, we undermine workers' rights. By abolishing licensing, they would abolish the obligation of professional competence in the field of gambling and allow them to be replaced with non-professional personnel. Secondly, it introduces severe competition on the basis of arbitral decisions. In the same large market, the number of tenderers is expected to increase by 2.5 times, which could be decided by the Minister of Finance on his own discretion. Thirdly, it threatens the financing of disabled and sports organisations. Several market providers will reduce the profits of operators and the basics from which sport and the functioning of disabled organisations are financed. Fourthly, the problem of ownership of gambling players is not solved. The proposed amendment is neither in line with modern European courts nor with reality, as there are already providers on the market who do not comply with the proposed framework. Five, he's putting extra pressure on the actors in the industry. It imposes new tax burdens on workers. And lastly, it brings more risky gambling products and more aggressive gambling. Providers will be forced into more aggressive tactics and more risky products in a fiercely competitive fight, resulting in both a reduction in reward funds and an increase in the negative effects of excessive gambling. Respected and respected, all of this is merely a brief and modest summary of the professional views of stakeholders and experts received by the National Assembly in connection with this bill and published publicly on its websites. Respected, when the legal proposal has received so many arguments before the first hearing, it is clear that horses should be stopped. This law is not and cannot become suitable for further consideration on the grounds that the Government has amended it further and intolerably after public consideration. Many times have been seen with this government. In doing so, it is clear that the Government has not carried out any analyses to support its claims under the legislative proposal. All its claims, from the belief that the tax revenues and financing of sport and disability organisations will increase, to the contentions that greater competition will improve the supply on the market, are merely flat-rate ideological claims which the profession has argued against. This debate can therefore be useful only in order for the Government to explain the interest of which it has drawn up this legislative proposal. Certainly not in the public interest. Such proposals cannot be the basis for further discussion. They can serve only as an illustration of bad intentions and as an opportunity to reject harmful ideas. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Hello! Thank you so much for saying that. The gambling law is aimed at high regulation of gambling activities, i.e. activities in which, in a very short period of time, over-average amounts of money are accumulated, while at the same time it can cause social damage, directly by addiction to gambling and indirectly destroyed families due to such addiction. We therefore have a particular type of economic activity to perform, and it can therefore only be carried out under the law through concession. Freedom of the economic initiative is so limited. In this activity, the country retains actual monopolies and strict control. And for a reason. Any change in the law should therefore be based on a serious analysis of the implementation of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not understood from the material of the current bill. The explanation is modest. There are only solutions in the material, not the basis on which such solutions are even proposed. There has to be a good reason for amending the legislation. But it doesn't look like it here. However, partial interests appear to satisfy the liberalisation of activities. You could even say that the amendment of the law is written for precisely defined stakeholders who would like to enter a well-regulated gambling market in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, a change in the legal ownership structure creates the basis for the privatisation of the largest provider of special gambling, this is the Novogori company Hit, d.d. There is now a majority-owned country and a large share of local communities. In view of the historical development of gambling, which has been enabled by the State with its ownership and by its regulation, ownership should, of course, remain in the hands of the State and the local communities. The most developed gaming activity in Goriška, as well as elsewhere in Slovenia, is the result of a national economic policy that began in the second half of the 1980s. Privatisation of the main player of the gaming activity would mean that, for relatively small money, private capital is offered not only to the company but to the entire social ecosystem created by the gaming activity, which includes the consumer pool mainly from nearby Italy, as well as Austria and other neighbouring countries. It should be stressed that a company such as Hit d.d. is export-oriented and generates 90% of income abroad or from foreign guests. In Slovenia such a company is only Hit, d. d. We are firmly opposed to the privatisation of casino companies in Levica. As mentioned, privatisation loses the community levers to influence decisions made by a company that mainly deals with gambling activities. Such an activity must be carried out, developed and limited exclusively under the strict supervision of local and state institutions, as it marks the image and social character of Nova Gorica and its surroundings. In addition to the increased employment of effects on the local economy and not least the increased personal and budgetary revenues of gambling, negative consequences, such as gambling addiction, prevail over the mono-cultural entertainment industry and so on. In any event, experience with the privatisation of state-owned enterprises and its direct impact on mass layoffs also suggests that the current ownership structure, i.e. mostly public, ensures greater job conservation and local suppliers. The proposal to amend the law extends the number of classical gambling providers from two to five. Now in Slovenia they are the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. In the European Union, it is not normal for so many classical gambling providers to have a monopoly on lottery activities, and therefore there is no need for Slovenia to focus on liberalisation in this area. While the proposal states that liberalisation will have a favourable economic impact, I quote: “In addition to direct tax effects, when new concessionaires enter the market, appropriate demand for new locations, i.e. premises, buildings and so on, is expected for the adjustment of gambling, labour and various services, which will also have tax additional multiplier effects on other public financial revenues, i.e. VAT, social contributions, health contributions, pension contributions.” End of quote. There are at least two objections here, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Levica. There is no way to say that new, additional concessionaires will have a positive tax effect. It's also important where they pay the profit tax. Multiplitative effects are, of course, possible, but only if the activity of gambling is expanding. But here we have to ask ourselves, do we really want to increase the offer of gambling? All countries restrict this activity and this is also the basic purpose of the law. The expansion of activities would also have many negative effects, i.e. social damage. Increasing the competitive offer of gambling means stronger marketing to win new players. Unfortunately, the risk of addiction to gambling in such a case is very high. The consequences may have a negative multiplier effect both on the individual and his family and on the costs of treatment, possible social transfers and so on. Addiction can lead to a stage of pathological gambling that has the following behavioral characteristics: the commission of property crimes, the creation of dizzying debts, the deterioration of interpersonal ties with family members and friends, even suicidal tendencies. Another very important point. The calculations of disabled organisations show that concession fees from classical gambling, such as lottery, will even be reduced. Disability organisations are, of course, a major stable source of funding from lottery activities and are, of course, directly affected by such a change in the law. Projections of the effects of the proposed law promise a 30% reduction in concessions for the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and, of course, the scope of financing specific social programmes. However, the bill does not contain any financial analysis indicating otherwise. The negative reactions of many disabled organisations to this bill show that the proposal itself is weak and totally inappropriate for further consideration. Legislation in the field of gambling must protect consumers and, on the other hand, protect public order from crime, such as money laundering and similar negative phenomena in society. Yes, in particular, it is important to note the problem of money laundering, which, as a rule, is constantly increasing. Privatisation and the increase in private gambling providers also reduces direct control of implementation and, on the other hand, enables ownership of the state and local communities. Of course, the drafter of the law also had to demonstrate his anti-working attitude and his tendency to make greater use of workers. It also proposes deregulation of work in the casino professions, which, of course, would reduce professionalism and reduce job security while creating greater pressure on workers' rights. Deregulation is primarily harmful to workers and workers. Deregulation in the labour market always leads to a worse position for workers as it puts them in a tight competitive position. As a result, they must be willing to work for a smaller payment and agree to a smaller amount of labour rights. Deregulation means wage and social dumping. The pressure on wages will be enormous, but at the same time the pressure on overtime, night work, weekend work, additional burdens on workers and workers will be much easier to forgive, less protection. Deregulation opens the door to the employment of agency workers who are often foreign workers whose exploitation is usually even more acute. The proposed deregulation, as is traditional for the government of Janez Janša, was, of course, not consistent with the social partners. Such coordination is unknown to the government of Janez Janša, who knows only the interests of capital. The bill before us is a simple glue, almost sound composition, which with individual pieces tries to satisfy the privatisation appetites of yet unknown actors and offers new concessions to companies who are well aware that gambling is a big and easy way to earn money. Such proposals by the government, whose ministers do not have almost any legitimacy anymore, because they are themselves involved not only in scandals but even criminal proceedings, smell like far after corruption. We do not support such proposals in Levica, but we are, of course, strongly opposed to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Andrej Shircelj, the esteemed choir! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling brings various changes both in the field of classical and specific gambling. The more important amendments to the Law on gambling are: simplification of the rules of the concessionaires' ownership structure; removal of the requirement for the statutory arrangements of concessionaires in the form of a company; suspension of licences for the activities of the development of specific gambling activities; at the same time, the obligation to meet the conditions of the playing field to be accepted by the Slovenian Gambling Association; elimination of the requirement for the establishment of concessionaires in Slovenia to set higher rates; deletion of the possibility of excluding entry and subscription fees from the basis of the calculation of the concession fee; increase of the minimum amount of the basic capital of the awarding of special games; determination of the more demanding conditions by the extension of the minimum amount of the licence; Most dust is raised by a change that regulates all types of betting and increases the number of organizers of classical gambling from two to five organisers. The minimum amount of the operator’s basic capital is set at EUR million and the contractor must pay an entry fee of EUR 500 000 for the concession granted. The new law regulates the permitted content of the bet. This should not be the case with regard to domestic political events, events contrary to the rules, constitutionally guaranteed protection of the human person, dignity, privacy and personal rights, and the protection of personal data. The notice also provides that participation in bets shall be allowed only to full-years, otherwise no payment shall be accepted. The online betting manager must state, on the front page of the online service, an inscription that warns that gambling is only allowed for older than 18 years of age and that gambling can lead to dependence. The inscription shall cover at least 5 % of the size of the first page. Criminal penalties for infringements of those provisions are also laid down. On the one hand, this proposal can be understood as an attempt to regulate and tax the part of bets, which are currently being carried out on the Internet by foreign providers. On the other hand, we can see, for example, concerns about the negative impact of the new organisers on the financing of humanitarian and disability organisations. Following the submission and publication of the bill on the websites of the National Assembly, we received a number of comments from important stakeholders in this area, as well as their explanations that they had not previously been informed of any changes to the law. In particular, it is a matter of different organisations and individuals working in the humanitarian field and in the field of caring for persons with disabilities. As a party who appreciates dialogue, we feel that they need to be taken seriously. In the first reading, we will support the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats of the Law in order to be able to deal with the law in a slightly more detailed way at the Committee's meeting, i.e. according to the articles. At this stage, there will also be an appropriate time for possible improvements to the bill's proposal by making and adopting amendments. By then, we expect to be able to listen to the comments of the important organisations and individuals affected by the law together. The support of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will therefore depend on whether the relevant comments of the most important stakeholders in this area will be taken into account in the next stages of the legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues and Government Representative! The proposed amendment to the Law on Gambling will set out a legal framework among the main innovations for the award of additional concessions for the development of gambling based on public calls and allow for the entry of additional organisers of classical gambling into our market. According to the current legislation, only Lotteri Slovenije and Sport lottery are allowed to play classical games with us. Newly, if this amendment is adopted, the market could open up to no more than three additional organisers. The proposed amendment also aligns our legal arrangements for the organisation of gambling with the acquis of the European Union and also removes certain legal restrictions on the form of companies. The proposed amendment also introduces a minimum concession fee for the adaptation of classical gambling, which will be a minimum of 5% and will not be limited. Thus far, even the lower limit has not been legally established. The arrangements remain that the amount of the concession fee for individual gambling will be laid down by the Government in the concession award decision. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware of the exposure of certain segments of our society, for which the adoption of this novel can have a vague effect, so we have weighed our decision-making process among the positive effects that the gambling market will have due to its liberalisation and among the potential exposures that market opening brings with it. We are confident that, in order to remove restrictions on the acquisition of concessions in the field of classical and specific gambling and thus increase the offer, the bill will have a positive impact both on the state budget and on other public funds. We believe that the budgets of sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations will also be increased and not reduced by implementing the proposed changes due to the granting of new concessions and increased concession fees. We also stress that the shares of concessions intended for sports and disabled humanitarian organisations or foundations are not changing, only the common fund will be higher. The considerations of the existing two concessionaires or organizers of classical gambling are, of course, the ability to understand mainly in the light of the arrival of competition, i.e. additional bidders mainly in the field of betting. This area has so far been largely unregulated and has not contributed to the state budget. But it is important to point out that with the changes to the door to foreign players of classical gambling, they are not actually opening up to a new one, because they have been open or detained for some time, since many Slovenian players are skilled at participating in platforms with gambling, which in Slovenia do not have the option of operating under current legislation. This amendment to the law, in fact, only provides the legal basis for such work and will allow and regulate the flow of financial resources from the tax collection currently taking place elsewhere. Nevertheless, we are aware that every time we regulate gambling, we also face important social issues, so we will closely monitor and actively participate in the next legislative process. Our aim is to adopt a quality systemic solution that will allow market liberalisation, of course, with appropriate and appropriate regulation, which will also have a positive financial and broader social impact. Therefore, the proposal of this novel in the first reading will be supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SAB Group, Mr Marko Bandelli will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Dear Members and Members, Minister-in-Charge, Vice-President! The fact is that the Law on Gambling has been preparing for years. Is it possible that the government of Janez Janša, along with the Minister of Finance, is the one who finally gathered the courage to make changes? Or is there, as we have already learned, another agenda behind these proposed changes that will not benefit our country and people but the ruling and their business partners? The law receives a number of comments from the public concerned. We are also reminded of the issue of the law from Brussels. Let's see why. The concession for permanent classical gambling in Slovenia has only two organizers, the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. If the law is adopted, the Government will grant three additional concessions instead of two. The obligation that a permanent concessionaire must be designed as a share company is lifted, while concessionaires are allowed to arrange gambling in cooperation with foreign organisers. Comparative law of the European Union shows that Member States generally grant only one concession, for permanent classical gambling only with the exception of two. Monopoly or duopol makes it easier for countries to exercise control, prevent crime and preserve human health. Slovenia will suddenly be a special feature of the European Union and will grant as many as five concessions. This solution is opposed by all disabled and humanitarian organisations, the last majority of which are derived from the concessions paid by classical game operators to the state budget. At the same time, the government argues that with an open market for gambling, it will increase competitiveness and raise income levels both for the budget and for organisations that provide support to socially disadvantaged and athletes, but this is not true and many studies testify to this. While competition in the economy has positive effects, gambling is the opposite. It is precisely because of the many negative effects that this sphere of economy can cause to people that this market is extremely regulated. Gambling leads to addiction and thus to people’s distress. At the same time, it is an area which, in the absence of strict regulation, regulation and supervision, opens the door to organised crime and money laundering. We already have two classical gambling players in Slovenia today, because of the additional three, competition will be greater, but to the detriment of disabled and humanitarian organisations. These will receive less funding for their funding than they have received so far. Consumers decide psychologically which game they will play, according to the winning fund that each game promises. The analysis shows that competition will require more and more winning funds, which means that the difference between the payments and the fund will be smaller. As a result, the percentage calculated from the budget allocation to disability and humanitarian organisations will be lower. We are convinced that the Government, which has prepared this law, is aware of this, otherwise it would not hide this change from the public. However, contrary to the above, the Government has laid down a controversial and harmful budget and has introduced a disguise for the socially disadvantaged, i.e. just before the law has been transmitted to Parliament and after the deadline for comments by the public concerned has expired. Even in the process of adopting this law, the government has not failed. The procedure ran completely untransparent, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on NGOs, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Protocols to this Convention. There are indications in the media that the contested provisions of this law were written by the lobby, representatives of the government and SDS instead of the professional services of the Ministry operating in the field of gambling. For example, the government in the bill on the side of classical gambling opens up the market and competition, and on the other hand this competition in the field of special gambling makes it stronger by increasing the number of permitted machines, which they have been working for in Novomatic all the time. These two simply do not go together unless, of course, those involved in these disputed provisions benefit from the prospect. The Austrian gaming group Novomatic, which now owns one third of gaming salons in Slovenia and also deals with the sale of gaming machines, is connected with the Slovenian finance minister. In the SAB, we agree that the award of concessions through public tenders will take place more transparently, but we expect clear answers and clarifications from the Minister at this point. The concessions will be divided over the previous 10 years for a period of three to five years with the possibility of an extension for the same period. The government will publish the tenders at least three times a year, and it is not clear whether the concessions will be extended only upon the publication of the invitation to tender or whether the extension will take place the same as before, i.e. after the expiry of the period and when the conditions have been fulfilled. We estimate a short period of concession for organizers for considerable gambling, which will discourage both foreign and domestic investors from gambling. Uncertainty about the extension of the concession will thus have a negative impact on all employees of the organiser who will tremble every three years for the existence of their job. The government also redefines the level of the concession fee by setting its minimum, while the concessionaire himself will be informed of the amount of the actual duty only in the concession decision. Not only does such an inappropriate procedure open up possibilities for arbitral decision-making of the Government, but it also prevents any business planning of the concessionaire. After a new one, both the fee and the admission fee will be included in the calculation of the concession fee. In the SAB, we have listened to a number of players in the casino who draw a large part of their pay for their work directly from the tip line. The fee must be distributed by the concessionaire to the workers in the form of payment for the work performance from which taxes and contributions are paid. If the collected tip is further burdened by the concession fee, it is clear that workers will receive lower pay for their work performance and therefore we oppose the proposed solution. Contrary to the expected withdrawal of the state from ownership of the novel, the lower required share of the Republic of Slovenia in companies with a concession to arrange special gambling in casinos. According to the new report, the State must have 25 % plus one share in the shareholding company and a 51 % share in the limited liability company. Why such differences, the government doesn't explain. It is also unclear from the marriage text what happens to the shares held by the municipalities, or what happens if the state does not have an appropriate share. Whether the state will spend tax money on the purchase of shares in companies involved in gambling, because otherwise it will not have a mandatory minimum share in the ownership of the concessionaire – we all wonder. The new law is completely new in the field of attitude, and the latter is dedicated to the whole chapter, since it is a specific type of classical gambling. The organisers of these games will have to pay half a million benefits to sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations. The law also contains some good solutions, such as raising fines and withdrawing concessions from those who do not pay taxes and contributions. However, in view of all the concerns explained today, we estimate that this law will have a number of negative consequences. The revenue from this activity will not only be reduced by the most vulnerable organisations that care for the socially disadvantaged and the athletes, but also by the budget. The proposed changes in gambling mean a shift from responsible gambling, with markedly negative social consequences and consequences for human health. At the same time, they make it more difficult to control, thus allowing for more illegal and criminality in this area. Is this really what we want in Slovenia? In the SAB, we believe that the amendment of the law will not lead Slovenia on the path for which we stand, so we will oppose the law at this stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Minister. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Here was a very dual debate, on the one hand support, on the other hand opposition. I would like to clarify some things, because I think that it is possible that all articles and any changes are not read or linked as a whole, and this also leads to certain claims that do not. The first thing I want to say is about the procedure itself. Here it was said that the procedure was untransparent, that it was not there, that the coalition was not consulted and so on. The public publication of this Act was from 12 February to 18 March of this year. In particular, the law was coordinated with all ministries. In particular, it was coordinated inter-sectorally, specifically coordinated with SDH, which means those who actually carry out such activities on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it was coordinated with the Government's Law Service. This law has been coordinated in coalition twice. So from this angle here, it's hard to say that it wasn't done. Of course, certain solutions have been adopted that have proved to be meaningful in this coordination. The second thing I'd like to say is that this marriage doesn't take anything from anyone, it just gives them the opportunity to share something with anyone else. In other words, if the number of providers from two to five in classical gambling is actually increasing, this does not mean that we took anything from anyone. And it also says that it can be shared that the Minister of Finance can be awarded. And, of course, in certain cases, he can also take it. So from this point of view, all these fears that have been said here today are, as if, and so on — in short, that is not the case. But it's probably convenient for fear to be created here. The next thing I would like to say is that it is likely with a great deal of success that more bidders are making a greater offer and, of course, if they are making a greater offer, transport is also expanding. I think it is difficult for someone to oppose or challenge such an attitude. More offers today provide more traffic, more profits and more income for humanitarian, disability and sports organisations as well. Nobody's taking anything here. If it has not been and is not set a degree of concessional duty, and this law defines it as a minimum, this only means greater transparency and greater legality. So from this point of view here, we can say that the matter is more transparent, the law is ready more transparent, and therefore there is also greater security for players, the advance provisions are clearer and we cannot simply conclude that this will make it a little less. That's why we just can't wrap it up. It's gonna be a lot more here. The next thing I want to say here is that all the other criteria remain the same, even with regard to the congregation, including with regard to the role of the congregations, the local communities that have in the field of gambling, in so-called large casinos, of course we are talking about here. Nothing changes there. The local community will still have the same influence it has had so far. It is essential here that the criteria for concession are maintained, that we introduce a more transparent award procedure because there will be a call for tender. Now there's no invitation to tender, and everyone's happy, or how? We are also introducing new reasons for the termination of the concession. This means, of course, that if a person fails to comply with a decision issued by a legal authority, a concession may be granted. We provide greater security as we increase the requirement for basic capital. In this regard, I fully understand the two organisers of classical gambling, who will take advantage of all the opportunities they have here to retain the existing situation. We're talking about duopol. However, the question is whether the possibility of granting such a concession to anyone else is already threatening these two. If they're so strong, so good, so marketable, then it certainly shouldn't have happened. With regard to the insinuation of some speakers who have talked about any impact on the provisions of these laws and so on, I can say that all the contacts of the Minister of Finance have been reported to the Anti-Corruption Commission and are there, the records are kept and in fact everything is transparent. So with regard to insinuations, which also appear in the media, I also understand the authors that at the exact time after certain, many years something old and so on appears, but here everything is actually transparent and they are all reported if they were with the Minister of Finance, and they are public, of course, as the media also say. From this point of view, I don't know any direct influence on marriage. Each solution has its own cause, based primarily on the reasons that have proved to be some kind of mannequin in marriage today. Today we can say that we have an opportunity for 45 salons to open, and half of them are open, which means there is probably something wrong with the strategy. This strategy is no longer in force because it has been in force for 10 years and has actually expired in 2020. From this point of view, the strategy has not come true, and today we do not have 45 salons. We also don't have as many casinos as possible, which means, in other words, the offer, the possibility of awarding concessions is greater than the willingness for someone to get a concession. The Ministry of Finance is already under second legislation, and, according to other legal bases, every three months it offers public tenders for additional concessions, and I must say that there is no great demand for this. So, yes, here I agree that, given the existing offer, the market is limited and it is likely that the market can be expanded by an additional offer. Those who play abroad can be invited to play in Slovenia with an additional offer. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Igor Peček, the first debater from the Members, now has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Gregor Jewn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! According to the applicant, an increase in the number of organisers would create competition, thus helping to improve the supply and increase the income from classical gambling. The award of concessions is expected to be more transparent, according to the Minister's interpretation, consumer protection is expected to increase, and a quality and modern offer is expected to redirect players from illegal organisers to the concessionaire. The novelty should also have a positive impact on the budget and other public funds. In my opinion, these are, in principle, the correct positions, but they are not reflected by your law with the objective set out in the provisions. I support the principled view that prosperity parallels with economic freedom and has positive effects, according to all definitions and explanations in the economy, but prosperity or prosperity can have positive and negative effects depending on the activity in which the growth takes place. The area of gambling is a very specific activity where liberalisation can have very negative effects. Here I think mainly about fraud, organised crime and ultimately addiction, excessive dependence on play. A very illustrative example, which I believe you all know, is the liberalisation of sports betting in the neighbouring countries of the former Yugoslavia, where we meet the stakes practically at every turn. Not to say that the appearance of cities or at least certain communities has changed significantly, the atmosphere has changed. I'm not going to say that there's been a debasing of this, but the feeling of someone walking past a large number of bets isn't very pleasant. I do not quite understand what the Ministry of Finance is doing with the proposal of the novel. Why? In response to the Member's question, colleague Mirnik answered, and I will quote: “The proposed concession award system will allow more active management of concession policy, which will gradually redirect the existing gaming offer to those areas where market conditions and demand exist.” End of quote. The question that comes to mind with such an explanation is as follows. Is the objective of market liberalisation or consumer protection, therefore, being pursued, and avoiding the negative effects of excessive gambling? I'm just thinking of addiction here. If it is to protect players, the offer must be limited and must not allow to hunt players. But in your answer, that's exactly what you said. As far as the procedure is concerned. The government has changed the proposal several times without allowing the public to comment on the changes. We received such warnings in the National Assembly on a daily basis from Members. Initial proposal of 15. 2. has not substantially changed the current regime. The public had the opportunity to submit its opinions by 18 March. What was the interest of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, I find it difficult to comment here because I do not know it. I'd expect they had it. On 23 June, a second version appears on the European Commission's website, according to which the classic gambling could be organized by five organisers instead of the other two, is said to be three additional organisers. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Non-Governmental Organizations, the Government should, in fact, consult these organisations on the amendment and actively involve them in the process. If we can trust them, they were not involved in this process. On 21 July, a different version of the eGovernment website, which grants concessions back to the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery, was published on the same page on 2 September, which is very similar to that of the first of 15. 2. That was the procedure, and anyone can check it out. Finally, the government sends version 30 to the National Assembly. 7. which, with the last correction at the end of August – I do not know this date – I think was 27 August – changes the situation of disabled and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Sure, if nothing else, questions and concerns. I probably don't need to explain in particular why broad public debates, professional debates, I am talking about professional debates, is important and necessary. But in the end we witnessed in the near past, when the public expert debate was simply excluded, relevant stakeholders were excluded. In my view, this can – not necessarily - be harmful and ultimately contribute to the fact that marriage solutions are bad, weak, socially harmful, and sometimes constitutionally controversial. I am afraid that the lack of discussion on the reaction of the professional stakeholders or those most affected by this law in this case means nothing but bad and harmful content, but not just the protection of some monopoly or duopole. I would like to take some facts as to why I oppose the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. For the first time because of what I have already said – that the proposal for a law was not prepared with the appropriate participation of stakeholders. Another time. Most of the gambling that is active and changing in the Member States, as the market and demand are changing, is already possible in the Republic of Slovenia. If the market is even more liberal, access to games will be even easier and the addiction to games will be even greater. Third time. The European Union does not have binding instruments to make this area harmonised in any way in each Member State. After all, it is already in some way quite harmonised in practice for all, except in the two countries, as we have heard, and we can list them ourselves, namely, Spain and Lithuania, but they have a slightly different system. Everywhere else the system is the same. According to the European Union's legal practice, which has been mentioned today, the gambling system must follow two fundamental principles. The first is consumer protection against the risks normally followed by prevention measures and the second is protection of public order. a protection of public order is aimed at preventing money laundering and organised crime. We have heard that the amendment of the law was being prepared without analysis of data on the foreseeable negative social impact of these changes. I am not sure about the credibility of the data itself, as far as I am aware, the analysis has been done, at least a partial analysis by an organisation from Zagreb, as far as I am aware, that you will confirm or deny me, Mr Minister, because I am not sure. But I took some time myself, and I examined two analyses in detail, one is the Impact Assessment of Alice Rap, the European Commission, and the other is a completely independent analysis completed three years ago by Mr Mark Griffith from the University of Nottingham. To sum up the essence of these two analyses, there is not even a very worrying number of players that have recently increased in gambling, as this depends on the individual country as well as the area or the population in a particular area. The other thing that is worrying, very worrying, is that addiction, once addictive, is reflected in collapses. This means that if I simplify that someone who is addicted to gambling is practically losing everything in this game, the amounts become enormous, the property is also lost, real estate and more. This is what any judgment should have before it interferes with such a risky area as gambling or gambling. According to the European Lottery Association, the current arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia are good. After all, you yourself said this spring that our regulation is in line with the acquis of the European Union and that the practices that apply outside are consistent with ours or with the system that we have in the Republic of Slovenia and that changing our system would be detrimental. 49. Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union needs to be interpreted in such a way that a Member State wishing to ensure high consumer protection in gambling is justified in its view that by establishing a system it can pursue two objectives that can be pursued by public authorities or institutions. These two objectives must be taken absolutely into account and are also the reason why the analysis or assessment of the impact of the adoption or amendment of such a difficult law is carried out. Now I'm gonna do it again. The first is the management of crime, fraud and money laundering, while the second is excessive spending, spending money on gambling and preventing addiction. If in the end I come back with only one sentence to begin with. If the Government had held a broader debate, it would have included all relevant stakeholders in the drafting of the text of the amendment, carried out a thorough analysis of the impact assessment, most likely – this is my opinion – such a proposal would not be on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word has a Gregory of the Jews, to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start with one — what do you say? — an anecdota, which says: “The mother did not beat John because he bet, but because he was then saved.” We usually bet our money, but we get rid of foreign money, and that's one of the main mottos of those who play. I know both games, it's called classic loto and also sports bets. In a flight, we can say that it's kind of socially acceptable because we're playing to have fun, but in sports betting, I think the main motto is that you get the profits, and some of them live. If we move on. The sports lottery of Slovenia, which organizes these games with us, can be considered a public interest because it is also – what would you say? – the country is informed in their structure. Even with the new bidders, I do not know if these foreign providers - I suppose these foreign suppliers - will have such a public interest and defend that this money is returning to Slovenia. I think that their interest will be more in this context, in order to destroy the Sports Lottery of Slovenia, and in the event that you still get the concession, these two will still be our own. We know that various sports organisations also own sports lotteries, so that money is returned directly to sport. Here I will mention a little more that the Slovenian market is limited. There are only 2 million of us and to encourage more people to play, I don't think it's more productive. It is said that five bidders will have exactly that as many people as possible will play these gambling games. I don't think that's very good. While the Minister says that sports organisations and disability organisations will not be aware of anything to get less. This is exactly what I fear because these sports organisations or their programmes or facilities and disability organisations are one of the main sources of funding. Next thing. As I mentioned earlier, do we want more gambling? The one who plays with his head is not a problem. The problem is one who plays more than his abilities, which leads to greater addiction, more social problems. We are leaving the assumption, as the minister said, that the state will still get more, but will also have to make more use of it to separate from gambling and solve social problems. This foreign country knows this very well, and I think it is better to put money into other things or for the normal healing of people. I don't know if you've been thinking about it, at one point, the lucky tax was introduced, right? This brings some money into the account, but it was said that it would only be the current tax and that it would then be abolished, but now there is no talk about it. Next thing you know, a minimum number of vending machines. Once again, we're going to say that this leads to dependence, which is what bothers me more in the background, is that it's probably only going to be able to do it in large companies, that's what the big players are saying. In my opinion, this suggests that he is — what would he say? – a new law for really big players who probably have other things to do with some people from the current government. If I understand well how money comes into the Slovenian account, the difference between the amount paid and the amount paid. I call it bet odds, especially at sports bets. If new players arrive, these betting quotas will have to be increased, which means higher payouts and consequently lower incomes for sports organisations and for the budget. Again, I do not know whether this is in the interest of Slovenia. It's over. I have a feeling that after talking to some who were in the previous reference, when a change of law or a new law was not adopted, that all the bad solutions in this proposal are, and this does not mean an improvement in the current situation. I just don't see any sense in accepting this new law at all. There's so much in the end. For a while I advocated liberalizing the field of sports betting, mainly because I lived in Maribor for a while and went to Austria to pay my bets. It's not much, but I can tell you that we wouldn't go to Austria. I think there's another way to get these players back or home to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! This marriage, to tell you the truth, I don't understand. Why is it necessary to accept where those roads are? I get to know myself a little at the casino, not so much at classical games as at special gambling, because for many years I was a member of the College of Director Casino Portorož and also one year member of the board and I know this activity. I know how it worked, and I know how it works now. Sometimes – I say again – at the beginning of our independent journey the Slovenians were not allowed to go to the casinos. In order to organize special gambling, they were intended for foreign markets, attract tourists, fill the pool. That is why casinos, both the Portorož casino, which unfortunately gave up very much like the Hit casino, which is still 90 percent present in the foreign market, attracted tourism to these places. In this direction, casinos invested a lot of money in the development of tourism infrastructure, i.e. foreign money they brought here, and as much as they earned, they invested in tourism infrastructure. In the tourist town of Portorož, so built was marina, airport, congress center, auditorium, renovated Tartini theatre, Tartini square built, many other things, and also in other places on the coast. Therefore, for the development and promotion of tourism and the invitation of tourists, much has also been given for advertising on the Italian market, where Hit is still very effective, as it attracts and creates in fact abroad. So, we used foreign money to build our own home, to develop tourism. Well, it was also taxes and general baskets, in the budget. Now we are saying, the only serious argument I have heard so far was that by releasing the market we will increase prosperity. Do you understand where we're relaxing? We're letting strangers come to us so they can raise money for their locals. So they can raise money and expand the network to cover as much as possible. Has anyone ever talked to any of the employees in these playrooms, the roller coasters, the grocers? Valeis are hostesses and stewardesses who serve drinks. What happens when they retire? These salons are filling up again. We're putting people in despair. I know exactly where in Lignan Sabbiador and the neighboring places in Italy was the fault of a casino that we were not proud of, but those who were addicted were losing hotels, destroying families. We want to expand this so that competition on the domestic market can be offered to the market, that our people, including the poor, will go there to spend money – many of them become enquired, proven as much as you want these studies – and make the money they spend in these casinos give to foreigners to serve and benefit from it. It's in conflict with all logic. The fact is that this is a conspiracy, blind faith – that is faith, that is not true, nothing is true, that the free market is just an economic fiction, that is exactly what Mr Minister knows. There is no free market, the market is always regulated. If not, I will simply tell you, the regulated labour market is that children are not allowed to work. Here, let me tell you a case that goes on everywhere. The market for gambling is regulated for this – and Europe supports it, and we have it done so and we have it done before – because it is harmful if we spread it and if we persuade people to carry money there. To some extent, it has to relax, but it has to be regulated and it's regulated everywhere. And we say, now we're going to release this, that people are going to go into an accident, we're going to invite them to do extra, we're going to do extra addicts, as my fellow Jew stressed, and then we're going to have more social transfers to solve this. Give it a rest. Stop this propaganda. The free market is not a solution, for very few things is a solution and nowhere is there a clean free market, as have the last two crises, 2008 and the pandemic now. And the Nobel Prizes, if you look at it, are now given to economists not to advocates of the free market, but to an experimental economy that proves that these mantras are not real. With some Flossules we listen to them all the time, it has to be free, it has to be competitive. Have you read that the closing of the “doing business” is also at the World Bank? Because they were made. Markets are always organized, people are God's, they're always organized – either by those who are the most powerful, or by those who are administratively shut down by those who have no access to money, information, and so on. For some protection of certain rights, and so on, they are always regulated. And this market needs to be regulated, believe me. Because it's like that everywhere. Driving one such law past all professional judgements and despite brief public debates and adding some substantial changes in it shows that there are also lobbying back here, as was the case with tobacco law and so on, that the lobbying work here and someone must have some benefit. Otherwise, I can't explain that such a law is being enforced. This must be seriously rejected. This isn't a serious job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very nice greetings, Minister and all the other colleagues and colleagues in the hall and also those who accompany us at home, especially those who work in casinos, casino salons and those who engage in classical gambling! I'm probably the only one in here who's from Nova Gorica, where gambling is the most present, and I know this situation very well by the employer, is called Hita, as well as the employees. You have probably noticed in the media several times that we were sitting during the period of adoption of legislative changes with all those involved in this law being touched by employers, but not only the Hit, which is the largest employer in the mountain region, in the field of gambling, but also the representatives of workers, trade unions and owners of smaller private gaming salons. If a common position is summarised, it was crucial for all of them to maintain the situation as it has been, but we know that such a situation, such a law as we have today, cannot be in accordance with and not in accordance with European legislation. Today, much has been said in the direction that employees do not agree with certain changes and not the owners of casinos and gaming salons, but the employer himself said that he agrees with the entry of foreign capital, because Hit himself has been asleep in the last period, if you have been monitoring any way. When Hit fell asleep in development, the entire environment, the whole region, fell asleep. This is agreed by both the employer and the employees, it is said that the union representative did not object to the entry of foreign capital. In order to follow European legislation and allow this to change legislation in our field, the Government's proposal is that, in addition to being organised as a legal organisational form, not only a share company, but also an economic company, the share of the Republic of Slovenia inwards, which shows that the state still has a supervisory function over the operation, namely, that 25% plus one share is maintained in the shares companies and 51% in the business sector. This condition is satisfied, otherwise they would be contrary to Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides for the free provision of services in the internal market. This ensures that we do not violate this Article, which means that it is necessary to amend the legislation. Canceling licenses. The employer also agrees with the withdrawal of the licence. In particular, this proved to be true in the last period of the epidemic, because there were many employees who were either for health reasons or for any other reason at home, and so the employer had his hands tied, because he could not transfer workers within the collective. It's a big obstacle to business. However, it is not that an obstacle to the employer is the only reason, but it is also contrary to the free movement of the labour force, because by this we restrict the entry of others who could meet the other conditions, but because of the condition of the licence change, employment is difficult. It is said that the abolition of the licence is in line with the guidelines of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, which requires a reduction in the number of regulated professions, since such an arrangement is an administrative obstacle to employment and increases labour costs. This does not mean, in fact, that all the expertise in a particular area is withdrawn, but, as in other companies, this knowledge can be replaced by the systemisation of jobs itself. And that's what employers have pointed out, especially Hit and also the smaller gaming salons, that they will handle it with just the systemization they have. There'll be no damage to the employees here. Of course, employees of this, if unions and employees are listened to, oppose, but this is normal for any consequence within a collective. Perhaps you have also met yourself with a desire to change things in the organization and there is always opposition. Much has been said about privatisation being harmful. There will be no harm done, but I tell you that the local community also sees that on account of the fact that Hit cannot develop as it could develop, even because of the restriction on the entry of foreign capital, damage. Because it has fewer concession fees, not to mention now the period when the casinos were one of the most hit during the coronation period, and they were also closed for the most time. The municipalities, those who had casinos, suffered a great deal of damage. This means that it has actually been known in investments and in all other areas within the municipalities. It is therefore necessary to monitor and listen in this respect that the municipalities receive more from concession fees if we allow casinos and casinos to develop. Besides, they will not – you must know that Nova Gorica fell asleep because everything else died at the time of the rise. Because the companies and all those who were connected to the Hit also received large amounts of sponsorship from the Hit, and they counted on it. As soon as Hit could no longer give it, a number of societies were forced to close down or lose a large portion of their resources. We can't afford this anymore. At least in Goriška, I'm telling you we can't afford this. There is also talk of lower labour rights. Smaller labour rights — that is not true. Let's have a little chat with the staff. They are employed from the fabulous wages that were at the time of the fat cows, falling to such a low level that they themselves say that something should be done, that something should be changed because they would have their wages back at least about what they had, or that at least something would be known. So not everything is always so black in terms of employees as well, and it is necessary to take a step further in order to have the motivation to have higher wages again. But the worst part is that over the last period, instead of developing, Hit is looking for a solution to reduce the cost of doing business in such a way that it actually starts by forgiving employees. That's what's worrying. To stop the employee's forgiveness. But we can only stop him by making some changes. Maintaining a state like today is unacceptable. I would also like to point out what is a major obstacle to development and also to increasing the revenues of casinos and gaming salons. The fact that the setting up of online gambling in the Republic of Slovenia is too tight in such a way that – other countries have this more open – I will then give an example from Italy, which is once again the closest competition to Nova Gorica – requires in the rules on gambling through the Internet or other telecommunications means that it must have hardware and software based in Slovenia. It is said that it must be located in Slovenia, which we know is very difficult to ensure, especially from a financial point of view, because this equipment is very expensive and our market is too small. As a result, we need to look not only at the changes in this law but also at the need to look at it more widely. This law must be our basis so that we can then make the other changes, so that in fact our market can adapt to neighbouring markets around our country, so that I do not go looking further at other European Union countries. I am particularly looking at this aspect, which countries are close to us and are actually the most competitive for us. Of course, much has been said in the following about taxes, but perhaps I should first refer to what I said earlier about online games. In Italy they actually have the most developed online gaming and have already granted 33 licenses, but now they offer the largest range of online gambling between all European countries, as it is possible to obtain a license for online betting, horse racing, poker tournaments, lottery games, gaming games and games on gaming machines. Each gambling platform for online gambling for which a licence is granted in Italy must, of course, be authorised and auctioned by the supervisory authority. The rules governing online gaming are, in fact, adopted to allow operators to ensure that players have the opportunity to make themselves self-prohibited or to limit themselves to business. Live casinos also have limited access to gambling, and this is also possible online in Italy. In this way we can regulate online gambling, which does not mean that we increase addiction and all other problems that arise in gambling, either online or any other. There's something else about taxation. Of course, you probably got various tips on taxation yourself. Taxation is higher in us than in Italian gaming salons, which is a great competition for both Hit and others. But the fact is that the law that we have before us today does not touch that, and therefore I think that the Government has rightly said that it now refers to changes to other areas rather than to tax changes. Perhaps even with regard to limiting proliferation or limiting the spread of too much play. There is no need to limit, there is no need, because we have actually seen that we have more offers than demand for what they now have to get licenses for, both in the field of gaming machines and in the casinos. The changes in the law have followed the trends that are emerging in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Baković, to prepare Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Gambling can always be a grateful target for anyone, not least for the authorities or the state, but for one common denominator, that is money. Around the world, these things are very different. As an interesting thing, in the United States, some countries, especially on the East Coast, grant concessions for the adaptation or organization of casinos only and only to Indians, which should be a ransom for the historical injustices that have been committed to them and so on and so forth. With us it is so arranged that we have two performers of these games luckily, these are Lottery and Sports Lottery. The new law that we are considering today stipulates that there should be five. Sport lottery in itself opposes these changes for reasons of endangering stable and systematic financing of Slovenian sport. If we know that Lottery has all lottery games and Sports lottery bets, it is also necessary to understand from the point of view that both organisers are obliged to pay certain taxes that go into the state budget. I think there are three taxes, one of them is concession fees that have to be paid by the organizers to be able to organise them at all. And if the National Assembly approves the proposed amendment, the number of organisers will increase to five and the number of concessions will be awarded to medaries on the basis of a public tender. Many believe that these changes are designed to endanger the stable and systemic functioning of Slovenian sport. This is also pointed out by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which say that these conclusions further underline the concerns that the amendment of the law does not offer a new offer and completely ignores the negative social effects such as addiction, sport challenges, crime, money laundering and so on. There is also a significant increase in risk supply and is not defined to the increased need for control. It is also true that in addition to the government some but rarely welcome this novel and justify its positive effects. But in every case, there is always someone who, for various reasons or interests, opposes most. In this case, most say that this novel is inappropriate and harmful. This majority argues that the current regime was appropriate. In view of what my previous colleague has discussed, as well as the need to ask about the opinion of the workers in the casinos, I think that you have all received, because it is addressed to all the Members' groups, a letter from the Council of Workers in Casino Portorož stating that the proposal as such is not appropriate and appropriate, as the amendment raises a number of questions that are not answered in the proposal itself, and that certain solutions may also be contrary to the current rules and that they believe that the proposed solution will introduce an extremely high level of risk in the business of the concessionaires themselves, and thus would also affect the precarious situation of all employees in the sector and so on. So it's not exactly from the vine. Finally, today, when I was driving to work, I listened to the contribution of this Belgian legal expert, who is justifying a monopoly on gambling with fairly strong arguments. These are to make it easier to control it and to redirect it faster. It also says that competition is not good here because it does not provide a better product to the consumer, but leads to overheating of the market and a greater risk of addiction. The case law clearly states that consumers must be protected from crime and fraud, otherwise the current legislation on gambling is based on it. The logical question that follows is why change it, why fix something that works. In the absence of any consultations, no analyses have been carried out, not to answer the question whether the change will increase the risk of addiction and the risk of problematic gambling, it is said to be illegal and anything else. The reason that opening the market will bring more money to the state is not, in fact, sustainable and is not the most important one. There is also talk of congregations getting more money. I do not know why the Association of Municipal Communities then opposes the novelty and says that by closing the market for classical and lottery games luckily would result in a decline in the amount of the tax levied on them from the profits they receive from Slovenian municipalities, as well as from disabled and humanitarian organisations, and consequently would, of course, receive less money. In fact, if we look at it this way, the novels are against everyone or I'll say all the relevant organizations, both the casino workers, sports, foundations, disabled people and others. They point out that the novel is unthinkable, unfounded and not substantiated by appropriate analyses and its implementation would have serious negative consequences. Once again, I wonder why it is necessary to repair something that is not corrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word to prepare for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. In the process of drafting and adopting this law, it is more than obvious before the legislative process begins that the amendment of the Law on Gambling is a very sensitive area, a sensitive topic. This is evidenced by a large number of letters, comments, interested groups, stakeholders received by all Members, all Members' groups, with various concerns, in particular by expressing some negative views, I would say that on a bit of a fragmented basis or misleading or either intentional or inadvertent ignorance of the concrete content solutions that this novel brings. When I listened carefully to all the presentations of the positions of the members of the groups, I liked the expression used by Mr Polnar in the name of Desus, “happiness in the state direction”. In particular, the term is very appropriate from the point of view of past times, when we know that gambling was also an entry point for the flow of convertible currencies, and we know who controlled the sphere at that time, also why and how economic practices were used or implemented in more greyer zones at the border or across the borders of legality. Even today, temptations are great for a variety of illegal activities in cooperation with organised crime, money laundering. This is why it is so important for this area that it is properly regulated and supervised, but I can agree that it is also socially sensitive. The phenomenon, the danger of addiction, is a topic in which we must make a very great deal of efforts to prevent it. Last thing is, we'd like the area of gambling to expand or popularize to the entire population. There are also indications that some opposition Members have been exposed in their positions that the issue was not politically coordinated, but that the coalition partners did not know what version would be adopted. Interestingly, this is disputed by those who no longer participate in these coalition coordinations and discussions. In fact, the coalition has already coordinated all those key substantive solutions in three consecutive attempts in May, so I don't know why our former colleagues like to praise or claim things they don't know with such a political bluff. I would also like to point out the multitude of letters, in particular stakeholders in the field of disability and humanitarian organisations, who have responded to the most warnings that the proposed novel will jeopardise the financing of their organisations, societies and associations, in order to make less money for such a sensitive social area. I would like to point out that the purpose of this novel is exactly the opposite – a larger bag of money and a completely unchanged distribution of funding or distribution of these shares to finance sports organisations and, on the other hand, disabled and humanitarian organisations. Those who have read the legal provisions in detail and well will see that, on the one hand, greater liberalisation, regulation of sports betting and classical gambling will increase the possibility of increasing the number of concessionaires from two to five of these financial funds and will not reduce. Of course, the proportion or resources to be allocated to disabled and sports organisations will also be higher and not smaller. Maybe someone's in the way, I believe, of greater competition in the field. Above all, the legal framework will be crystallised. This is an area that represents a grey fox and today does not contribute to the state budget, and this law is now correcting or regulating in the right way, as I myself assess. Even with regard to the deregulation of the casino professions. I'm assessing for myself that this is a positive signal. It will enable not only on the one hand – some see it – to make it easier to forgive workers, but especially easier to employ and it is in the interest of workers, workers and in this context too, that some professional associations in the quasi-public interest will not harm them financially before they become involved in the field of gambling for someone who is still in need of professional training. After this is no longer necessary, the employer will be the one who will provide training and education for his staff, and if he so assesses, he will hire an appropriate organisation on the market to train his workers properly or during further work there on a regular basis. So no, this is not only in the interests of employers but also of workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli, ready to be Juré Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you, Chairman. I don't have a lot of time, but I'd like to ask the minister a few questions, and I'd like to know if it's possible if you give him a chance to answer that. What interest, Minister, do we have to grant concessions to strangers? What interest is it for Slovenia that we grant concessions to foreigners? That's the first thing. I don't see any interest here, just damage, only damage in our country, as far as that's concerned. The media always says that you have personal contact with Novomatic. That's what I'm asking, here I'm asking you, people are asking, people, do you really have contacts and contacts with Novomatic? Because that's how you protect them, and you want me to not know how many more of these machines there are, and I don't know what it is. By knowing for yourself that they are already in control of one third of the market. And we'd like to give you an even bigger number of machines. They're also the ones who sell it. It doesn't bother me anything, but it's a concession, which I'm very interested in. The profession in the casino is of the opinion that at the moment changes in the ownership structure are not good and you are working on selling. Because that's the purpose of this law. The second thing I'm interested in is why taxing tips is a double tax. The tips are taxed when they go to pay, and they're distributed evenly, proportionally with everyone. When it goes to gross, it is the first and second gross, everything is taxed, taxes and contributions. Why tax tips again? This is not clear to anyone but even less to those who work in this sector. New concessionaires. You know what I'm saying. I absolutely do not agree with my colleague that if there are more concessionaires, there will be more gambling. Private concessionaires won't give anything. They won't give anything. If there's a concessionaire, where the country is next to where the congregation is, where the others are, we know what this was all about. A colleague who spoke about Hit earlier — I too was interviewed and told me exactly where he was going, how much they had restored. Do you know that the municipalities that gave up concessions received – for example the Municipality of Komen, where I was mayor – 250 000 euros from this title each year? One million euros came from this address to the congregation. You don't know that. You probably don't know that. Are we going to open new concessions now? So, there we're going to reduce who's going to give more money, these differences that came in, which were meant for local self-government, to improve life in these places? They will not give to humanitarian organisations or to humanitarian organisations for charitable purposes. Here you have to ask yourself what this law really is — a harmful marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Just an answer because it was addressed directly to me. I have no contact with Novomatic, except for the contact I have notified to the Commission to prevent corruption. And this contact wasn't just with me, it was with other employees at the Ministry of Finance, and that was the record. I don't have any other contacts. What they're saying is, they're baseless, they're baseless, they're inconvenient.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrjan" and Jože Lenart is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister of Finance, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, and all those who accompany us, one fine day! We have before us a novel of the Law on Gambling, which we have heard quite a few words about today. Allow me to point out in my debate, however, the key elements that this new law brings. It seems important to me that this bill aligns the legal order with the European Union or the acquis of the European Union and that this area is also regulated in an integrated manner, as it relates to gambling itself and the position. The new novelty is to increase the number of possible classical players from two to five and the award of concessions will take place on the basis of a public tender. It is also important as one such specific case that fines are raised and the possibility of immediate withdrawal of the concession is possible if the operator does not pay the necessary concessions or charges and taxes. In general, we can say that greater supply and market liberalisation also mean greater consumption, resulting in higher profits, and in the next step, as the rates for FIHO and the FSO are not changing, of course also higher income for financing the fund for sport and funding for the Foundation for Humanitarian and Disability Organisations, which is important, perhaps even a key data. To be a little more specific, we can look at the existing market for sport gambling in Slovenia, according to data published by the relevant shareholder, namely Sports lottery as an exclusive provider of sports betting. In 2019, 5.4 million concessions and 10.6 million euro tax payments were reported. However, the estimate for this market was around EUR 300 million in 2019. In view of the fact that half of these funds are made from the point of view of gambling, casinos where the majority is foreign have paid off some 200 million euros. If we put this in the international context, in the context of the European Union, the market is around EUR 100 billion. EUR 100 billion is at European Union level and EUR 200 million has paid domestic consumption or payments from this address in Slovenia or if we count all payments of EUR 300 million. So we can see, in Slovenia, 300 million euros, and at European Union level, the market is 100 billion euros. From this we can see that the Slovenian market is underdeveloped and, if we look at the analysis, only three countries have a monopoly in this area in the European Union, three countries are in the middle of it and the rest have liberalised the market. If we focus on this point, for example, France, Denmark and Poland, these years after their market liberalisation, the growth in revenues from this title has been significantly higher or the market has grown significantly more than can be seen by some conservative forecasts, where this growth is around 8%. In these countries, or after growth as it has been in these countries, this growth can be doubled or even tripled. This means, if I simplify, what is also crucial, because the rate, how much money will be spent on a fund for sport and a fund for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations. As the market increases when it pays more, of course, there will also be more resources for sport and humanitarian organisations. This is a key message. In addition to the fact that the matter is finally being regulated in accordance with the European Union acquis, the market is essentially opening up, which also brings wider economic benefits. Here maybe even for intermezzo what I mentioned earlier, these numbers. It was, say, 5.4 million concessions and 10.6 million Euros of tax payments, which was in 2019 according to the figures of the Sports Lottery. By liberalising the market, assuming some conservative growth at around 8% per annum, we can expect this figure to increase to 9.5 and 17.9 million euros by 2025. If we follow this more encouraging scenario, which has already been present in some countries in the past, we can see that these amounts are even higher, i.e. EUR 23 and 44 million. It is true that these forecasts are, for example, made for a segment of sports betting, but of course they can have an incentive effect on the whole market for gambling and, of course, this means additional effects, as regards some additional tax fiscal resources for concession-funded organisations and gambling taxation. It is also important to raise the minimum amount of the operator’s core capital to EUR 1 million. There are a few things that will finally settle this area. It is also important to highlight the fact that the law was in the process of considering that the inter-ministerial harmonisation was, that there was much to be done in this area. After all, today we have a first reading of the law and we can exchange opinions, and I am sure that, if necessary, we will further drink the law in the next parliamentary procedure. I hope that the law will go through the procedure and that, as part of these allegations, there will also be such a real impact and that, under this law, there will be more money for Slovenian sport and more money for Slovenian humanitarian and disability organisations in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The word has Jože Lenart, to prepare Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again in the debate. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to make a few specific points. I hope you can answer my question. I will honestly say that years ago I myself thought that by increasing gambling, we could bring more resources to sport and humanitarian organisations, of course in a positive sense. I'm thinking differently today. The word monopoly itself is inferior and must be broken for the sake of competition, but in the case of gambling, the monopoly has a completely different task. In particular, it is a matter of regulation and supervision of this area. This can only be achieved by the fact that the monopoly is under the hands of the state. And behind two important moments, the social aspect of addiction and the aspect of money laundering or crime. It also appears in practice that this is a danger and can escape dangerously if we put our hands on it. Secondly, what we have strongly warned about in the position of the LMŠ. Why – this is a key question here. Why did not the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, provide us with a specific analysis, to the public, to all stakeholders and to us in the National Assembly? That's what makes it hard to know what's behind it. Did you deliberately let go? That's what we missed. But to put it concretely, we've gotten to some of the analyses ourselves. One was published only today, and you probably were the Ministry of Finance's contracting officer, and you didn't put it in public. It's an analysis of two experts, Igor Masten and Ana Grdovic Gnip, if I'm not mistaken, I don't know about it in public. After I passed this analysis today as an analyst, I ask myself the following questions. This analysis relates only to bets, but I was happy, at least we have something in our hands. Here experts note that Slovenia averages less than 50% of GDP compared to the average in the European Union. Here is one such information that tells us something only about the field of bets. Their analysis then tells what this marriage would bring, and they play with the numbers. Today, Europe is expected to invest €310 on average in bets, about €100 in Slovenia. And they play with this increase in what this would bring, and then they come into the field if this law entered into force, what these expectations are. The following suggests that in Slovenia we could reach EUR 159 or an average of EUR 334 per capita in an open-ended scenario. When you think like this, you say to yourself, "How many residents and residents are going to play this game?" Here, of course, we have to limit ourselves only to bets, but I say that more than 10% are not actively involved in this, maybe a little more, not just occasionally, but those regular players. And if you say so, it's already a number if 10% of citizens and citizens play with it, a thousand 670 euros a year. On average, that's what they're already giving for gambling, that's 10%, one's probably 10,000, and the other's a little bit less. If this was the case, then we must say that in this growth, an average of 10% of the population and the population would invest up to EUR 3 000 340 only in bets. And then there's the lottery. There's that aspect. While this analysis says something in one part, it does not touch the social aspect, addiction. If it comes to this equipment, because something's come under our hands now. That is why, of course, man is in doubt, and I do not know the reason why you did not make an effort to give some concrete analysis to people. Because this area is dangerous in its own way. Another analysis that we can turn to. Let's leave those analyses that were misleading, and as my colleague had said before, they were even removed with the help of a lawyer because they were deceiving. Here I have another study from Mediana, which, based on this study of hers, has obtained some data from this study. Of course, the Ministry or the Government did not provide us. If I just read the conclusions. The potential additional concession fees for both foundations would amount to €90 million together at the time of the opening of the market at best, while at the same time significantly increasing the risk of gambling addiction. Funds for local communities and dividends would be reduced and fraud and money laundering would increase. That's what they say. Everybody loses. And what we have already said, the shareholders of the Lottery of Slovenia, now each year the funds are received by both the state and the two foundations, in which case they would be made in private pockets instead of both foundations, sports organisations and the country. These are the research. I think they're relevant if this was done publicly. In this regard, it should also be stressed that in the case of lottery games this effect would not have occurred at all, as if the funds for major winnings in lottery games instead of one would have raised more players, this would have resulted in the fragmentation and reduction of the value of the main winnings, which are the key motivation for players' entry into the game. However, the effect would be exactly the opposite of the expected, smaller and not greater overall traffic. There is something that this study also points to — in social terms — about addiction. And these consequences are very great. Today I also stressed that the Minister covering sport and someone for work and education and the rest – the question is whether these two ministries agree on this legislation or have you literally forced them to do so. Because social consequences can be disastrous. Once again, I do not want the state of Slovenia to go into this area of “hazard” and then a certain percentage of people go into it and on the other hand there are social problems that the state has to solve in one way or another. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, ready to be Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! I don't have much time anymore, so I'm going to try to say as short as possible what I'm going to say. We also note from this bill that this government has obviously decided to give foreigners a good part of Slovenian silver. Let us just remember the pharmacy activity that we have managed to prevent here. Today we are talking about concessions in gambling. I wonder why, Mr. Minister, you have made this decision with regard to all the conflicting opinions of all those involved in this law. I'm not going to speculate about this, but we can read a lot. But whatever. We do not understand the aim of the Ministry of Finance with a proposal for a novel. In answer to my question, which I have already asked you a long time ago, you have answered me that "the proposed concession award system will enable more active management of concession policy, which will gradually shift the existing gaming offer to those areas where there are market conditions and demand", the end of the line. Are you therefore pursuing the objective of market liberalisation or consumer protection and preventing the negative effects of excessive gambling, i.e. addiction? For if he wants to protect players, the offer must be limited and must not allow or, to say the least, encourage some hunt for new players. Today, my colleagues Igor and Jože have also said that you have not prepared the analysis. Why not? That's very interesting. All that was going on with this law was actually, and the concealment of publishing such and different versions, and then eventually something came in about the Lottery of Slovenia and so on. This is interesting behavior, and even interesting behavior, if the Minister of Finance does so. At the very least, of course, we Members are immediately beginning to suspect something strange is going on. And then we get letters, or e-mails every day, all the possible people involved in this law, and then we put together a story. Minister, you yourself have said, I quote: "This law gives the opportunity to give anything to anyone else." End of story. So you're hiding which lobbyists were involved in the formation of this law? "To share something with anyone else." The question is, who and why are you going to give something away? More. What happened to this marriage? Practically all humanitarian, disability and sports organisations are alerting us to the danger and harmful changes in this law, as market liberalisation will reduce transparency and lower income for disabled and sports organisations. I will list only the disabled organisations that have written us to oppose this law: the Society of Distrophysics of Slovenia, the Council of Disabled Republics, the Association for Chronic Intestinal Diseases, the Association of Associations to Help Persons with Mental and Visual Disorders, the Association of Disabled Persons, the Association of Slovenian Anti-cancer Associations, the Association of Deaf and Deaf Associations, the Society of Vita for Assistance in Accidental Headache, the Association of Disabled Persons of ILCO Slovenia, the Association of Paralytics of Slovenia, it is already 12th organization, and 13. National Council of Disability Organizations. This is 13 only disabled organizations who have written to us that they do not agree with the amendments to this law. I don't even want to list any other humanitarian and sports people. Mr Minister, this is a strange “peat” you are going to, the “peat” in quotes, of course, with very vague goals, or you probably have, but you have not told us or presented them with analysis and presentation to the Member, so we do not know exactly what the effects of this arrangement will be. It is also unclear what will happen with the co-financing of those projects that these various organisations could now finance from this money they knew how much they would receive and, of course, carried out these projects. Therefore, I must tell you that in the LMŠ we categorically oppose this proposal and reject this amendment. We hope that other colleagues will do the same because, because of the situation we are in, even with all the poofs that you have made last year and a half in this government, it will be very difficult to survive in the coming years. I would therefore politely ask you to refrain from all these harmful practices. I would expect the Minister of Finance to be the first proponent of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Very briefly. Either way, it has been understood or it is an excision from my entire explanation, here I can say that the law based on acceptance or non-admission, it is said that if a law is passed in the National Assembly, lays down the criteria to which it can, it is not necessary for the Minister of Finance to grant a concession. So it'll be perfectly clear. Thus, the legal conditions for granting any concession are laid down in the law itself, which means that the concession is granted on the basis of the fulfilment of the conditions. I've said it many times today, and so on. I had, I think, two contacts with the gaming sector, both reported to the KPK. You can look at this on your website. All the rest are inadvertent insinuations and I have no contact with any foreign gaming companies, any other than those that have been reported. I guess I have to say it again here. I think it's the third time I've done it. Next thing you know about gambling. Today there are 45 concessions available for gaming salons, given 22 or 23. Also on the basis of public tenders, and so on, no others are actually applying, so that, last but not least, the supply is greater than the demand for the current legislation. From this point of view, speaking now of the gambling market for special gambling. Here you have to distinguish between special gambling and classic gambling. And these insinuations that you're just saying here, given that I've said this a few times before, I don't take that for granted, and I guarantee you 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Replica, Lydia Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Mr Minister, if there are already 23 tender concessions available, then it is not clear why you are expanding and opening this field again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the first reading, I will support this bill, the amendments to the Gambling Act. I am convinced that today's debate is constructive, and on the basis of today's debate, I am convinced that we can all come to the realization that we need some changes in the field of the gambling law. There is no doubt, however, that I cannot agree with the vast majority of the opposition Members and Members who strongly oppose the amendment of this law. I am convinced that the state of play in Slovenia is not ideal and that this segment needs to be changed. If we go to the field of sports betting, I am sure that we have not highlighted one key issue here today or that it is more or less obvious – how much money flows abroad on the basis of payments through foreign online betting or a visit to foreign betting sites, in neighbouring countries. This seems to me to be a key problem and it should be possible to obtain information on how much money is being lost in this way. I'm sure that's something. Dear Minister, do you have any study, with what information, how many players each year decide to play on foreign websites and the Slovenian state, the Slovenian budget loses on this basis? Something was also said about responsible play, addiction to games, access to play by minors. I think there's a lot of change to be done here. The fact is that it is necessary to protect minors who are probably more likely to use these games every day, which are actually accessible to them. I cannot agree with some who say that these games are not accessible. Every gas service, every post office today has the possibility that players use and play this game. This means that accessibility in Slovenia is considerable. I am convinced that these are allegations of a reduction in concession fees here to abuse this and that this is an abuse both by FIHO and by the FSO. I am confident that the gambling law, which is ready at a given time, will not reduce concession fees, nor do I see any reason to reduce these revenues for FIHO and for the FSO. Especially since this law would create even more regulatory and even more control in Slovenia. I believe that the opening of a market does not suit anyone in Slovenia. We already know that we had this topic on the table in 2018. In fact, the National Assembly then voted on this law and then, after some pressure, after the fourth vote or after the veto of the State Council, there was no green light on the amendment to the liberalisation or opening up of the sports betting market. Even though some clubs and even some of the branches had supported the opening system at the time. As I said before, the key issue seems to me that some people here are trying to close their eyes, even if these concessions are granted to foreigners. True, they give themselves to foreigners, but with the aim of earning money from Slovenia. Today, the money of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia flows abroad and Slovenia has nothing to do with it. My opinion is that if this law is not supported for any reason or for any other reason, then changes in this area will really be introduced in order to prevent the flow of money abroad and to prevent the leakage, the reduction of funds for the Slovenian budget. Once again, the matter is in the first reading and therefore I really do not see any reason for the opposition to this proposal to oppose the law in this way. I am convinced that, with certain corrections, some suggestions and remarks, the opposition's warnings are likely to be justified, and in the vast majority I think the fear of some and the defence of maintaining a monopoly position is here in particular. But the monopoly does not seem to be an optimal situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž the German, prepare to be Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Today we are opening up a topic that at first sight does not work for at least most people. But what's it gonna be like, how important is this topic? In fact, not only the content that we are dealing with directly, it is a matter of decisions that will have a fatal impact not only on individuals who like Gambling or who use the possibility of playing gambling, both classical and special, but also directly on the financing of sport and disabled organisations. The creation of the document – when we were informed months ago that the first document, which is virtually no longer similar to the document we are considering in the National Assembly – raises some legitimate doubts about the work of the government, the ministry and, consequently, the SDS party. For practically all relevant gambling organisations and those directly recipients of the money in this title have made themselves clear and loud. It seems a complete nonsense to propose a law that so directly harms everyone involved, as is fully evident from the letters of all those who have visited us in the sent groups and who have written to us. We will find several anomalies and specialities for our Slovenian space. We have a relatively limited market for both special and classical gambling. At least in special cases, we are a little more dependent on abroad, while, as far as classical is concerned, we are essentially very limited to the two millionths market. Even when products such as the Slovenian lottery, the Lottery of Slovenia, imported, talked about Super Lot or Vikinglott in the past appeared, it was possible through analysis to understand that the market did not grow, but it simply redistributed the course of the players. So one who once played only in the Lottery of Slovenia today may be playing in some Scandinavian-Slovenian string that designed Vikinglotto or any other offer. It is amazing how direct the adoption of employees’ rights when we are talking about gambling would have an impact. I come from Nova Gorica, Slovenia's Las Vegas, where we practically grew up in gambling, not only with his positive wages, but also with negative ones. There's been a lot of positive results. I'm talking about the gold of the '90s, even later, when Hit was actually the biggest casino player, it was relatively great to return to the local community, not only in the form of concessions, but in fact by sponsoring culture, sport and everything that comes along. Progress was remarkable back then. On the other hand, there are also negative consequences, resulting in the opening of a clinic to separate from gambling. In this sense, too, Nova Gorica is a center that we cannot pass through. Enriched with experience of both special and classical gambling, I can point out with full awareness that this liberalisation will directly harm not only the social aspect but also the health aspect and the financial aspect. Therefore, all three key wages, which should be covered by the responsible state as a specific type of economic sector, will in fact be rounded and weakened. Why do I say that? Because experience teaches us. In Slovenia, there are no longer conditions for opening the market in such a way that the country does not lose control of what is happening. New bidders. Excuse me, I see paragraph 52 – which of the providers, when we talk about classical gambling, is willing to offer half a million to actually compete with everyone else for a relatively small market? We open up some non-competitiveness for tenderers, which weakens mainly Slovenian disabled people on the one hand and Slovenian sport on the other. It is about opening up a range of aggressive advertising opportunities, because providers will be forced to be significantly more aggressive for a relatively small market, not to mention lower quotas and also contributions which then return to sport, culture or, if you like, disability organisations. What is particularly in sight and what is heard from the voice of Nova Gorica is that this decision directly taxes the tips that have so far been considered one of the main revenue actually attached to the salary and has been treated as such. So far we have actually taxed tips only once, and this bill will do so twice. Even so, because of the situation, not only because of the economic crisis of 10 and more years ago, but mainly because of co-vido and the overall economic situation, which is in fact around 400 kilometers where daily migrants or players, daily migrants using our casinos, are essentially placed in a position where our workers will be impoverished for concrete profits mainly from additional taxation. In 60 cases, the European Courts found that regulation, i.e. preventing markets from opening up, and restricting them to monopolies, dupoles in this case, is beneficial and urgent in this economic sector. That's what everybody's doing. Someone in front of me was discussing that there is virtually no country where this would be limited. That's not true. In fact, we know most of the countries of the European Union, starting with Spain and Lithuania, which regulate this. As has already been said, the 60 judgments of the European courts have made this clear. This is not an ordinary industry, it is not a sector where transactions under the table and, in fact, without analysis, they prepare such laws or without analysis as has happened in this mandate, they grant concessions. I am specifically talking about the case in Goriška. In doing so, it is the impression that the ground is being prepared for one major bidder. Why? It extends to the whole area of the gambling law, both classical and special, for a prepared one space, see it, a fraction, for one and only Austrian provider, who hears the name Novomatic. That's what you have to say in order to hear it. It is not wrong for the tenderer to come to Slovenia in the sense that he would recapitalise an important company and participate in growth. But we know it's not because it's too selectively prepared for this law to open up the space, and it's not hard to prove to one of the bidders who bears the name that I said before. The consequences of such liberalisation for players can be severe. As has already been said, I come from an area where colleagues, friends, comrades, teammates have often found themselves in a whirlpool of addiction caused by gambling. This should be a habit of living. Any lack of regulation in this area can be fatal. How could we imagine Slovenia, for comparison, as we could see in the Western Balkan countries or in the Czech Republic, which is an example where they liberalized access and are practically so-called betting stations, better known to Slovenians as casinos, around the corner where they offer a wide range of all forms of gambling without any regulation? We have a substantial amount of addiction, believe me, I come from Nova Gorica and I know what I'm talking about. I am talking about the fact that in this way it is significantly more affected by health care, i.e. health care, and the social part that I do not say what happens when relationships break down or families break down because of the pressures that come from this sector. Of course, this industry is extremely important. The hit is for Novo Gorica and for Goriška the first and greatest employer, so believe me, everything we say and everything we study at the expense of this law is done in terms of the experience we have created in our environment in the last 30 years of this company's existence. Not on my account. I have the opportunity to speak with representatives of trade unions and with representatives of workers, with management staff, while we have grown up in this company and we know what consequences this liberalisation would have for players and, of course, for the whole society as such. In fact, it is an impression that we are opening Pandora's box with reckless, hand-to-hand work, for which we will pay substantially more than we will get from this opportunity. Whoever thinks that the cake will increase and that any of it will have more – perhaps only the company will be directly involved in our offer and actually prevent those good, healthy companies that are regulated in a way that is to pay back to society, all side effects or most of them will be returned in a way that is primarily to disabled organisations and, of course, to Slovenian sport. I appeal, much has been said, and I no longer have time to really imagine what we are doing with this proposal. I'm talking to you as someone who's lived this whole youth and is aware of all the positive and negative events that happen because of gambling. Playing is an interesting industry, but state control and restraint are needed, not liberalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. As the last reported gets the word Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a good day! The common denominator of all the challenges that at least the opposition Members have put forward in this debate, as well as in the final stage of the ministry and the coalition, is deregulation. I will not go around, at first I will focus on three things that seem problematic to me, and I will also justify why in the Group of the Left we will not support this even in the first reading. First. Deregulation is the most fruitful tool for the future, once it happens, privatisation. If we have companies doing good, whether in the municipality or in state ownership, there is no need to complicate it with privatisation. Unless, of course, there are personal connections or personal interests here. What is the experience with privatised companies once owned by the state? I think we can write a very long list of failed privatisation projects in Slovenia. The last one, possibly the most painful one, must all remember, is the case of Adria, which was first invested in 85 million, then sold to a company that weighs 25 thousand euros, for a hundred thousand euros, which is a ridiculous number, and with recapitalisation she donated three and a few million euros and so on and so on. Not to mention the social hardships that resulted in the neglect of employees in Adria. This is just one example of a rapid four-digit number of companies that we have seen in one way or another in the last 30 years through the privatisation process. The second problem, the second problem of the present bill, which has already hit out several times today in the debate, is the problem of disabled and disabled organisations. What in God's name does this government have such a problem with the disabled and the poor? We are two, three days now here, respected minister, considering proposals that were not within your department's jurisdiction and the law on debarcation, the law on long-term care, the law on personal assistance – always a problem in financing disabled people. All we do in the opposition is just read the calls of the Union of Blind and Disabled Associations, the Society of Distrophysics, the Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, the Council for Disabled People and so on and so on. And now FIHO, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, comes with a call, comes with an analysis of what the legal changes in this law bring in their funding, something you should do at the Ministry yourself, and you are not. And they say, "Hey, 30% of the funding of disability and humanitarian gambling organisations will fall!" And the Ministry is quiet. The question remains: what do you have at the Ministry against the disabled and the poor? Even the argument, hey, if we have five concessionaires or if there are five active titles here, it will not change in any way in the area of financing disabled and humanitarian organisations – it is not true! If there are five players on the market, this means more competition on the market, this automatically means, by market logic, greater funds for profits, because these players on the market will compete among themselves, that is understandable. And when we have larger funds on the market, it is understood that the difference between income and expenditure is smaller. This difference is then the basis for the calculation of the amount of the disability and humanitarian benefit. This is this very simple elementary school math that you failed to understand at the Ministry, obviously. The last thing is the problem of deregulation of an area when we talk about addiction. Addiction is, my predecessor has already stressed something that is a constant in gambling that we obviously cannot avoid. It leads to a number of problematic personal and social practices, crimes, debts, family tragedies, and I have talked about suicides in the first place. Social damage here is purely financially measurable if addiction is to be treated. The result of deregulation of this area in this part is completely financial. Here I am pleased that MEPs and Members of the New Slovenia have in the past shown some obedience to social steps at this point, i.e. treatment of addiction or addiction, and I expected them to be more consistent with their own principles. Dear Minister, in the area of privatisation, the solutions proposed by this law are a measurablely bad idea, in the field of persons with disabilities, the worst, civilisation, moral, and also financially at all levels, totally controversial, not to mention the personal and social aspects of what such deregulation means in the field of addiction and social influence and treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor if that is what he wants. He doesn't want to. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 26, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. Ten. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. The 62nd meeting of the Committee on Finance and the 55th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be held 15 minutes after the adjournment of today's meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby adjourn the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday 25 October at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended 22.) OCTOBER 2021 AT 13.48.)
