ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-03-SDZ8-Izredna-58.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They shall be informed that the following Members and Members may not attend today's meeting: Mag. Carmen Furman, Susanna Lepi Šimenko, Ferenc Horváth, Felice Žiža, Samo Bevk, Jani Möderndorfer and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. I invited a representative of the State Election Commission, a candidate for the Magi. Alenko Bratušek and representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today on 3 February 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERFORMANCE OF THE MANATOM OF THE TEAM TO REFERENCE THE MENDER WHO GAVE HIM THE MANDAT. Since the term of office of France Kramar was terminated pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Members for the purpose of death, the State Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a decision establishing that the right to act as a Member for the remainder of the term of office would be magnified. Alenko Bratusek. The conclusions were addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The mandate of the Members of the Magi shall be confirmed. Alenki Bratušek, born March 31, 1970, residing on Prisjejna Street 1, Kranj. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I wish my fellow Member to carry out the work of the Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
