ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Maša Kociper from 13.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Dr. Franc Runk by 3 p.m., mag. Bojana Muršič, Predrag Baković by 2 p.m., Soniboj Knezak by 2 p.m., Matjaž Han by 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 30. Agenda item — Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services. At its 26th extraordinary meeting on 16 July 2021, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Audiovisual Media Services. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council of Branimir Struklu.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As you know, the Council of State has adopted a veto on the law, which should otherwise implement the Directive of the European Parliament on audiovisual media services, namely the amendment of this Directive in 2018. The key purpose of this Directive was to regulate the unrestrained position of European audiovisual media service providers on demand compared to major out-of- Member States providers. As you know, Netflix has consistently appeared as a synonym for this inequality, which has pushed European suppliers into a worse position. This is why we are also talking about Netflix tax or Netflix tax, which does not apply to classical linear providers or television programs, which is extremely important. The EU Directive has committed Member States to provide audiovisual media service providers with an obligation to provide at least 30% of European works in their categories on request. However, the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which was adopted, provides that all providers of audiovisual works are not only providers on request, as was the primary purpose of the Directive of the European Union. The amended Directive of the European Union does not introduce new programme or other obligations for broadcasters, but only for broadcasters on demand. With regard to the obligations of European production quotas, the Directive should apply exclusively to audiovisual media service providers on demand, but only in that part or for those providers who do not provide European quotas or do not provide them in the prescribed proportion. The draft law also contained this in the original version, which was logical, as it stipulated that direct investment in the development of the scenario, recording of European visual work, direct investment in reconstruction and the restaurant of older European audiovisual works were taken into account as a contribution. This then disappeared from the law in this process of adoption, which was the essence of implementing this European directive. The new legislation only means an additional disproportionate decision by Slovenian publishers and audiovisual media service providers, meaning discriminatory or unequal treatment. If the law regulates different situations equally, this is a matter of discrimination or inequality. The adoption of the law is only a covert taxation of Slovenian publishers and audiovisual media service providers because it places them in a subordinate position compared to foreign audiovisual media service providers who only generate revenues on the Slovenian market and do not invest or pay any taxes on audiovisual production. Thus, the Council of State in some way decided that the National Assembly should reconsider this law and reconsider its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to President Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! At its 39th urgent meeting, the Committee on Culture considered the request of the State Council to re-decision the National Assembly on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration on a regular basis by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted by the National Assembly at its 24th regular meeting. The Committee was informed of the request of the Council of State for re-decision, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government on the request of the Council of State for re-decision. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the Council of State explained the request of the Council of State for re-decision. He stressed that the State Council had largely followed the experts' warnings that domestic audiovisual service providers were in a highly deprived position vis-à-vis foreign audiovisual service providers. The law disregards the fact that, unlike foreign suppliers, domestic suppliers invest heavily in domestic audiovisual production. Instead of being a relief, they are punished in the form of 6 % of the contribution. The law also vaguely defines the contribution to the development of European audiovisual works. There are no clear criteria for how and how funds will be spent. The powers and powers of the Ministry of Culture in this regard are not clearly defined and are too great. The Council of State calls on the National Assembly to re-examine the law and remedy its shortcomings. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the lack of clarity on the arrangements for the development of European audiovisual works had warned, in her written opinion, in the process of adopting the law, but the amendments that would amend the provisions in this regard were not proposed in the legislative procedure. The explanation of the re-decision requirement mainly stems from warnings related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation. Since these issues are of a substantive nature, they go beyond the scope of the SPS's tasks and therefore the SPS has not been identified. The representative of the Government presented a written opinion in which the Government of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act in the re-decision. In a short discussion, the opposition reiterated the shortcomings of the draft law, which had already been presented by the professional public and representatives of the opposition in the second reading. The law is flawed and meaningfully incomplete. It is unclear what the competences of Akosa and the Ministry of Culture are, does not eliminate the shortcomings of the previous law regarding the definition of audiovisual works and puts Slovenian audiovisual production in a subordinate position. Commitments should provide greater clarity on how to ensure adequate visibility and accessibility. It is unacceptable to establish a new Fund, the European Audiovisual Production Fund, which will be the budgetary user under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture, by law. The definition of the contribution to the development of audiovisual works is also unclear. By law, the Ministry of Culture destroys those who work in the field of audiovisual services in Slovenia. As an argument of power, however, the Ministry cites the payment of a penalty of EUR 700 000 if the law or this directive is not adopted. It has been pointed out that all governments have so far failed to tax foreign providers offering audiovisual services on request in the Slovenian space. Following the discussion, the Committee, by a majority of the votes of all members, adopted an opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Friedl Jarc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! How nice to meet you! Allow me to present the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services. The law transposes the European Union Directive on audiovisual media services into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive amends the 2010 Directive and the subsequent 2011 ZAVMS, so we are simply amending the existing law and not adopting a new one. Let us highlight some of the points in the adopted law before the re-voting. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services may also act against providers of audiovisual media services and operators not established in Slovenia. The obligation of audiovisual media service providers to gradually and continuously improve accessibility to their services for persons with disabilities is introduced. More protection for children against harmful content in the online world, increasing obligations to promote Europeans, we stress here that when implementing the European Directive we need to talk about European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least 30% of European works in their catalogue. A fund for the production of audiovisual works is being established, to which all audiovisual media service providers based in Slovenia and abroad will contribute. There are also certain rules for audiovisual media services on video exchange platforms such as Youtube and audiovisual content shared through social media such as Facebook. The law imposes the payment of an annual contribution to the development of European audiovisual works of 6 % of the gross annual income generated in the Republic of Slovenia, which is owed to the budget fund by all audiovisual media service providers, both domestic and foreign. The EU Directive makes it clear that financial contributions can be introduced for foreign media service providers only on condition that they are domestic. The Fund is designed in accordance with the public interest in culture, with a view to promoting the production of audiovisual works that will be broadcast to our Slovenian viewers, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive and with public financial rules and at the same time with quality products, we will obtain audiovisual service providers that will be able to play and market them. The criteria for the use of funds from the Fund are specified. They can be intended for, i.e., the promotion of creativity in the film and audiovisual fields, the creation of appropriate conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activities, and for the development and education of film and audiovisual activities. It is not possible to fulfil obligations in the form of direct investment in production and purchase of licensing rights, since it has not proved to be optimal and appropriate. The giants would easily prove their investment in European AV works production, while the domestic bidders who do not invest so much would be left with only the possibility of cash payments. And with too little scope, the fund would lose its purpose. Let me finish. The Government shall summarise the procedure for the drafting and transposition of the Directive as follows. We did the transfer process as soon as we got to work. The former governments have not dealt with this. We have further carried out, carried out all the regular and democratic procedures required for the adoption of legislative acts, including a two-month public debate. The government sent the bill to the National Assembly on a regular basis, the law was dealt with in three readings and was adopted by 46 votes in favour and 28. In the event of a non-admission of the law or of an irregular transposition of the directive, Slovenia is facing a penalty. Individual companies have actively lobbyed for their partial interests and the government's solution is in line with the interest and appropriate transposition of the EU Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Audiovisual Media Services Act transposes the content of the Directive on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the management of audiovisual media services into the Slovenian legal order. We know that the rapid technological development in recent years has allowed for new types of services and user experience. The changed habits of the younger generation in particular are not of negligible importance, as they have enabled the rapid expansion of transmission devices for viewing audiovisual content. New patterns, offers, habits and trends represent content created by users themselves. Users also become providers of video content at the same time with a request and platforms for the exchange of these same content or products. In all of this, we must not forget the maximum protection of children against harmful content offered online. All these challenges and trends are met by the law that we are re-declaring today. The law retains the existing obligation to ensure the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other Member States of the European Union. The existing prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance is adequately supplemented by stressing the prohibition of promoting national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, as well as the protection of terrorist acts and the challenge of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance with audiovisual media services. The law also contains measures for the protection of children used for broadcasting services. These measures will also have to apply to audiovisual media services on request. The most harmful content that could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children, but not necessarily a crime, must be subject to the strictest measures, such as encryption and effective tools for parental control without prejudice to the ability of Member States to take more stringent measures. This is a set of content that is of exceptional importance to our Group of Members. More important solutions to the law in question must also include the obligation to gradually improve accessibility to audiovisual media services for persons with disabilities. However, the solution introduced by the contribution to the development of European audiovisual works was more recent, according to which, following the addition adopted on the home committee, audiovisual media service providers should contribute 6% of the gross annual income generated in the Republic of Slovenia to the budget fund each year. It is a fund for European audiovisual production, which will be established if the law under consideration receives adequate support and aims to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields, to create appropriate conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activities, and to develop and educate in relation to film and audiovisual activities. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act will be again supported by the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, fellow Member and Members of Parliament! We have before us a re-decision on the law, which we have already denied in the SAB Group, despite the fact that it brings many good solutions and is worth welcoming in many ways. But more than many times before, all of this has ruined the fact that the government is also, in principle, involved in quality and innocuous laws with the solutions that overshadow those who are good. Article 18, which has also led to the veto of the State Council, has been a stumbling block and a debate throughout the legislative process. With this article, the Ministry has incorporated in the law a proposal from the Fund for the Development of European Audiovisual Works, which is fundamentally not in breach of the Directive transposing the law into the Slovenian legal order. And then it started to get complicated. First, the Ministry of Fund Supervisors has determined itself. Although the provision later withdrew and adjusted, it again proved to be an effort to shape everything by its rules and to bring matters into order so that they could run in line with its agendas and objectives. The next problem is that, in our view, the Ministry has inappropriately summarized the directive and unfairly and extensively taxed Slovenian suppliers. We have already noted this at the time of the regular legislative process, when, in our second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, together with the LMŠ groups of Members and unrelated Members, we have tabled an amendment which, in our view, would regulate this issue more appropriately in the light of the directive. In particular, I would also like to highlight the fact that different stakeholders have been alerted and which is extremely important in the light of the promotion of European audiovisual works. In foreign countries, providers may choose between direct investment in production or investment in funds or schemes for the financing of films. So financial contributions are not an inevitable fact, but merely a result of the lack of the required percentage. In this way, providers are encouraged to invest in the production of European audiovisual works. The Slovenian law does not allow this, but this option, interestingly, was foreseen in its original version. If the Ministry's main interest is indeed the development of European audiovisual works, what has this option deleted? The arguments put forward by the Ministry regarding this article have not convinced us, and this time we will also vote against the bill or the view that the law is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everybody! Given the popularity and growth of various audiovisual service providers, we need to respond appropriately to legislative changes in Slovenia. Although the proposed amendment has not addressed all the open issues yet, we must stress the need to comply with the acquis of the European Union and to protect the users of the platforms more. In particular, in protecting users, we must stress that, due to simplified access to these content through applications on smartphones, we have access to all offers anywhere and at any time. However, since many minors and children have access to the content, we must pay particular attention to this. Their security must be particularly important to us in times of internet trends. In the future, there will be other changes to which we will also have to address the so-called Netflix tax. In the final stage, this will potentially result in higher costs for users' subscription. But we still have to step in time. Digital services have experienced faster development than we expected. If they agreed 30 years ago that we will never carry a calculator in our pocket, we have devices today that are as powerful as a personal computer and we always have them on us. Therefore, we need to start talking more specifically, including in the direction of additional taxation of social networks services and other platforms that develop in parallel with the development of technology. In the Desus Group, we believe that all open questions need to be addressed more specifically. We will have to discuss the preparation of a system law that will be in line with the European Union. In the re-voting of the law, Members Desus will not be united and we will take our final decision after presenting our views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representative of the Council of State, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! At the request of the Council of State, the National Assembly will again decide on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its regular meeting in July this year. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Bill, as at the July session, we will not now support or vote against its adoption. In the parliamentary group, we are aware of the consequences that follow if the bill is not adopted, but we note that the Government or the competent Ministry of Culture is solely responsible for possible negative consequences in the form of penalties imposed on us by the EU court due to the irregular transposition of the European Directive from 2018. The government was waiting until March this year by the introduction of a new law, although it was prepared last autumn. Members of the ruling coalition, however, refused to listen to our warnings or comments and rejected the proposed amendments. It seems absurd to us in the parliamentary group that the government coalition has rejected our proposals for amendments that followed exactly the said directive, which, given the obligation of European production quotas, should be implemented exclusively for audiovisual media service providers on request or so-called VOD services, with only those that do not provide or do not provide European quotas as a financial obligation or contribution to this fund. We do not oppose the introduction of the above-mentioned levy and payments into a special fund with which the Republic of Slovenia would co-finance the production of Slovenian audiovisual works. We oppose the solutions taken because they are also burdened unfairly or discriminatingly by domestic broadcasters and VOD services. The EU Directive aims to reduce the unequal situation of domestic and foreign providers and allows EU Member States to provide foreign VOD providers, such as Netflix, Amazon, HBO, Apple and others, with an obligation to return to the market some of the revenues generated in Slovenia, where they offer their audiovisual content on request and do not have a seat here, and thereby support our domestic Slovenian production. In no way can we agree to the argument of the Ministry of Culture, which, in its opinion on the veto of the State Council, has fully explained that, in order to increase the duties and extend the debtors to Slovenian suppliers, it has also been because, I quote: “We could not expect any substantial payments to the European Audiovisual Production Fund, which would thus become a dead letter on paper and not achieve its purpose.” [[…]] End of quote. It's a statement in the style of famous Superhik from the Alan Ford comic book that he took from the poor and gave to the rich. The Ministry of Culture has decided, because it is not able to take advantage of wealthy and multinational corporations such as Netflix, Amazon, HBO, Apple and similar, to impoverish Slovenian suppliers. That the absurdity is even greater, the Ministry of Culture will, of course, return these funds to them first, only if they are decent and obedient. This law repeats the story of the Media Bill of the previous summer. All powers related to the establishment, management, control and allocation of funds from the European Audiovisual Production Fund are undefined and transferred to the Ministry, which will decide on this on the basis of sub-legislative acts, which, without legal frameworks, will be fully arbitrarily designed and implemented by the current Minister of Culture. Coalition Members are reminded that both Slovenian television and cable operators do not have enough reserves in place to cover such high charges. Therefore, the obligation imposed by law will be placed on the contracting authorities, or the monthly subscription will be increased for Telekom, Telemach, T2 subscribers. However, the increase in the RTV contribution is opposed. Let him who can understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u16	Good day to all in the hall! With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we have also agreed to respect what the European Union will impose or impose on us. If anything, in these years we have only found that we are a very interesting and different country than most other members. Most European directives and resolutions are difficult to implement in Slovenia's legal order, and it is even harder to make them friendly to our people. There is no exception to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act. The proposal is intended to transpose the EU Directive on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services in Slovenia in view of the changing market situation. Some important issues are also being addressed concerning the possibility of developing Slovenian audiovisual production as an integral part of European audiovisual production. At the same time, we must not forget to point out that the idea of a directive itself was created solely and solely for Netflix to be plagued in the European area. At the same time, it would be difficult to find those involved in this law who would agree with it and who would be fully satisfied with what was written. More than stakeholders, they are important citizens. Therefore, the only question that matters in this law is how much it will hit the pockets of taxpayers or viewers. In particular, it is clear that if suppliers and producers and media outlets are to have expenses, someone will have to pay them. It is naive to believe that these new costs will be borne by themselves — all of us, the viewers, will cover them. Certain parties in this Chamber like to point out how many thousands of Slovenians and Slovenes live below the poverty threshold, and that is exactly the proportion that is close to them, and each euro comes in handy for all of them. In the Slovenian National Party, we will be happy to support all the laws that will benefit the Slovenian people. However, we will oppose all those laws that will put our citizens in a worse position or even discriminate against them, regardless of who will be the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u18	Nicely greeted! The main objective of the Audiovisual Media Services Act is to harmonise audiovisual media services with the legal order of the EU. The second objective is to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the existing law and to ensure that the legal provisions are even clearer and more specific. The draft law transposes the two directives of the European Union into the Slovenian Order. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive provides a reinforced principle of the country of origin, with clearer rules on the rules applicable to Member States, by harmonised derogation procedures for broadcasters and also for service providers on request, as well as by the possibility of derogation in the event of serious risks to public safety and public health. It also extends certain rules for audiovisual media services to video exchange platforms. The amended Directive covers services such as YouTube and audiovisual content shared through social networks such as Facebook. It also provides greater protection for children against harmful content in the online world, stricter provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection against terrorist offences in television programmes. The law increases the obligation to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least a 30% share of European works in its catalogue and ensure that these works are put at the forefront. The law also provides greater flexibility in television advertising, and provisions on the protection of children against inappropriate audiovisual commercial messages for foods with high fat, salt, sodium and sugar, including the promotion of codes of conduct at EU level where necessary. The law also provides the Fund for European Audiovisual Production, whose resources will be raised to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields for film and cinema and education in the areas mentioned above. The Committee also presented its opinions and views to representatives of the profession and the various organisations who assessed that the government proposal is largely correct and correctly implements the EU Directive. The Ministry of Culture has also taken into account some comments made in the public debate. We have also taken into account the proposal of an unrelated member of Rajić and raised the contribution of 2%, such as the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, to 6%. However, after the adoption of the Law in the National Assembly, the Council of State voted veto to the law. Since the law implements two EU directives and brings a lot of news, which we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular the fund from which we will draw funds to encourage Slovenian film, we will once again support the Audiovisual Media Services Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! On the question of how to tax AV service providers, much has been said already in July 2020, when a public hearing was held regarding the novel under consideration today. At that time, comments were made by all visible stakeholders who still express dissatisfaction with that proposal. Of course, it has been enough time for the Ministry to draw up a sufficiently appropriate proposal and this directive has also been less chaotic in the Slovenian legal order, since most of the proposed solutions, in our opinion, are relevant and useful. In fact, the government's approach to establishing a European Audiovisual Production Fund is unusual and professionally questionable. And that's also the problem with this marriage. Of course, all of this was recognized by the State Council, which therefore voted veto. The area of protection of disabled persons and children, which is good in this law, can be described as something very good and, in fact, we have paid the highest attention to it in the LMŠ. Although the proposal does not fully provide for measures of accessibility to information and communication resources to be provided to persons with disabilities either by public or private mass media, including television and the Internet, we recognise in the LMS that this proposal is a step in the right direction towards higher standards of accessibility for persons with disabilities to AV media services. That is why, with the amendment of the proposal and the amendment of the National Assembly, we have further improved the proposal for a law and transposed the content that sets out both the implementation and the procedures for the implementation of measures to raise access standards for AV media content for persons with disabilities. And that's, like, good. However, public treatment was clearly merely a public spectacle, with the fact that it took place at the time of leave. The Ministry could already take an example of France, which has clearly followed the idea of protecting domestic AV service providers in the transposition of the directive. If at least a little effort was made to take into account the opinion of the public concerned, then we would not have received part of the rerun of the event at the beginning of last summer when there was a unilateral more or less ideological attempt to interpret the media law. This time, too, they wanted to set up a fund. It would be established by a ministry that would manage it and, as it is of course suitable for this government, it would also be supervised. The last jurisdiction then ended the coalition with the amendment, however, as after the intervention of the Legal and Legislative Service, the government nevertheless found that the Ministry's control over itself was only too driven by sound intelligence and sound democratic institutional action in that country. In LMŠ, we advocated that the Fund be managed by the Slovenian Film Centre, as is generally the case abroad within the framework of national film agencies, but it has also been identified negatively because it is a matter of state budget resources. And if the current government were to overcome political wisdom and will, it would also prepare the law and thus propose it. Of course, the Government or the Ministry of Culture, as has been seen several times in this mandate, wanted to have full control of the funds of the Fund and to whom it will also be directed. Clearly, the desire for full control of the fund was so great that it neglected the possibility of a directive to protect the domestic AV media service provider. After the law was no longer able to be corrected, the proposaler resorted to threats due to a nine-month delay, saying that we would pay the fines, which is true, but write the guilt down only to yourself and only to yourself. In LMŠ, together with a group of unrelated Members with an amendment to the DZ law, we proposed a more reasonable tax burden only for AV service providers on request, so that the law could be made more acceptable and in line with the directive and with the comments of the interested public. So what the proposaler did not do, we wanted to protect Slovenian or European providers who offer a greater share of European AV content in their programmes and also pay taxes in the EU. We wanted the contribution mainly to burden foreign global providers who generate revenues in individual Member States and who are established outside the EU. As it is said, we do not share in the LMŠ the opinion of the RS Government that the law is good, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! That the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act was inadequate and even harmful, they were also recognized in the State Council, so they sent a request to the National Assembly with a detailed explanation to re-vote the proposed law. The area of audiovisual services, as we have already said, is a wide and complex area which is uniformly regulated in EU Member States on the basis of the adopted Directives. However, the proposed amendment to the law does not follow the very purpose of the directive, even though the proposaler emphasises this particular harmonisation. That the proposed legal solution cannot be compared with solutions in other EU Member States, it has already been highlighted in the broader public debate as well as in the previous hearings in the National Assembly. There is no clear distinction between the competences of Akosa on the one hand and the Ministry of Culture on the other. Many Ministry of Culture even report that it destroys everyone working in the field of audiovisual media services in Slovenia. The proposal for the amendment of the law received several comments by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which could not be completely eliminated by the proposed and adopted amendments to the Committee or by the assembly. Moreover, the Government did not want to take any further comments. Social Democrats, respectable, we will follow our previous decision in re-decision that the government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act is not appropriate and that is why we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Prior to the summer of the 24th regular session, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which was followed by the State Council in response to this request that the Assembly decide again on this law. The mother's working body, which is the Committee on Culture, voted days ago that the law was not appropriate. The Left supports the request of the State Council to re-examine the law. We have not previously supported the proposal in the Left Group. The comments of the ZPS were numerous, affecting virtually all articles but were not consistently taken into account in the amendments of the coalition. In many respects, marriage is flawed and meaningful. The competence of Akosa from the Ministry of Culture is not clearly separated, and the Ministry of Culture is at the same time acting as the administrator and supervisor, which is legally unacceptable. In particular, we note the unequal treatment of audiovisual media service providers established in the Republic of Slovenia and foreign providers, i.e. those marketed in the Slovenian language, as well as foreign service providers marketed in the foreign language, with foreign providers taking precedence. The law interferes with the powers of two bodies – the Communications Networks and Services Agency, Akos, which under the applicable Audiovisual Media Services Act is responsible for the supervision of the law, and the Ministry of Culture, which appears to manage the new fund. Addictive. The law does not address the key shortcomings of the previous applicable law regarding the definition of European audiovisual works. The Association of Frontier Professional Associations of Slovenian Film Creators proposed to complement the definition by aligning it with the definition of Slovenian audiovisual works and allowing production and display of audiovisual works such as films, sequels, shorts, documentaries and animated films. In order to improve implementation, the content elements of the audiovisual work, including the definition of content excluded from the broadcasting time, should be clearly defined. Behind the law, which at first sight looks highly professional and technical, and the reasons to oppose it in Levica, is simple logic. In the world of exponentially increasing numbers of audiovisual works and providers who distribute these works to users, we need to make sure that their creators enjoy the deserved fruits of their work and that this way the creation of Slovenian and European creators will be fully protected. As it is said, this goal is not achieved by law, so this time we will oppose it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the NSI Group. Tadéj Šuštar Zalar, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Today we are again deciding on amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Act. The Council of State has adopted a request for re-decision on the law. The law harmonises the regulation of audiovisual media services with the EU acquis and corrects some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the existing law. The law sends a great deal of solutions. It is necessary that media service providers and video platform providers, in cooperation with all stakeholders concerned, promote the development of media literacy in all social layers for citizens of all ages and all media, and that progress in this area is closely monitored. The law prohibits, through audiovisual media services, the promotion of national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, the protection of the service of terrorist acts and the provocation of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance. Programme content shall also be regulated which may harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and minors by establishing an arrangement based on the prior publication of an appropriate acoustic and visual warning, by marking these programme content with an appropriate visual symbol and by placing them in place within the appropriate time frame or by establishing appropriate technical protection. There is also a specific provision for informative programming content, where an appropriate warning or other appropriate warning should be given to the viewers at a reasonable time before they are broadcast. The law provides that audiovisual media service providers should gradually improve access to their services for persons with disabilities and report on the implementation of this obligation to the Agency every three years, with the first report being forwarded by the end of April 2024 for the past three years. Commitments to promote European works in audiovisual media services are increasing on demand, which must have at least 30% of European works in their catalogue and ensure that these works are put at the forefront. The diversity of opinions is more than just a diversity of information. Even more data does not necessarily mean higher quality and more opinions. Information society is not necessarily a smart society. Therefore, global media must allow access to European national and regional content. The media must not favour certain opinions or unjustifiably repeat them more than others. They must prevent the automatic formulation of opinions and hate speech. Because of the diversity and strong influence of the media, individual professional and social cooperation requires media literacy. People of all generations must learn to manage more data and electronic communication in order to live today. Media literacy and access to a wide range of media offers are particularly important for people with disabilities. The proposal to amend the law pursues these objectives, and that is why the law in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats will be once again supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. This law will be decided again today in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on amendments and amendments to the travel law, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! In Article 34 of the Tolling Act, which was adopted last year, Article 34 provides that tolls of vehicles up to 3 000 500 kilograms of the maximum authorised mass of e-wine shall be carried out with effect from 1 December 2021. In early September 2020, Dars announced an invitation to tender for the selection of the operator to establish and operate an electronic wine tolling system. Within the time limit for the submission of tenders, three tenders were received and two audit applications were submitted to DKOM against Dars’ decision on the selection of the contractor at DKOM, which DKOM decided on May this year. Both audit requests were rejected as unfounded. As a result of the audit requests submitted, there has been a delay in the conclusion of the contract with the selected operator and therefore the electronic blame system cannot be fully established by 1 December of this year. In view of all the activities necessary for the introduction of an electronic vineyard, the selected operator will establish tolling for annual and summer electronic vineyards by 1 December 2021. These are long-term vignettes used in particular by the users of the toll network, taking into account that annual vignettes for 2021 are valid until 31 January of next year, and it is therefore expected that in most cases these users will decide to purchase annual e-vignettes when the annual vignette expires for 2021. In view of the fact that semi-annual vignettes are intended only for motorcycles and that motor bike owners generally decide to purchase them in the spring months, it is not expected to be of particular interest for their purchase in the winter months. The selected operator will be able to ensure full control of the electronic vignette system with effect from 1 February 2022, so that tolling with weekly and monthly electronic vignettes will also begin. During the interim period, from 1 December 2021 to 1 February 2022, Dars will issue short-term vignettes in the form of a sticker as it is now. In this way, the control of the occasional users of toll roads, which represent a significant proportion of the revenues of the toll-road operator, can still be carried out in the same way as before. This will prevent the loss of revenues from the toll manager, which could result from misuse due to inadequate control of electronic vignettes. In doing so, it is important that all the wines already or until the entry into force of the tolling with an electronic winch be issued in the form of a label shall be valid until their validity. This means that weekly and monthly vignettes, which will expire after 31 January 2022, when tolling with an electronic weekly and monthly vignette starts, will also apply until their validity expires. They will also be subject to semi-annual and annual wines issued for 2021 until their entry into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Honourable Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 46th emergency meeting. 9. 2021 As a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, proposing that the proposal be considered in accordance with an urgent procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, pointed out that the amendment of the Tolling Act of last year, in Article 34, stipulated that tolls to vehicles of up to 3 000 500 kilograms of the maximum authorised mass by electronic wine should be carried out with effect from 1 December 2021. In early September 2020, Dars launched an invitation to tender for the selection of operators to establish and operate an electronic vineyard. Within the time limit for the submission of tenders, three tenders were received and two audit applications were lodged against Dars’ decision on the selection of the contractor to the State Audit Board, which were decided by the State Audit Commission on 10 May 2021. Both applicants' audit requests were rejected as unfounded. As a result of the audit requests submitted, there has been a delay in the conclusion of a contract with the selected contractor and therefore the electronic vinyl system cannot be fully established within the time limit set by the current law, i.e. 1 December 2021. In the light of all the activities necessary for the introduction of the electronic vineyard, the selected operator will establish annual and semi-annual electronic wine tolls by 1 December 2021. However, the selected operator will only be able to provide a comprehensive and effective electronic vinyl control system with effect from 1 February 2022. Therefore, tolling with a weekly and monthly electronic vignette will also begin. During the interim period, Dars will carry out weekly and monthly vignettes in the form of a sticker, as is currently being done. Mr Dusan Strnad, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, stressed in their presentation that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. He stressed that the Commission has consistently supported the establishment of an electronic vignette system for passenger cars, since such a technologically more modern way of tolling without stopping the users of toll roads is more friendly. Support for the law was expressed in the debate. At the same time, it was pointed out that in Slovenia there is virtually no longer a case of tendering for any major project where there would be no complaint. As a result, the whole process is time-consuming, since it often takes 6 or more months before the decision on the appeal, causing considerable damage to the State also on the basis of budgetary money. In a specific case, even legislation should be amended. The case was raised in neighbouring Austria. Complaints are very rare, but if they occur, the final decision should be within a week. As a result, it was called on the State Audit Commission to try to implement the appeal procedures within a more reasonable time frame. However, Dars and all the other bidders were advised to consult the State Audit Commission on how to prepare the tenders more optimally and precisely, in order to reduce the possibility of complaints. In the debate, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law amending the Act amending the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. The position will be presented by the Magi. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The bill establishing the conditions for electronic tolling was approved in the National Assembly last year. The novel was intended to establish an electronic vinyl system by 1 December 2021. On 4 September 2020, when Dars announced an invitation to tender for the selection of the contractor, many felt that on 1 December 2021 it would come too quickly. Time would be enough in an ideal scenario if things ran smoothly and on a time sheet. But in Slovenia this goes only a few times, and this should be known, predicted and followed by the ministry. Instead, they forgot to include in the time sheet the necessary time to resolve any legal remedies that are entirely legitimately invested against the successful tenderer by those who have a legal basis for this. The fact is that the longevity of the procedures at the expense of the complainants’ complaints is a problem for us. Our party president, too, Mag. During the management of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Alenka Bratušek has repeatedly pointed out that matters in Slovenia in this regard are not adequately regulated. On several occasions, it called for consideration of amendments to public procurement legislation and cited Austria as an example for regulating the legislation governing audit procedures. However, this does not change the fact that disregarding the factors that may trigger the procedure and which are usually naive and irresponsible. So much more, given that the introduction to all of this has already been disputed. During the invitation to tender, Dars changed several times, which certainly is not a good trip or a basis to go without complaints. In general, the selection process excited the public. Remember, the criteria were adapted during the invitation to tender in such a way that SkyToll was finally chosen. We also pointed out doubts about the irregularities in the company's public tendering in the SAB party and, together with the remaining opposition parties, called for an urgent meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. Let's go back to the bill, no matter what. The fact is that the urgent procedure prevents the severely remedial consequences that could result from the repurchase of the State guarantee as a result of Dars’ loss of income. The fact is, too, that with a little more prudence and consideration, we can simply avoid it. We will therefore abstain from voting on the law in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the amendment of the Tolling Act, which was adopted by an excellent traveller on the competent parental committee, i.e. without a vote against. The wine system in the form of a toll sticker for users of vehicles up to 3 000 500 kilograms of the maximum permissible mass has been introduced following the example of some neighbouring countries as of 1 July 2008. The new Tolling Act, adopted in October last year in the National Assembly, took a step forward in the direction of modernisation and digitisation in this area, as we supported the introduction of electronic tolling and, in Article 34, wrote 1 December 2021 as the cut-off date for tolling vehicles up to 3 thousand 500 kilograms of the maximum authorised mass by electronic wine. In the Desus Group, with the support of the novel of the Tolling Act, we have recognised the importance of supporting solutions that step forward in this increasingly technologically advanced era and at the same time make life easier for our citizens and citizens. At the same time, however, we firmly believe that the operation and implementation of such important projects and calls, as well as electronic tolling, must be transparent and extremely precise, even though the delay in the start of implementation as it has happened in this case. The competent ministry explained the reasons for the change in the start of electronic tolling with monthly and weekly electronic vignettes on 2 February 2022. Since we all certainly want the system of electronic vineyards to be good, reliable and, above all, adequately controlled when it officially comes to life, solutions need to be adopted to help it. We have already heard initiatives at the Committee on Infrastructure to resolve complaints more quickly, in particular in order to resolve them within a reasonable time. However, it is certainly also an awareness and call for the preparation of calls for transparency and in the light of respect for all marriage obligations. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed bill. However, we call on the competent services and the ministry not to forget the elderly and all those who have limited access to the Internet at the start of electronic tolling, and to provide more clearly with possible additional instructions on how electronic tolling will take place. This is particularly true for the intermediate period when the wine is still available in the form of stickers. For we want the transition to be smooth and understandable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u36	Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! The highly anticipated electronic vignette system for passenger cars in December, as envisaged, will not be fully revived. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that there will be no bad will on the part of our citizens and citizens who have been tired of tearing stickers out of windshield in recent years. We note that the two audit applications submitted have led to a delay of approximately three months in concluding a contract with the selected contractor. This means that short-term weekly or monthly e-vignettes will only be available in February instead of December. They are used in most foreigners, transit drivers who transport Slovenia in one day. We don't understand why we don't have daily vignettes. In the meantime, they'll be able to have stickers on them, which we don't think many will like. We suggest that we at least give them a discount when buying you blame them for at least a little debt. In Slovenia, it is almost a practice to appeal to unelected tenderers. This causes long-term procedures and associated financial consequences or unnecessary damage. We believe that it is good that nothing changes for annual and semi-annual electronic blames and that they will apply until they expire. In the Slovenian National Party, we think it is very important that foreigners pay the toll before they leave our country. We know that recovery is demanding and usually unsuccessful. Following the example of Croatia for motorists, we propose tolerance for a certain amount to which they may exceed the limit in the case of an empty box or box. It seems unacceptable for us to receive thousands of euros in fines in the post office for 11 euros, without prior notice. There will be a lot of checks at checkpoints, highways and border crossings. The question is, do we even have enough of these toll inspectors? We are confident that there will also be a number of abuses in terms of borrowing registration numbers mainly among family members. We are also concerned that some EU Member States do not comply with the European law on cross-border exchange of data on toll-free vehicle owners. It is sad that they do not provide the required information to the other Member States of the European Union. Is it so hard to be connected, mutual? Question. It's obvious. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u38	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The existing tolling law provides for the introduction of electronic tolling for vehicles up to 3,000 500 kilograms or, if I may put it simply, for passenger vehicles with 1. 12th this year. With the novel, which we have on the table today, we are moving the introduction of electronic tolling to 1 February next year. We're all very well aware of what caused the delay these two months. Today, two were exposed in all positions. It is one way to point out that all bidders of public tenders of greater value are to exchange cases of bad practice with the State Audit Commission, so that in the future, if I say so, there is no longer any need to appeal to a well-known Slovenian folklore. Our recommendation is that these cases of bad practice be removed and that these options for a complaint are as low as possible in the future. Furthermore, it is noted that there are unreasonable deadlines for the State Audit Commission to decide on these procedures. Just in the case of a fairly simple tender, the State Audit Commission took four months to decide in this case. This is an unreasonable length of time for this case. That's what the State Commission should decide, I don't know, in ten days. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft law by delay. Above all, we call on both the contracting authority and the State Audit Commission to act more responsibly in the future as regards the implementation of all these public calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u40	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, the rest of the House, welcome! I could read the text, why this marriage, why not this marriage, and I won't because you've all said it so far. The basic law itself has been supported by the Social Democrats because it essentially brings a simpler life in Slovenia. Who's to blame for the delay, we're not gonna be looking for these responsibilities, either, whether it's the Ministry's fault, because it couldn't plan whether the State Audit Commission or anyone else is important. It's just a two-month transfer, so the world won't back up. We will not oppose this law by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will last present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! During last year, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act provides that it shall be adopted by 1. On 12 this year, it shall establish an electronic vignette system for tolling passenger vehicles. Dars, who was in charge of carrying out all the procedures for the introduction of such a tolling method, started the selection procedure on time and received three tenders within the time limit, but the procedure was delayed by 10 May 2021 when the State Audit Commission rejected the audit request due to the audit requests submitted by the two tenderers. Thus, Dars concluded a contract with the collecting contractor to establish a tolling system with an electronic winch almost 3 months later as envisaged. Therefore, the system cannot be fully put in place within a legal time limit. The problem is that the law in force follows 1. 12. 2021 no longer allows the issue of vignettes in the form of stickers, but at the same time not all the conditions for the implementation of an effective tolling system with an electronic winch will be met. Therefore, income from tolling of passenger vehicles, which are an important financial source of Darsa, would have dropped. It is proposed to amend the transitional provisions of the law in such a way as to enable the selected operator to establish a comprehensive and effective electronic vignette control system with effect from 1 February 2021. The annual and semi-annual electronic wine tolling system shall be established as originally envisaged, i.e. from 1. 12. 2021. Traveling with a weekly and monthly electronic vignette starts with 1. 2. 2022. In the meantime, the operator of toll roads will be able to continue issuing weekly and monthly vignettes in the form of stickers. In this way, it will be possible to exercise the same control over the occasional users of the toll network as before, thereby reducing the likelihood of a significant share of Darsa's revenues, according to the applicant. For all these reasons, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12, 13. AND 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on war invalidity, a bill amending the law and supplementing the law on special rights of victims in the war on Slovenia 1991 and a bill supplementing the law on victims of war violence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft laws were tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the draft laws. We don't have it. The draft laws were considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and the disabled as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to President Eva Igrl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will present a joint report, namely to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons, to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of Victims of War for Slovenia 1991 and to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence. At its 32nd regular meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered all three of those laws submitted by the Government to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly has not confirmed the procedure and the Committee has therefore examined the draft laws on a regular basis. The meeting was attended by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, representatives of the Union of Civil Disabled Persons of the War of Slovenia, the Union of War Disabled Persons of Slovenia, the Association of War Disabled Persons and the relatives of the fallen 1991 and the daughter of the daughter who fell into the war for Slovenia. The Committee was also provided with material published on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the legislative proposals in terms of their compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legal technical aspects and made several comments, in particular, to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991. It drew attention to some of the ambiguities of the terms and ambiguities in Articles 2 and 3. The term “compensation” is already used in the existing law for the second special right of victims in the 1991 war for Slovenia. However, the Law-Legal Service had no comments on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence. In the course of the course of business, only amendments were tabled in the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991, which were not adopted by the Committee, there were no amendments elsewhere. However, the Committee adopted its amendment to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on War Disability, which, according to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, follows and repeals the comment of the PSC to Article 1 of the bill. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the proposals of the laws. The Commission estimates that so far, at national level, too little has been done to ensure an adequate level of protection and respect for all those who have lost their loved ones in connection with the 1991 war because the latter have been willing to sacrifice their lives in order to defend our country. The Commission joins the call of the 1991 Association of War Disabled Persons and Owners for the early adoption of the novels and considers that at national level everything possible should be turned around as soon as possible to those individuals who have sacrificed their lives for the defence states at the time of their independence, and consequently to their property for the loss of life, to show an appropriate level of respect. In doing so, the Commission is disappointed that, after 30 years of the self-serving war, the representatives of the victims of war violence still have to negotiate to ensure the fundamental rights that beneficiaries of this title should have at national level long ago. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence presented the purpose and objectives of the draft laws and stressed that the Government has prepared novels to regulate the issues and rights of war disabled persons in order to extend the period for the status of military disabled persons, to provide legal protection to family members of civilians who have lost their lives due to military aggression, and to define specific rights. The representative of the Association of Civil Disabled Persons of Slovenia pointed out that all categories of disabled persons should be adequately coordinated in the way pensions are coordinated, i.e. according to pension and disability insurance rules, which was in force until 2006. This coordination was completely halted in 2012 with Zujf. By extending the deadline for submission of requests for status, they agree. With regard to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims in the War for Slovenia 1991, however, they insist on the position that all categories of persons with disabilities in the war for the independence of Slovenia are recognised and treated equally. The representative of the Association of War People with Disabilities and the People with Disabilities in 1991 first took up the chronology and circumstances of the adoption of the War Disabled Act, the Special Rights Act of the Victims of War for Slovenia 1991 and the War Violence Victims Act, and stressed that no government has so far been able to correct the mistakes and injustices that occurred at the time of their adoption. In the association, they seek to settle debt to those citizens who have become victims of self-sustainment events. Among other things, legislation in the area of social care for the elderly and the sick of war disabled needs to be re-examined. The representative of the Association of War Disabled Persons of Slovenia said that it is high time to complete the War Disabled Persons Act, in particular in view of the positive evaluation of the contribution of war disabled people to the reading of the country. In this regard, they advocate adequate compensation for military war invalids and the return of Article 78 of the War Disabled Act, which provides that persons with disabilities are to be reconciled in a manner consistent with pensions. In a short discussion, the discussers expressed support for the legislative proposals and stressed the importance of giving these laws a special weight to events 30 years ago. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has drafted amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991, which, in their view, do not break the basic law. Their representative said they would support the bill. A proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disability is therefore prepared. As no amendments were adopted to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Victims of War-based Violence and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991 on the Labour Body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities of the National Assembly proposes that those draft laws be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposals for laws. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Get Jani Ivanush ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Good-bye, everybody! It's never too late. A well-known Slovenian river, but it has not been implemented many times. Another river says it's better late than never. If we had decided on our own country in 1991, it was the right decision. At the same time, we should not forget the sacrifices of the ten - day war and their closest to the world at that time. By conferring rights in exchange for the fact that 19 heart and brave heroes have lost their lives and that the other 182 are still affected by health today and that all of these people still have a bad life on 25 June, the Republic of Slovenia has not really played a role of gratitude for the fact that Slovenia and Slovenians were able to realize our one-hundred-year dream of state sovereignty. We have before us a package of three legislative proposals aimed at correcting or, rather, upgrading special protection and improving the situation for all those who have suffered loss from war events on our soil over 30 years ago. Today, after 30 years, we will restore at least a handful of dignity to those who have hoped for tomorrow's dream for nothing. In the Desus Group, we will be happy, respectful and grateful to confirm all three marriage proposals. All the solutions in them are, in our opinion, appropriate and reflect the appropriate approach of the State in relation to those who, in their lives, have provided it with a separate place on the map and given it an independent and independent name on behalf of it. Reopening the deadline for the recognition of the status of a military and civil war invalid and thus the possibility of exercising the rights listed in the War Disabled Persons Act, such as disability, health care, assistance and service allowance, social security contributions, the possibility of rehabilitation and reimbursement of travel costs and travel discounts, and so on, will be for all those who, for a short period of two years in 1996 and 1997, will, for various reasons related to the health situation and the procedures for obtaining evidence. could not regulate the status and consequently not the rights, given the opportunity to take advantage of this option within a new two-year period. An even more important feature of the country will be the monetary compensation paid to neglected children who have been deprived of growing up in the safe protection of their father's arms and the necessary support at the time of becoming a full and responsible citizen. That an annual meeting of relatives and children who have fallen with the President of the State will not only be intended to make them proud to live in the independent country that their dearest have gathered, today can become that day, after the day that their dreams broke out into nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u48	Once again a nice greeting to all present! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that all three laws are given a special mark for events that took place 30 years ago. The novelty proposals are attractive, beneficial only for the minority, since the war for Slovenia has had very few victims, and for us taxpayers certainly means an additional cost. The positive effects will be felt in the social field, where the sand will improve the financial situation for the beneficiaries and, above all, will receive a kind of recognition. At the time of our country's three decades of independence, it is time for the Republic of Slovenia to pay justly and appropriately to the disabled who have participated in the defence of our country. It's also unclear who the war is. We agree that they have suffered irreparable health problems because of their military duties. A new legal basis for obtaining rights and status as a war invalid or a civilian disabled person of war is expected. It is considered that there are still some open issues that should be resolved as soon as possible in relation to the age of beneficiaries. There is also a new special right to flat-rate compensation for losses in the war for Slovenia in 1991 and for spouses and extra-marital partners who have fallen or their parents. For 100,000 or 50,000 euros or so, they will be able to buy a house, an apartment, a car, and travel. Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that war veterans and victims of war violence are granted special protection in accordance with a law which should have been implemented long ago. It is important to ask what the previous governments have been doing so that the pressing matter has not moved from a dead point. Weeks of war have caused affected families a lot of mental pain, sleepless nights, suffering, and worry about how they will live on. The most affected are children who suffered at the loss of one of their parents, who were deprived daily of his unselfish love, care, and attention that parents can give him. Other victims of war-violence are also expected to obtain health care, medical and climate treatment, travel expenses, life-cycle monthly pensions and so on when fulfilling appropriate legal conditions. We note that this is a specific arrangement and therefore it is not possible to compare the arrangements in other legal systems. We point out that there have been enough cases of poor practices, long-standing neglect of families, machete relations of the country, with which widows have also been confronted when they received a miserable, miserable compensation in the form of the Republic of Slovenia bonds as a payment for the loss of a loved one. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all guests from the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights of Victims in the War for Slovenia 1991 and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence, which has been tabled in the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All these proposals on amendments and additions to these three related laws reflect the ability of the current government to listen to people's pressures and to have a good sense of justice. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that these proposals are good, because in our work we cannot go beyond what our citizens want from us, but especially we must not and do not want to overlook the merit of our independents, that is, veterans of the war on Slovenia, and those of them who have put their lives in war and lost their health and became disabled. Thus, in addition to the War Disability Act, the aim is to enable the status of a war invalid and thereby the rights of persons with disabilities. On the basis of the initiatives taken by veterans of the war on Slovenia and their relatives, it was verified and found that due to the relatively short two-year period following the entry into force of the 1996 Act, some disabled and sick participants in the war on Slovenia failed to obtain the status of a war invalid or a civilian disabled person of war. It is assumed that the long-term procedures of the disability commissions or other causes were at fault, so that some members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia have failed to collect all the necessary certificates and have expired their application deadline. A representative of the Association of War-Disabled Persons and Owners of the Fall 1991 on the parental committee pointed out a week ago that it was sad that no government had so far succeeded or wanted to correct the errors and injustices arising from the 1996 legislation adopted. Well, anyway, better late than never. This is, therefore, today's topic. The proposal for a law now extends or re-establishes this period so that all potential beneficiaries who have been missing can be afforded adequate legal protection. In view of the fact that it was decided at the College of the President of the State Committee that the law should be adopted on a regular basis and not after a reduced procedure, an amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups was also written, providing that beneficiaries and participants in the war on Slovenia who failed to submit applications for invalidity status and did not obtain rights could submit this request by 31 December 2022. The victims of the disease caused by the military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia may also submit requests for the recognition of rights to family members by the end of 2022. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will always act responsibly and we will support this amendment as well. In the light of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Special Rights of Victims Act 1991 for the war on Slovenia, the citizens present and all citizens with the material present cannot be redeemed and never given enough thanks to those men who lost their lives or became disabled in the war on Slovenia in 1991 as members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs bodies. However, this new special right, or compensation, can be one of the expressions of gratitude and respect for the Republic of Slovenia for these persons, for all those who have contributed so much to the destruction that they have put their lives at stake, that we Slovenians have remained. While some beneficiaries have already received compensation for the death of their father, spouse, or partner. The proposed amendment, however, corrects the current lack of regulation and extends the right to compensation to children and recognises all spouses or extramarital partners who have fallen into the war for Slovenia and for parents. This will ensure equal rights for all. The amount of compensation shall be fixed at a flat-rate nominal amount and the deadline for lodging applications shall be 6 months from the entry into force of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also drafted a proposal to amend the Law on Victims of War Violence. The Republic of Slovenia has already regulated two segments of the rights of family members who lost their lives in the war for Slovenia, namely family members of persons who lost their lives in the war for Slovenia in 1991 as members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs authorities, with legal protection under the Special Rights Act of the Victims in the War for Slovenia 1991. In the past, the country has also taken care of those who lost their parents in the war. In order to ensure the same framework of rights, there was a need to provide legal protection for family members of civilians who lost their lives due to military aggression in 1991. Children who have died in war, married couples, who have thus lost a parent or a marriage mate or a family member 30 years ago, will finally receive the legal protection they deserve from the above proposal to supplement the marriage after 30 years. As we have already said, it is better late than never, because in this government and in this coalition we have respect and we overcome our gratitude to the most deserving of our independence and our life in democracy. The range of beneficiaries of legal protection under the Law on Victims of War Violence is thus extended to family members of civilians who have lost their lives because of military aggression. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group welcomes and unanimously supports all three proposals for supplementing and amending the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposed amendments to the laws governing the areas of disabled persons, victims and their relatives in the 1991 war for Slovenia are intended to ensure that the status of a disabled person or the victim of war violence and the rights they propose on the basis of individual laws are exercised. War invalids of the war on Slovenia 1991, who, due to a delay in determining health status or long-term treatment, missed the legal deadline for the implementation of the status and rights of a war invalid, will be able to do so again by the end of 2022. Laws or extra-marital partners, parents and children of the fallen members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs authorities will be further entitled to special flat-rate compensation, while family members by person who has died as a civilian will be killed or possibly missing due to the violent acts of the Yugoslav People's Army or internal affairs bodies of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, entitled to the status of victims of war violence and rights under the War Violence Victims Act. Regarding the proposed changes, the family of five descendants of the civilian victim in the 1991 war for Slovenia, who lost their father in the aggression against Slovenia, turned to our group. The tragic loss of a father at a time when all children were teenagers deeply hurt them and left them with lasting consequences. Very early, they also lost their mother, who died of a serious illness. As a result, we have proposed with the amendment that family members would also fall civilian victims who died as a result of the violent acts of the JLA or internal affairs authorities pending the SFRJ, entitled to flat-rate compensation as foreseen for family members of the fallen members of the Territorial Defence or internal affairs authorities in the 1991 war for Slovenia. The amendment we tabled on the parental committee has unfortunately been rejected by the government coalition. In view of the fact that after 30 years of recognition of the status of the victim of war violence, family members have fallen civilians, we believe that it would be fair for them to be entitled to flat-rate compensation. In relation to the State, they have been neglected for many years, with individual representatives of the State repeatedly promising them to regulate their situation and to grant them rights as victims of war violence. Among them is Janez Janša at her 9th anniversary as Minister of Defence in the government of Andrej Bajuk. It is true that the status of the victim of war violence will also give them the right to war compensation provided for by the special law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, but this compensation is significantly lower than the flat-rate compensation which will be received by the newly-established family members of the fallen members of the Territorial Defence or Internal Affairs Authorities. The war veteran for Slovenia in 1991, who was injured and sustained injuries in military conflicts with JLA, also turned to our parliamentary group. He is also convinced that the war on war on Slovenia in 1991 should receive an appropriate amount of flat-rate compensation, as we have also proposed with the amendment, which was also rejected by the ruling coalition. The 1991 war for Slovenia remains one of the most important periods in our long struggle and efforts for independence and the establishment of a Slovenian state. It is only only right, therefore, that the legal rights granted by the State to war disabled, veterans and victims of the war of the Slovenian self-sustainment war are established in accordance with the principle of justice. This is the only way to give this initial period of our state the right meaning and priceless value. Above all, policy must avoid any possibility of politicising the period of independence and the establishment of the Slovenian State by also informing people whose lives have changed dramatically because of their loss of property or injury in the fight for independent Slovenia that their sacrifice and effort have not been in vain that the state has not forgotten or forgotten them. Despite the fact that our proposals for amendments on the Home Committee have been rejected by the Social Democrats, we will support the proposals for laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. It's been 30 years since the war on Slovenia. With these changes to the laws, we want to return to the families who lost fathers, husbands, sons, dignity in the war on Slovenia and to recognize their sacrifice, which they paid for their own Slovenia. On the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we heard the moving testimony of Mrs Jasmine Molan, who lost her father in the war for Slovenia. Because of the victim, including her father, we now have our own country. They are the foundation of our country. In their right decisions, we could build democracy, we could join NATO, we became full members of the European Union, we took over the euro, and we are now even presiding over the Council of the European Union. For years and years, it was recalled that the victims had been neglected and that the Republic of Slovenia had not recognised the status they were facing because their loved ones had given their lives for their country, although the children had to grow up without a father and the women became widows who had to take care of their own family overnight. We know that there are several single parent families in Slovenia that are single parents for different reasons. But there is no noble cause like giving your life for your friends, for your country. The proposed legal changes, according to Mrs Jasmine Molan, do not open new wounds, but heal open wounds, do not rob anyone of anything, but give great satisfaction to all those who, at the birth of our country or because of it, met the death of their loved ones. The proposed addition of the Special Rights of Victims Act to the 1991 war for Slovenia finally regulates the right to compensation for children who have fallen into the war for Slovenia, amounting to EUR 100,000. In contrast to the current regime, all spouses, extra-marital partners and parents will be recognised in the war on Slovenia after a flat-rate amount of EUR 50,000. We are aware that no compensation can awaken their loved ones, but at least it can provide them with the financial support they lost with their father, husband, or son. After the War Disability Act of 1 / 1 1. The two-year deadline for the submission of applications for recognition of the status and rights of a military or civil war invalid was 1996. In practice, there have been difficulties in proving and obtaining appropriate certificates due to long-term medical procedures or treatment due to illness or worsening of the disease until the initial period of the law, that is, 31. 12. 1997, it's not over yet. Therefore, the amendment of the War on Disabled Persons Act provides for a new deadline of 31 December 2022. Until then, beneficiaries may submit a request for the status and rights of a military war invalid or a civilian invalid of war due to health, disease or disease deterioration due to military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, as well as family members of the person who died as a result of such a disease. However, a new law on victims of war violence recognises the status of the victim of war violence to family members of a civilian who has died, was killed or missing because of violent acts or forced actions by JLA or internal affairs authorities to reach the SFRJ at the time of 24. 5. 1991 to 18. Ten. 1991, at the time of the so-called Beijing events in Maribor and other cases of violent acts that ended with the fatalities. The spouses and parents of these persons will be able to benefit from the conditions laid down for victims of war violence, such as the right to health care, medical treatment and climate treatment, pensions under more favourable conditions, the right to social housing. This year we celebrated 30 years of Slovenian independence on 25 June. At the same time, we also remembered military aggression, the emerging Slovenian state 30 years ago. We have honored the memory of all fallen from their homeland, and their dearest memories of those June days have also reminded them that their fathers, husbands, and sons have not been with them for 30 years. For all of these relatives, it would be at least symbolic if we in the National Assembly thought of them in those June days and had already corrected the injustices by amending the legislation. I am therefore deeply saddened that the opposition parties, on 7 May 2021 at the College of the President of the National Assembly, unanimously rejected the reduced procedure that would allow these amendments to be adopted before the 30th anniversary of our country. I believe that this would mean a great deal to children, marriage mates, and parents. At the time when we remembered the beginnings of our country, we would also have in mind them, sons, daughters, mothers, fathers and wives of all heroes who gave their lives to celebrate the day of state, that the Slovenian National Assembly could even exist. In the NSI Group of Members – Christian Democrats, of course, we will unanimously support all three novels of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you. All in attendance, all in attendance! We all like to say that we are proud of our heritage, even when it comes to the anniversary of independence. This year is already the 30th anniversary and coincides with the consideration of three marriage novels to be decided on in September's plenary. It is important that, by improving the old legislation, we also remind ourselves of the importance of events 30 years ago and of all war disabled, victims of the war for Slovenia and victims of war violence, and ensure fair treatment in existing legislation. The amendment of the War Disability Act extends the time limit for the submission of an application for recognition of the status and rights of a military war invalid or a civil invalid of war on the basis of a disability or deterioration of the disease obtained in the context of a military repression against Slovenia in 1991 and for the application for recognition of rights to family members of a person who died as a result of the disease acquired in those circumstances. As the Government's representatives have already explained to us on the Home Committee, the deadline has proved too short, as there are later difficulties in obtaining the relevant certificates. Long-term medical procedures have encouraged many persons not to submit these requirements within the prescribed legal time limit. The same is true of civilians with disabilities in war. The proposed amendment will also allow these persons to apply the requirement under the War Disability Act. The new deadline for the exercise of justice is 31 December 2022. With the new Law on the Special Rights of Victims in the War for Slovenia, we will allow the exercise of the right to lump sum compensation for children who have fallen into war for Slovenia, spouses and extramarital partners who have fallen and their parents. The State will thus assume a guarantee of a flat-rate compensation amounting to EUR 50 000 or EUR 100 000 for beneficiaries who have not yet received adequate compensation on the basis of international reparations or international agreements or judicial proceedings initiated for the purpose of settlement of property and property damage. However, a new law on victims of war violence recognizes the status of victims of war violence to family members who died as civilians, were killed or possibly missing due to violent acts or forced actions by JLA or internal affairs authorities of the former SFRJ between 24 May 1991 and 18 October 1991. During this period there are also so-called bakery events in Maribor and other cases of violent acts that resulted in the loss of life. We will, of course, support all three novelties in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will be the last to present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! We have before us the so-called Military Troika of Laws, proposals for novels of laws on war disabled persons, on victims of war violence and on the special rights of victims in the war for Slovenia. The government has prepared a proposal to amend the War Disabled Act to address the consequences of the limited deadline for the submission of requests for recognition of the status and rights of a military disabled person or a civilian disabled person. Initially, a two-year period was set for the submission of an application for rights under the law from 1 January 1996 to 31 December 1997. This deadline proved to be too short, as the difficulties in obtaining the relevant certificates later appeared. However, due to lengthy medical procedures, many persons could not submit these requirements within the prescribed legal time limit. The same is true of civilians with disabilities in war. The proposed amendment also allows these persons to apply the requirement under the War Disability Act. In the SAB Group, we welcome the recognition of the eligibility of the starting points and proposals that will enable the status of the disabled to be regulated by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Slovenia who were injured in 1991 during the aggression. The Government also drafted the Special Rights Act of 1991 for the victims of the war for Slovenia. The aim of the proposal is to ensure a new, special right, the right to flat-rate compensation in the amount of EUR 100,000 for children who have fallen into the war for Slovenia and for spouses and extra-marital partners to fall or their parents to the amount of EUR 50,000, which is reduced by possible compensation already received. It is important to give these laws a special weight to the event 30 years ago. In the SAB Group, however, we have doubts about the constitutionality of the Act and we agree with the Legislative and Legal Service, which has pointed out the lack of clarity of expression and ambiguity in the beneficiaries of compensation. Since the proposal does not clearly specify which compensation for which damage is deducted from the lump sum compensation and contains ambiguities regarding possible future compensation, it is the view of the PSC that it is unclear to this extent that it is inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution. The last of the laws of the military trio is the Law on Victims of War Violence. The bill stems from the actual circumstances of the period before, during and after military aggression against Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia recognised the family members of the person who lost her life in the war for Slovenia as a member of the Territorial Defence or the Slovenian Home Affairs Authority as entitled to legal protection. Children who lost their parents during World War II during World War II are also entitled to legal protection under the Law on Victims of War Violence. Legal protection must therefore also be provided to family members of civilians who have lost their lives because of military aggression. Parents, spouses, and children thus lost a family member, a traveling companion, emotional support, parental support, which no regulation can correct, and is therefore justified to provide them with legal protection after 30 years. We will not oppose the proposed laws in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the updated proposal for the Act on the Supplementation of the Law on Disabled Persons to the Meeting of the Assembly. To the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Special Rights of Victims Act in the War for Slovenia 1991 and to the Proposal for a Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Victims of War Violence, no amendment has already been adopted by the mother's labour force, nor have the amendments been tabled in the final provisions or in the transitional and final provisions, and I am therefore concluding the second reading of the draft laws. The decision on the draft laws will be made today in accordance with the timing of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 12th, 13th and 14th agendas. We're moving on to 15, 16. AND 17. Agenda item — Other defences of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Scholarships, Developmental, Invalidity and Survival, Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Receipts and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft laws were tabled by a group of eight Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš. At its 32nd meeting, on 9 September 2021, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons addressed proposals for legislation. Since the committee did not adopt the articles of the draft laws after the discussion, the second consideration of all three draft laws was completed at the meeting of the home working body. I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on all three proposals for legislation. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings again to all present at the hall! All the suggestions of the Left, which accidentally forgets the whole picture, we are slowly getting used to it. But the fact that they're spreading their voter pool to the divorcees, and they're only deepening their grip, but there's a move under the belt. Not even from their stubborn insistence on raising the minimum wage have they learned anything. For a few Euros, the most vulnerable have been taken away from more than they have received, as it is not clear that social transfers are still a complex transfer. Things are intertwined and with a slight change of one, the balance of all others is shattered. In order to understand these links, at least some basic knowledge of social policy is required in Slovenia. Almost every year, we read in the media that there was a family tragedy where there was an apple disputed by the breakup of the family. The emotional chaos that happens when a divorce occurs is difficult to change into marriage. The faults that are coming are writing incredible stories, stories when a support payer pays a few ten euros in maintenance and thus thinks he will cover all his obligations. The story of what both taxpayers and recipients do is as much as the story of the existence or non-existence of covida-19. Also in the area of subsistence is a whole bunch of couch lawyers who have eaten the whole mind of this world and are convinced of their own world right. Then they advise and cleverly regulate the problem of not paying the maintenance bills. It seems that the initiators of the proposal were looking for information on these issues. In committee discussions, I have listened to the fact that we do not know what it is like for women to meet again in court with their former partner, who was not aware of everything. Pressure on the emotions of all of us is just emotional abuse. If the partner had initially agreed wisely, they would not have to meet in court. But on the other hand, we also have those who pay high maintenance bills per hand, while at the same time spending a huge amount of money per month for children, and they are clearly not paying because it was not paid through a transaction account. As already mentioned, the maintenance area is complex. At the moment, the situation has been handled sufficiently. However, I absolutely agree with the fact that people are not familiar with the procedures in case of non-payment of maintenance. The relevant information should be obtained at social work centres and unfortunately they do not provide relevant information at social work centres. But who owns the centers for years, and I don't think I need to take any particular exposure. Maybe the proponents should start changing things there and not in law. I believe that some kind of mother or father would at least look like a higher amount of financial social assistance. It's embarrassing to even talk about who can spend less money better. It has been clear for some time that it is necessary to earn thousands of EUR 500 net per parent for a normal life in Slovenia. All that's less is living. In the Slovenian National Party we advocate the idea that we need to find a way for people in Slovenia to earn a decent monthly income, that we will no longer have to raise money to help people who cannot even afford the most basic things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u62	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Proposals for amendments to the law amending and supplementing the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the law on social security benefits, the law on public scholarships, development, disability and maintenance funds are laid down in such a way that maintenance is only valid for socially disadvantaged families or children. But that's not always true. Divorce and maintenance are the problem of all social strata. The bill contends that one of the key weaknesses of legislation in the area of maintenance is that maintenance is considered to be income that reduces the amount of financial social assistance. That shouldn't be a problem. We need to ask ourselves why a parent who obviously has to take care of one or more children is actually receiving financial social assistance. If there are no objective reasons, such as illness, disability, or temporary unemployment, for losing a job, there is no excuse. All parents in this country should work because this would be the best way to care for their children. We already need to fundamentally separate the livelihoods from the basic means of survival. The basic means of survival must be provided by each individual. If he can't do it for objective reasons, then the state will come to his aid. For basic needs of life, we do have financial social assistance. Children’s allowance is also intended for children. The continued increase in financial social assistance and other transfers does not lead in the right direction. In Slovenia we still have a high quality of life and a pretty good relationship between working and leisure time, so we need to build on at least keeping it if we do not improve. Because of complex social relations, family life is also becoming increasingly difficult, as figures show about divorces and terminations. The divorce itself has a certain effect on both partners, followed by difficult agreements on the sharing of assets and on livelihoods. Sometimes, however, they get involved mainly because of the nature of divorce, the cause of family discord. Therefore, the payment of maintenance is conditional on a way of separation and not love for the child. It is right that the State assumes the burden of payment of maintenance in cases where one of the parents of the maintenance does not pay, but the State should recover this unpaid maintenance from the non-payer. Especially in cases where this parent has enough resources to survive. The system by which maintenance is considered income until it is proven that maintenance has not been paid is not so unjust. If subsistence were not considered income, it would be unfair for all those parents where both parents work and all their incomes are taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. The electronic enforcement process is also not as complex and long-term as the applicant would like to present it. The applicant also misleads in assessing the financial implications of the state budget law, as he stated that no additional appropriations would be needed. This is contrary to what is proposed. If the unpaid maintenance is exempted from the income to be taken into account in the enforcement of monetary social assistance, then the monetary social assistance will increase and this will be an additional cost for the state budget. The bill also lacks numbers on how many single-parent families are recipients of financial social assistance and, above all, why these single-parent families receive monetary social assistance. The procedure for receiving the maintenance allowance must be rapid and simple. This is also the case in the Government's view, as in the case of non-payment of maintenance, there is a relatively rapid compensation for maintenance through the use of electronic enforcement. Receipts of social transfers often get used to supporting their children too quickly. This is contrary to the purpose of the law that imposes upon their parents the burden of child survival. There is also an unfortunate proposal to prove the non-payment of maintenance through bank statements, as a lot of maintenance is paid by hand or certain services or goods are paid directly, such as food, clothing, toys, training and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want more attention and action to be given to prevention in order to improve family life, so that there is no separation and determination of maintenance. We want individuals to have such high incomes that only one parent can support children. Taking into account the above, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we join the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Public Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which believe that the current legislation is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! About three months ago, I represented the position on this point of view of the law that we wanted to regulate the right of a permanent companion for all children with the special needs they need, but this arrangement was made impossible by the current coalition. A sad day for children with special needs was then. Unfortunately, today this story repeats itself. It's a sad day for children who should be given maintenance, but it's not for single parents' children, for one of the most vulnerable groups in our country. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia imposes in Article 54 on parents the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children. Maintenance is one of the institutes of family law and represents the obligation of parents to their children for the purpose of direct care of the child. Maintenance allows the child to have the appropriate living conditions necessary for his or her development, education and vocational education according to his or her abilities, inclinations and wishes. Of course, abuse occurs, and many parents do not fulfill these obligations, which is sad. This puts the child’s living burden on the single parent, making it possible for the State to compensate for the subsistence allowance paid by the maintenance fund and thus provide income to the child or the single parent. Everything looks nice and good on paper, but many beneficiaries face obstacles in managing the right to maintenance compensation. The procedure for obtaining compensation is complicated and the parents of beneficiaries are no longer able to exercise the right to compensation and are therefore not receiving it or receiving it at a late date, which further exacerbates the social situation of single-parent families. These single - parent households are in a very poor financial and social situation as children are in a two - parent household, especially if the parents are without their own income. With the proposed package of legislative amendments, the amendment of the law on public scholarships, disability and maintenance funds, the amendment of the law on social security benefits and the amendment of the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, we had a solution before us that would make an important contribution to the problem of non-payment of subsistence allowances. This is a major problem in our society, and the adoption of these novelties would simplify the procedures for receiving compensation in the case of unpaid maintenance, and would also eliminate the absurdity of taking maintenance into account as income in the enforcement of monetary social assistance. The government of Janez Janša has decided not to support such solutions, and coalition members of SDS, SMC and NSI have humbly pressed the anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-, anti-improvement key against improving the situation of single-parent families on the verge of survival. Not so long ago were the mouthfuls of Flossule “for children” many of these Members. Well, obviously, when it comes to years, we're wondering if it's really about kids. Not anymore than it's obvious. Moreover, the government of Janez Janša, by abolishing free testing and by its new reckless mega PCT decree, has put additional financial burden on many families who have been forced to pay for testing after a new one. We have been working for people since the beginning of our term of office in the List of Marjan Šarc. During the time of our government a number of developments have been made in the area of family and social policy. Among other things, we have eliminated all austerity measures in the area of family policy, released austerity measures in the area of social transfers, allocated funds to maintain the level of financial social assistance, raise the social benefits of individuals and households, and could also list them. Recently, though, as an opposition party, we have made it possible to compensate children who do not pay their children’s subsistence allowance by the age of 26 or as long as maintenance responsibilities persist. That is why, two weeks ago, with the support of these legislative changes, we wanted to help improve the social situation of the number of children or families in a poor social situation. However, the current government obviously does not care. It's probably not according to their belief that a real election base has been addressed. Let me finish just like I started. Another sad day under the government of Janez Janša for one of the vulnerable groups in our country — children from socially weak families.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The purpose of the proposals to amend and supplement the three laws governing the maintenance area is to simplify and accelerate procedures for the enforcement of the right to maintenance allowance in the event of non-payment of maintenance by the debtor and non-compliance with the unpaid subsistence allowance, which is considered to be income in determining eligibility for financial social assistance. Therefore, these amendments to the three laws would allow children whose parents, despite the agreement, do not fulfil their maintenance requirements to exercise the right to receive maintenance and social assistance. In view of the current arrangements, the legal representative of the child who wishes to enforce the right to a maintenance allowance must first try to recover the subsistence allowance from the parent who is obliged to pay it. The child’s guardian may thus file an application for compensation if it has failed in recovery or if the recovery process lasts more than 3 months. In most cases, they are mothers who, because of their separation from their spouse, are already in a difficult material and psychosocial position. Many of them, however, are victims of domestic violence, with NGOs dealing with this issue alerting them that in such cases non-payment of subsistence is also a form of economic violence that can take a long time after the victim has broken all ties with his former violent spouse or partner. In practice, the legal guardians of children have already been shown to know in advance that they will not be successful with enforcement because a parent who should pay for maintenance hides income, property or simply cannot be found. Therefore, the procedure for obtaining compensation should be simple and accessible to any beneficiary, regardless of whether he can afford adequate and effective legal assistance from a lawyer. The legislation governing maintenance is too complicated and bureaucratic and the recovery procedures are too long for those living below the poverty threshold and need maintenance for immediate survival. Non-payment of maintenance also has direct negative consequences on the material and social situation of children. In families in social distress, unpaid subsistence can result in severe material deprivation of a child’s basic necessities of life, such as food, clothing, or housing. In other children, unpaid subsistence means shortness of rest at sea, sports training or language or music courses. Respected and respected! On average, according to the maintenance fund, on average, between 3,000 and 4,000 children receive an annual allowance for unpaid maintenance. Unfortunately, however, the number of open maintenance fund claims per year is even increasing. Thus, for example, in 2019 the Fund had open claims on non-continuous parents amounting to €57 million. The number of claims that cannot be recovered is thus increasing every year as parents who do not pay their subsistence allowance are either unemployed or have a salary lower than they can be cut by enforcement. Most also have no savings or assets, and in some cases the parents are even homeless, in prison or moved abroad to an unknown address. In the discussion at the home work body, it appeared necessary to regulate the rules and the system governing maintenance and their recovery in the event of non-payment in a comprehensive manner. We supported the proposals of the three novels because we considered the proposed changes to be a first step towards facilitating the exercise of the right to a subsistence allowance, thereby improving the social security of families and reducing the material and psychosocial distress of children whose parents do not pay the dependents. Unfortunately, this proposal was not heard on the part of the government, on the SDS side, and their satellites, including the party Desus, which is a constructive opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I suggest that those of you who submit your views to the Group of Members are also worthy of those of you and others who are in this National Assembly. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian social system is not designed to help citizens and citizens most vulnerable in our society who are in distress and who should be helped through state institutions as a community. It is deliberately built as a maze through which no Ariadne thread leads. Why? To prevent as many people as possible from exercising the rights that, under our legislation and also to stop, Slovenia as a social state, belong to them. The maintenance area is no different. The legislation that regulates it is very complicated, it's scattered by a bunch of laws. When we clung to it on the basis of public input, we found that we had to cut into three laws. As soon as we were preparing legislation for the maintenance sector, it became clear to us that the final objective of the rehabilitation of the maintenance system is to centralise the system of determining and paying maintenance through the intermediary or the state, more specifically the maintenance fund, and to establish a minimum or baseline maintenance. In this way, a single mother in distress could turn directly to a maintenance fund that would take care of everything such a person needs, in contrast to the current situation in which a single parent household in distress, mentally, materially, in cases of unpaid subsistence, is confronted with months and months of bureaucratic mills, so that it can reach its basic right. The fact that the area of payment of maintenance needs to be thoroughly renovated also shows that, at the same time as we have invested this initiative in the National Assembly, we have asked citizens and citizens about their stories, about their personal experiences in the field of subsistence. In just one week we received about 50 stories that confirm the same thing – our maintenance system is a maze, not designed to help children in single parent households, but designed to deter as many people as possible from exercising their social rights. Single-parent households are one of the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia. Especially vulnerable are those families where parents who are entrusted with the care and training of their children are without their own income for survival. Among families, the worst social situation is for single parent households with at least one dependent child. In this population group, the poverty rate was 21.8% in 2020 or, in translation, only 1 in 5 single parent families lives below the poverty risk threshold. The first reason why this is so can be found in the fact that the maintenance in Slovenia is highly low because we do not have the legal minimum or starting point of maintenance, as they know in Germany or Sweden. According to the Ministry of Labour, there are as many as 3 000 500 beneficiaries with a subsistence allowance of less than EUR 20, and then there are 12 000 500 beneficiaries with a subsistence allowance of less than EUR 80 and 33 000 500 with a subsistence allowance of less than EUR 120. Although there are about 56 thousand 500 beneficiaries of maintenance. One of the key problems we want to solve with our legislation is not even the very level of maintenance. Before we come to that conclusion at all, we must face the fact that the maintenance system is fully complex, inefficient and long-term in particular in the process of obtaining maintenance compensation when this maintenance was not paid by the maintenance debtor, which is usually a absent father. The public scholarship, development, disability and maintenance fund, under the current legislation, will only start to pay the compensation once an application for implementation for unpaid maintenance has been made. This enforcement procedure is very complicated. From the creditor, usually single mothers, it requires a lot of energy and effort, and I reiterate that these are families with a terrible high risk of poverty. The creditor must obtain data on the permanent residence of the former partner or parent, the data on his employer, the transaction account number, and the translation of documents in cases where the debtor is resident in a foreign country and must also participate in the recovery proceedings and the recovery process in a court of law. This is particularly burdensome for creditors who have experienced violence in a partnership. All of this is often impossible because of the complexity of procedures without the assistance of a legal adviser. At the same time, we cannot ignore the facts of the practice where there are cases of survivors exploiting gaps in legislation to conceal property, exert various forms of pressure on the creditor, economic, psychological, and even intimidate him in extreme cases. How do we propose in Levica that we address this terrible situation here and now? For starters. An allowance for unpaid maintenance may only benefit a single parent household by applying for a maintenance fund and proving, in accordance with the way it can, for example, through bank statements and other documentation, that a maintenance allowance has not been settled. However, this fund shall immediately provide for maintenance compensation and shall assume the task of recovery of unpaid maintenance by those partners who are absent from the household and are obliged to pay for maintenance. In this way, for the first time, we can provide a single mother immediately and for the shortest possible time, while at the same time protecting her from psychological pressures and traumatic experiences in courts, where she must face a former partner who was often violent. Which brings me to the second proposal we have, that the decision taken by the maintenance fund to the applicant may be invoked at the social work centre as evidence that maintenance has not really been paid. In this way, the single parent household enjoys full social rights. I am talking about that even if the maintenance has not been paid, these centres for social work do not detect and deal with monetary social assistance and other social benefits of the single parent household for a reduced rate, as long as the level of subsistence has been reduced, until the human being proves it. But the only practical way a single mother can prove this right now at the social work center is to make an execution, a document that comes out of the trial mills. We would like to avoid this very mill, so we say that a decision from the maintenance fund is sufficient for the full enjoyment of social rights, without the need for a single-parent household, a mother, to whine in court mills and to face a former partner there. This is a relatively simple intervention in complex legislation that would help the most vulnerable, help the children in social distress, help the mothers who survive these children. Nevertheless, there was not enough political will to listen to us to listen to citizens and citizens in distress or to NGOs working in this area. Moreover, we have already been able to listen to indications in the presentation of our views as to how, in fact, such single mothers are to blame for the situation themselves, how it is basically the abuse of the social system and so on. One of the stories we have received is that I have chosen it to conclude what we are actually talking about. It condenses everything that's wrong with our system. It goes like this: “My husband beat me first when I took him out of my apartment with the police, and he became mentally and physically violent toward a five - year - old son. I've reached that there are no contacts, but now he's suing a higher court. Lawyers are expensive, court costs are also, he didn't pay maintenance. Twice we had the executioner's criminal procedure at his home, never got the punishment, only had to pay. The costs of the lawsuits were higher than the amounts recovered. The judicial system works slowly and in the interests of the non-payer. Everything is on my shoulders, and he escapes unpunished with ease.” For the sake of the child? We will continue our efforts to regulate the maintenance area in Levica, and we also expect that from the next government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. We are also dealing with this point with three laws dealing with the same issue but touching three different laws, namely the law on public scholarship, development, disability and maintenance, the law on social security benefits and the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. Under the current regime, a child or one of the parents may, in the event of non-payment of maintenance, turn to the Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disabled and Maintenance Fund to deposit the amount of unpaid maintenance to the child and then recover it from the beneficiary. In doing so, it must demonstrate by one of those documents that the maintenance is not paid. These are: a proposal for enforcement, a certificate of submission by the court, an enforcement decision, evidence of failure to execute or a certificate by the competent ministry that a recovery procedure has been initiated from abroad. They do not hold to the statement that we have appeared in public that we are in the anti-payment coalition. The proposed amendments to these amendments to the laws wish that the maintenance beneficiary should not be deprived of all the possibilities that the beneficiary has to pay for maintenance, but should only be able to apply bank statements to the maintenance fund that would pay him the maintenance allowance. The proposer forgets that maintenance may also be paid in another form, which is not recorded in bank statements, even in cash. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats' proposals for amendments to all three laws on the home labour body have not been supported, because we advocate that the state should not interfere with family life, but should, in principle, regulate matters first at the lowest level, i.e. within families. Only when the agreement in the family is not possible and all the funds have been used in our case for the maintenance claim to interfere with the state with the maintenance fund. Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity. The Community avoids risks that an individual could never solve. The basic forms of solidarity are assistance and support in the narrowest life cycle, first in the family, which is the basic cell of society, then among friends, neighbours and in private communities. The company must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold. We promote awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his or her own secure social situation. Several factors are responsible for the social security of each individual. First, each individual, then his or her family, his or her working and living environment, and finally a country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The three bills before us are linked because they deal with the same issue, so I will present the position as the rest of the three proposals in this point. Maintenance is one of the institutions of family law, especially in relation to the maintenance relationship between children and parents, or between a spouse or an ex - spouse. Most of the time we meet her when we divorce a marriage that causes stress for both parents and children, but it also adds to the financial burden of the parent who takes on most of the child’s or children’s care after the divorce. Therefore, maintenance to a large number of custodians is income that allows for the maintenance of basic standards of residence and activities on which the child has been used. However, where one parent fails to meet the maintenance obligation, a public maintenance fund shall be placed in the role of the creditor, which shall, before that child or parent, pay the maintenance allowance that is later removed from the debtor. However, for a number of beneficiaries, the recovery process is long-term, excruciating and financially unfulfilled. Under the current regime, the beneficiary must first wait for the maintenance liability to not pay the maintenance allowance three times in a row and then submit a proposal for enforcement and wait another three months to be entitled to apply for maintenance compensation. The proposed amendment would simplify this procedure by eliminating the necessary requirement for a maintenance refund application, which is currently an enforcement proposal for the recovery of unpaid maintenance. An application for a maintenance refund would be sufficient, following the proposed arrangements, to make an application with the accompanying final extracts or other documents showing that the maintenance was not paid or that the maintenance debtor pays irregularly. In this way, the procedure for obtaining maintenance compensation in practice would be reduced by three months. At the same time, an article would be deleted which prevents the maintenance allowance from being paid to maintenance beneficiaries who have been given an amount of maintenance less than 8,35 euros in the executive title. In the SAB Group, we believe that this small change appears to be one of the important steps towards the objective of fair treatment of the most vulnerable groups, especially children, as it enables them to have a more carefree childhood or schooling and at the same time solves a number of social distress for single parent families. We are disappointed by the coalition that has failed to support and support the change that has helped those in need. Members of the SAB, of course, supported all three proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on all three draft laws has been completed. This concludes agenda items 15, 16 and 17. We're moving to 22. On a daily basis, this is the first defence proposal for a law on debirocratisation within the framework of a regular procedure. As the proposal for a new proposal replaces the draft law on debarcation on 22 September, the 22nd item on the agenda of this meeting has become irrelevant on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12 noon and 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.46 p.m. and resumed at 12.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u74	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly shall vote in accordance with the following order: 30., 2, 12, 13, 14, 11, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34 and 1st agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda – Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act. I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 44. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 44.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims Act of the War on Slovenia 1991 in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 61, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. 9. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, for 36, for 41. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing that the amendment wasn't accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 80, for 2. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against two.]] I'm guessing it's the law that's been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Animals under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2021. First, we decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 8 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, for 42, for 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing that the amendment wasn't accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 8(2). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 49, for 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 30 to 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing that the amendment wasn't accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 87, against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I find that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 8 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would not have brought the proposal of the law into line in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 87 votes against one. [[The vote was 87.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 19th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace following a regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. 9. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 4. Mr Baković, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u75	I just want to say again very briefly why I'm going to support this amendment. So far, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace has always been defined by the way in which the one who argued, howled, indecisively knew in a public place, this in itself did not constitute a violation. At the same time, someone may have felt upset, frightened, threatened, or something. Now this clear limit is being removed, which means whether or not someone feels upset or not, in such a case, a policeman must or may decide completely subjectively whether or not to be upset. Even though this man is not then disturbed, the offence may still stand, which is, of course, all the practice that has been used so far, including the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, with the comment of this law, which is speaking about it, in fact, quite contrary. This is a heavy burden for police officers to determine whether or not something could cause alarm. At the same time, there is a potential for abuse because of this; it can be decided in one way or another, completely subjective. Of course, later legal remedies are available, but we cannot impose this burden on those who detect and process the offences. Errors or abuses may be possible whenever it comes to subjective decision-making. Therefore, our Group will support this amendment tabled by the LMŠ and we have also signed it because it restores the situation to its original state. Once again, the difference is that in the first case so far it has always been that the offence must have been composed of two components, one that someone was yelling and screaming, and the other that they upset someone. Now the police will find out if it could upset someone or not. Even if it doesn't upset me, the policeman can still give me a fine, which I think is contrary to the practice that it has been so far, and even contrary to everything that the experts have written about this law. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We will also support this amendment in the LMŠ to erase or delete this disputed article because we believe that a change to this offence, which the law already knows, is not necessary. A number of legal experts have made this point. Moreover, the reason or reason for amending this article was more than likely an incident in Kredarica. Such an ad hoc change of criminal policy is unacceptable in the rule of law. Criminal policy should be based on a number of principles that are not taken into account here. After all, it is very unhappy if I am kinder or if I am a little more kinder, a very greedy record of this article. It is an overly broad dictatorship that allows too much arbitrariness to officials who will judge when someone can only be upset and when they can't. In short, in our legal order, once again with this article, this amendment of the law introduces too much confusion and not least as high criminal sanctions, the fines that this article now provides, not only have a frightening effect on all those citizens who hope to speak out and talk out loud about their non-compliance with government policy, but these financial penalties, which are too great, also impose a imbalance between other criminal sanctions in criminal law and ultimately create even a conflict between certain criminal offences. It will happen to us if this article, in the form proposed, is accepted that a police officer in the field, at least in our opinion, when confronted with some actual situation, will not be able to assess in reality whether it is a matter of meeting the signs of the offence or whether it is a matter of meeting the signs of the crime. And his judgment will be solely and solely based on his personal perception. As we have pointed out, a citizen will be lucky, and there will be a police officer at work one day who will make that decision, and the next day another police officer will be at work who will decide otherwise. It is unacceptable and unacceptable to tolerate such a penal policy, a new and new repression under this government in our country. The only right option is to delete this article and remain as the law already does.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. In Levika we will certainly support the opposition's amendment, which brings things back to where they were before the proposal for this introduction, i.e. attacks on democracy, the introduction or attempt to legislate a modern-day verbal delinquent. Yesterday, the debate made it clear that the amendment of the coalition was a pure bluff, bluffing about punishment or the fines of a pimp. That is not true, it is a law that raises the political class above the others, for whom, after all, is usually accompanied by the police. When I step out of the National Assembly, there are cops here to protect me, not to protect anyone. Leave the country to such arbitrary measures, where the police will play a psychologist and decide how you felt when they attack you, is something insurmountable and is a truly shameless, shameless attack on freedom of speech guaranteed in the constitution, an attack on anyone who would even dare to criticize this authority. We will absolutely support the opposition's amendment and absolutely oppose the introduction of a verbal delinquency in this country in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since there was no spray in the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah, who? It's called SD. Magus first. Koprivc. Mr Baković, on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u81	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that the amendment in which I explained my voice earlier was not adopted, of course, we cannot support the Social Democrats of this law, even though there are some solutions that are necessary. If not, change in euro tolars, which has been dragging since 2007 and has a long beard. The law itself would not have been harmful if it had not been for the first time on September 1st that the first amendment that had upset the public had been tabled and then another amendment had been tabled on the basis of this excitement, which completely erases this trace that I have previously spoken about and I do not want to repeat myself. It is for me and my group, too, that the legislation that is changing or emerging must always be clear, unequivocal and, as such, can live in practice. All that's going to happen now is not going to ask me how I felt, how I felt, how he's not going to ask me, he's just going to assess the situation that could lead to someone being upset or not hurting their reputation. Yesterday, I explained a few cases why this would be a problem. In fact, it is purely subjective, depending on what the person’s threshold is, that something would seem to him to be upsetting or not. If someone threatens me in some way, and it's not a crime to be threatened in this situation, but I'm not upset about it, the police will actually estimate that he could be upset, even though I'm not. And that's unacceptable, and it's actually at odds with all the rules of law. Harmful delinquents or delinquents who refer to honor and good name always come from the way the victim felt at that time, whether he was threatened, frightened, upset. And if we take this element away, then anyone can make that decision, regardless of whether or not someone asks me if I'm really scared or if I was really upset. And that's what we're dealing with, Your Honor. I suggest we reject this law and prepare it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] without this provision and then we vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Colleague Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the House of Representatives. We will vote firmly against this law in Levica. It is another form of repressive laws that increasingly turn this country into a police force. For before us is the law, which, in the context of the conversion of fines from tolars, increases all fines for all offences. That's the first one. Before I go to the most insidious, let me say that there are many other issues in this proposal. For example, during the heighting of fines there is also a hanging of fines for homeless people who will be punished because they do not have a home. This will put them in an even more vulnerable position. The bill also extends the powers of directors. In addition, this bill provides for the possibility of imposing higher fines than those prescribed in the rapid procedure. At present, this is possible only in the case of two offences, and the change will always be possible. Legislation should consistently restrict repressive authorities by a set of safeguards, rules, prohibitions and guidelines. In this case, the coalition does exactly the opposite. The police and the editors are therefore empowered in a way that allows for an individual assessment of the repressive authority. I am talking, of course, about the attempt to legislate a modern Article 133 or a verbal delinquency, an article which provides for a fine for anyone who dares to criticise power. Of course, you would be criticized by pigs and sloths, but that's not going to work, and that's going to have to be punished with a thousand euros. And if that doesn't work, it's clear that you're already preparing a change to the code, which will send any verbal offenders, returnees, straight to the arrest. This proposal of yours is a shameless and brutal attack on democracy, not on the constitutional right of expression, which, of course, includes criticism of power. More than that, which includes sharp criticism of power. The amendment of the coalition, which is now supposed to set the same offense for all, not only for those who dare too much, so to criticize power, but, of course, the mere larifari and the rude jesting of men. It's a clean bluff. As I said, we, the political class, are being protected by cops, not by a regular doorman, so stop bluffing. This is a scandal, this is a disgrace, and so we will strongly oppose this law in Levic. We are also predicting constitutional review and possibly other actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Rudy Medved on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, President. Just moments ago, we witnessed a sad act in the National Assembly. The Coalition of Deprivers of the Right to Publicised Criticism of Power has committed itself to the legalization of verbal delinquency. So she purposed to punish people drasticly for what she had said — beware! - wrong words. And that's what we need to worry about. It is no wonder, therefore, that the comparison itself is offered with the infamous 133rd Article of the previous regime and the current 7th Article of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, with which the government simply wants to intimidate and silence the criticisms of the authorities. The authorities can't take the criticism, and they'll do anything to wipe it out. The fact that the coalition with supporters today accepts is that this authority of its own people is simply afraid and that this measure is simply a repressive measure. It is a brutal restriction on freedom under cover of persecution of street violence. The authorities claim that she cares about anyone in this country. But, of course, this marriage, like it, does not mean anything for an adulterer. 99.9% of all cases that should be sanctioned under this law will of course never be sanctioned. Why not? Because there won't be an official there. Where will the officials be present? Yeah, wherever it's supposed to be, people can get together and criticize power. And how will a policeman – now the interior minister even treats them with creeps, only with lazy people a while ago – when someone shouts: “Down with the government”? Very different criteria are what it means and who may be disturbed by such an exclaim. This will, in fact, be the basis for additional bullying and intimidation by the police themselves, who will tell them through the authorities what is what upsets or upsets this power, what is what 500 euros is and what is what it is for the jury. In the LMŠ Group, we will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Janja Slug has the floor on behalf of a member of the group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have already stressed in our position that we know that the law also contains some good things. Unfortunately, what has happened to this law since the beginning of September this year is something that is unacceptable. In the past, it has already been shown that writing laws on the basis of a single case in practice is the most wrong thing that can happen to a politician. And that's exactly what's happening here. With the repression of establishing a culture of dialogue in this country, it is all the more wrong. The responsibility for this to happen is actually borne by all of us sitting here, all of us out there. Each of us must contribute to this culture of dialogue and to some democratic dialogue to the best of our ability. But at this point, when we face a wave of epidemics again, instead of dealing with it, instead of dealing with how we're going to raise the gap, how we're going to communicate positively and wake people up to get vaccinated to stick to the measures and so on, and now we're wasting time with some absurd debates, with some price lists for the insults of those and those. Surely, this course of action will not escape this situation. By the way, the government and the ruling, full of mouths and imaginations are polarizing you, mocking you, gazing, humiliating you, and what is more, and in fact you are the ones who are scolding for cultural or democratic dialogue. Of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Yeah, mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u89	First of all, let me be clear that in the SAB we do not support nor offend people, nor offend officials. However, the government has done this completely wrong. First of all, it should be an example and stop tweeting, complaining, grumbling, inventing new pencils. This law would not be wrong if it remained only for the conversion of tolar punishments into Euros. But the change introduced by the government is totally unnecessary and pointless and, in our view, even with the constitution of an unconformable article is totally unnecessary. It allows even subjective punishment of individuals in the presence of officials. If we know that the problems of insulting officials have not been so detected by the judiciary, not the prosecution, not the Members, but that this has come from the internal ministry, without the Ministry being able to justify what the existing law has not been able to sanction, this is just evidence that the government wants to silence people in the lowest possible way, by fear. In the SAB, of course, we will strongly oppose this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Since there is still some interest in explaining the voice on my own behalf, I will initiate the application. Please login to anyone who wishes to explain your voice in your own name. The first word is Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Once again, let me be clear and loud that we will not support this in the LMŠ, nor will I support this bill alone, because we do not want Slovenia as is currently being introduced by this government led by the SDS, SMC and NSI coalition with the support of SNS, Desus and minorities. We don't want Slovenia as you're introducing it. First, silence all critics, deal with them. Secondly, the silence of objective media as well as journalists. Thirdly, the silence of civil society and NGOs. Fourth time, comparing journalists with prosthetics. Five, grappling people with pigs. Six, this today, punishing people with fines of 500 to 1,000 euros only if they criticize this government or these ministers or, God forbid, the Prime Minister. No, thanks for the company, the society of repression! We want freedom and constitutional laws, not the decrees taken in the middle of the night at weekends, past the profession of admission of 18 people and terrorism throughout the country. In fact, the paradox is that 18 people in this country terrorize 2 million people with their decisions taken in the middle of the night during weekends at written sessions. We strongly oppose this in LMŠ and personally, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues! In the 20th century, the first activities of fascism were to silence the infamous. That was one of their main tasks. 100 years later, history repeats itself. Today we are voting on the renewal of the repressive law that flourished during the Fascism. Police officers, they will arbitrarily be able to decide the fate of an individual, a fate that will punish practically with one, probably with two, even three pensions, if we put it in numbers, just because it may express some disagreement with the system. With what system? With today, I call him chief because there's no one else and his sheriffs. This is very sad, harmful, scandalous, immoral and wrong. And you know it's true. I now propose to those present who are still somehow in doubt, but above all I appeal to the minority Members to at least abstain from voting. We strongly oppose this law and, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I haven't heard from this law by now, I'm going to be very brief. Jelko Kacin is 65 years old, Janez Janša recently celebrated his 63rd birthday, I am 52 years old, our colleague Han is a little younger there. We all kind of matured in the second half of the '70s and '80s. Most of us, if it wasn't the moms or someone, when they were cleaning up ex-children's teenage rooms, throwing them in the trash, we've got that baton 133 crossed off somewhere. Now, not only does history repeat itself as a farce, but history repeats itself as irresponsible, dangerous – and I will once for a change be a hojsov – pig. Of course I won't support this kind of shit. And they're not half-breeded members of the police, they're not half-breeds, they're sitting on Gregorčič. You're the one who's gonna back this up. You're the one who's gonna back this up. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It is illustrative to expect a police officer on the road to see a couple who talk a little loud or even argue, punish the couple with a fine of 1,000 euros. However, it is not so illusory or unlikely that this same police officer will be able to speak louder and criticise the government’s policy, yet he will have a thousand euros in fines. This new higher fine, which you are now enforcing, does not really mean anything but protection, protecting government February in order to silence all those who might even be allowed to speak out loud and say what is wrong with your policy. This is nothing more than the introduction of a verbal delinquency in our society and such repression I will firmly say not by objecting to the adoption of this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This marriage is not surprising in any way. As we have already explained in the debate, there is only one logical legacy of everything we have seen in the last year and a half, the bad two years, that is, the state of two classes, the rules for political elites on the one hand, and the rules for all others who are different, and penalties are paid. At the time of the epidemic, this proved to be the most clear and plastic. Remember the case of walkers near Kolpa who did not receive any sanctions for their work without masks, and on the other hand the family who ate croissants for 800 euros. Even the stories about having a solution on the table, as we heard yesterday in a debate that eliminates hooliganism, street violence, violence at all, are, frankly, ridiculous. We have law writers who have been full of prostitutes, chauffeurs, coaches, faggots, lesbians, pigs, lionesses, politicians and so on. And these same writers are now preaching about respectful and nonviolent dialogue. It's just funny. All of this is essentially why people actually hate this government and literally spit. In fact, all the government is doing with this proposal is that it has only deepened the gap between people and the political elite, even more so, it legitimizes this main reason why people actually hate this government. The law is bad, it deserves at least a constitutional opinion, it deserves at least a popular opinion at the referendum, and in any case, it gets my personal opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u101	In 1986 he was at the Congress of the ZSMS in Krk. I remember John Jansha at this convention, shouting out famous slogans, the only thing he couldn't do at the time, he couldn't handle civil service because he swore on everything else, just not that. But he talked a lot about Article 133. And from 1986 until 2019 he did not forget this, because he even ordered the posters, SDS jumbos, to glue article 133 as some kind of password, how the power shuts down, I will say, a free word. Then he becomes Prime Minister. And look at the fragment! This same ex-ZSMS guy, who screamed out loud, lets his Hoys take a little walk on this law. And dear colleagues and colleagues, especially on the other side, you can move around, you can look up at the air, you can wave your hand, but I want you to once this story is over, and if this is going to happen to you, what you're doing today. Because the practices and opportunities, the way you express it, are huge. Of course, I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Each dictator then or earlier introduces a verbal delinquency. Apparently, Janez Janša is planning to introduce him today. But let us stop blinding ourselves, and everyone is fully aware of the reason why this law is adopted. The occasion is the meeting of Ivan Janez Janša with Teja Jarc on Triglav. Teja Jarc told him what 80% of Slovenians, citizens and citizens think. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u104	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u105	Respected and respected! The fact is, people hate this government. It is high time to stop these practices. I will vote against such a law, but in the democratic opposition we will use all legal means to ensure that such a matter does not take effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. As you may have noticed, we are equipped with a new sound system and it all sounds better, but I would still ask you to be so respectful of your interlocutors or speakers that you are silent when your voice is spoken or reasoned. I wonder how much more interest there is. Even individuals, Natasha Sukič has the first word, then Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected! We live in a country that has recently enacted a reduction in speeding penalties in cramped settlements. We live in a country that had the longest curfew. We live in a country that today intends to legitimize verbal delinquency. What else is it like to move this country, to turn this country into a police state? What else is it like for a political elite to lock themselves in an ivory tower, raise above the people, and clearly show that if you say anything critical about us, you will be engulfed with 500 to 1,000 euros? Why do I know that? Yesterday in the debate, it turned out fine. For example, Ambassador Polnar made it clear why he would support this law. Because someone in the Republic Market accused him of being a traitor. Then the MPs and the MPs on the right hand fairies described their painful experiences of how people on the road told them this and that. Yesterday, it was perfectly clear how intense it was. Just like she was before you tabled your amendment, trying to mask the matter. Rejective and sad. You make fun of people. They would discipline people in unsustainable ways, sanction people in unsustainable ways. It's a really bad form of repression, it's against everything that's written in the constitution. Of course, I will strongly vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote absolutely against this law. I'll tell you why. This marriage belongs to that section that I think is already full of how the nation is divided into two parts in this country. If you think in the government that this law will solve the problems that have accumulated, solve the epidemic, you've made a big mistake in my terms. You have this happiness in this national assembly, that you have an uncritical part of one opposition, some individuals who are just waiting for this mandate to pass and that they will withdraw from public life. But that's their business. Now I'm going to say one of the practices. Social Democrats, unlike some others, thank God, we still hope to walk in Slovenia. We were also among the people in the Rippers today. And we're not just among our people. There came to me a gentleman who obviously wasn't our voter and obviously didn't praise us. More than that, he insulted me, insulted my president, insulted our actions. And when this law is passed, if I were so uncritical, I could even incriminate him and he should pay a thousand euros in fines. But since I am a politician and I know that people are disappointed, I can only go against such a gentleman with a warm word and with counter-arguments. And you know what happened at the end? Finally, we both agreed that he didn't have all the information and that maybe I have something right. And in this way, ladies and gentlemen, things are being resolved — with a good word, with listening, not with aggression. That is why I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I didn't want to talk, but I have to take this. Security is the fundamental need of man. We've had physical attacks, threats, anonymities on the street, and here as well. We were marked with fascists, goggles and gazing – a new verb that mocks anything. We had an attack on parliament last Wednesday. It was an attack on democracy. It all starts verbally, with threats and ends with violence. I regret to note that the wounded police officers were in front of the Parliament building, and this is very sad. Those who support violence will vote against such a law. Those who believe that we can live in harmony and cooperation will be supported by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. (The vote was 43.)(against 44.) I understand that the law is not passed. [[applause in the hall]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, that is to say, a bill on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Sweden on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and tax evasion with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. She's a magician's colleague. Alenka Bratušek, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u113	For this and the next two points – we will not support these three laws on the Convention in the SAB party. Why? Because in a year and a half, the government is unable to carry out proceedings and appoint delegated prosecutors. All these laws, all this paper is worthless if our government is unable to do the basic homework. None of the next three points will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which the Council prepared on the basis of Title 34. Member of the Treaty on European Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. Agenda item — Confirmation of the Official Clearing House of the Road Traffic Law. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Road Traffic Rules Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. Agenda item — Proposal for conclusions on the preparation of official revised legal texts. On 3 and 7 September 2021, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decisions should be taken on the preparation of official consolidated texts of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Financial Operations Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision shall be adopted: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Criminal Procedure Act. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. (The vote was 60.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision shall be adopted: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Financial Action Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. (The vote was 60.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d. d. The proposal to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal for appointment, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u115	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding is based on the procedure carried out under Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Due to the resignation of SDH Supervisory Board member Igor Kržana, the Minister of Finance adopted a decision on 24 May on the appointment and tasks of the expert commission to prepare a proposal for members of the SDH Supervisory Board. The expert committee issued an open public call, on the basis of which it was unable to submit a sufficient number of relevant candidates, as only one candidate had arrived. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Minister of Finance proposed to the Government a candidate who was the only one to apply for an open public invitation. The CV of Mr Leon Zizl shows that he has the right education, since he is a graduate engineer of engineering with a Master's degree in nuclear technology and a doctor of physics. He was a research assistant at the Jožef Stefan Institute, a podoctoral researcher in Germany, and an outstanding professor at the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics in Ljubljana, where he is currently a regular professor and head of the Department of Reactor Technology at the Jožef Stefan Institute. He was Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency for Radioactive Waste and Vice-President of the Supervisory Boards of Gen Energy and Eles. He also has extensive experience in managing the international environment, as he was Chairman of the Management Board of the European Nuclear Education Network, President of the European Atomic Energy Association, Member of the Management Board of the European Platform for Sustainable Nuclear Energy and Chairman of the Section for Nuclear Engineering in the American Association of Engineering Engineers. He is also a member of domestic and international scientific and professional associations, and is decorated with personal integrity and business ethics. However, all of his mentioned experiences in the fields of science and the economy and in the links between science and industry confirm his business performance and reputation. Mr Leon Cizelj also fulfils the other conditions laid down in Article 39 of the SDH Act. It shall not perform a function which, under the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, is incompatible with the membership of the supervisory authority or the management body of an economic company after this or another law and has not performed such a function in the last six months. He is not a member of the management or control authority of a company in which SDH has a majority or dominant influence. She is not a natural person who has or has had a position in the political party to which she has been or has been appointed in the last six months. In addition, the proposal for the appointment of Mr Leon Cislj shall ensure compliance with Article 39(3) of the SDH Act, as it adequately complements the expertise and competence of the current members of the SDH Supervisory Board, as shown in its CV with evidence and forms of public appeal and its own written justification for the application. The government approved the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Leon Cizelj be appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding for a term of five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Following is a presentation of the position of the LMŠ Group. Igor Peček has the word. No, no, no. We're done with the presentations. There are no applications for discussion. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act and Article 112 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: The National Assembly finds that Igor Kržan is 5. 1. 2021 gave a derogation from the position of member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., and therefore terminated his term of office as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Leon Cizelj as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d. d., for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election to a judicial function at the District Courts' courts in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of Tina Lesar, Ana Bučar Brglez and Eve Bizjak for judicial office at the courts of the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We move to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Tina Lesar is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Ana Bučar Brglez is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 27 [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision that elects Neva Bizjak as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election in a judicial function in the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Kamnik and the District Court in Grosuplje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Irma Ulčar to the judicial office of the District Court in Kamnik and a proposal for the election of Tanja César to the judicial office of the District Court in Grosuplje. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Irma Ulčar as judge of the District Court of Justice at the Kamnik District Court. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Tanja Cesar as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the Grossupli District Court. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Celje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Tanja Kordež Bromša as a judge at the District Court in Celje. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision that elects Tanja Kordež Bromša as Judge of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Court in Kranj, Criminal Section, for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Igor Fortun. The request was brought before the District Court in Kranj, Criminal Division, for consideration by the assembly. The request was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 212 and Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the request of the District Court in Kranj, IK25218/2015-46, of 27. 5. 2021 for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Igor Fortun on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed an offence of unlawful, biased and unfair trial under Article 288(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and a criminal offence of a violation of human dignity, an abuse of an official position or of an official right under Article 266 KZ-1, having regard to the opinion of the Court of Justice number SU251/2021-3, of 17. 6. 2021, does not grant immunity to Judge Igor Fortun and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion and explanation of vote. We vote against immunity. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will proceed to the vote on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers of 21. 9. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the Member's question of Robert Pavšić regarding suspicions of non-transparent and potentially corrupt contacts with suppliers of equipment and other devices to the public health service and other budgetary users. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the mags. Mark Koprivac in connection with the lack of public rentals. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Luke Mesca on health corruption and the links between policies with suppliers. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the mission of Željk Cigler concerning the provision of adequate infrastructure to public primary schools and kindergartens. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the parliamentary question of Mr Andre Zabret concerning the anomalies related to the new government decision on the condition of the PCT. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the status of the functioning of society in the public interest in the field of culture. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler Kralje to the question by Mr Nataša Sukič regarding the accelerated rise in food prices and basic foods. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 41. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Ms Kociper on compliance with the condition of PCT. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of the delegation of Jani Ivanuše concerning the work of the police in Ormož. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 66. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Lenart's question on the reduction of the treatment of so-called non-visible patients. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska to the question of Mr Vojk Starović on the national recovery and resilience plan. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak asked Rudija Medved about the decision to terminate the Air Quality Plan Decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I find that the decision is not adopted The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Meire Hot regarding the testing of users of personal assistance services. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of the matter of leaving the allowance for assistance and services for the blind and visually impaired in the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question on the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the proposals for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, to Violet Tomić's question on the invitation to the Ministry of Culture for the series after the novel Drag Jančar This night I saw her We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak asked Mark Bandelli about the construction of the Suhorica Accumulation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to the question of Mr Janje Slug in relation to the distortion of the operation of the Notary Office in Žalec. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 41. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the condition of PCT for recipients of aid for humanitarian organisations and users of emergency social services We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of Mrs Lenart in relation to the area of organic agriculture in the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy 2023-2027 and his role in mitigating and preventing climate change. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to Mark Bandelli's question on the third dose of the vaccine. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Shirclj to the question of the Mag. Andrej Reich's expenditure on the state budget. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
