ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franz Jurša, Nick Prebil from 9.30 a.m. to 13 p.m., Violet Tomić, Željko Cigler, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 10-11 p.m. and Soniboj Knezak until 13 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE MORNING LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed by Nataša Sukić. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Natasha Sukić, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalers, Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Respected and respected! There's no safe fracking. No one can guarantee that in the depths of the wells nothing can be broken, which will then lead to the leakage of toxic substances, groundwater pollution and human health threats. It is therefore quite clear that fracking should be prohibited and prohibited in its entirety. Therefore, in Levica, together with LMŠ, SD and SAB again, for the fifth time, we tabled a proposal for a total legal ban on fracking or hydraulic fracturing in the territory of Slovenia, which would prevent the plans of British multinational Ascent Resources for drilling in the Premurje Petišovci. The reason for the reintroduction of the law is the conduct of the Government, which has so far openly supported the dirty capital, and, according to the new one, it is trying to hide its support under the supposed and meaningless gestures to protect the environment. The government has been constantly talking about its own proposal for amendments to the Mining Act, which is supposed to prohibit only large hydraulic fracturing, and has established some kind of separation between the cracking that threatens the surrounding water resources and the cracking that does not. The establishment of such a separator is completely irrelevant and misleading. No Ascent Resources, no Minister Visjak, no one else can guarantee that fracking is safe. It is easy to declare a fracturing as safe in a corporate statement for the public or government document, to remedy the consequences of an accident that can lead to total environmental degradation, and to pollute groundwater with toxic substances or individual earthquake in the vicinity of the breakage, and it is significantly more difficult, if not impossible. But what is most scandalous, the government in PKP9 wrote in article 11 in its legal manner: “The validity of mining rights for concessionaires whose concessions end in 2021 and 2022 is extended by 18 months.” And we can only imagine what that means in the case of fracking. I repeat, we have discovered that the Government has planted this in the PKP9, an intervention law dealing with the epidemic. As soon as the government in Slovenia took over Janez Janša's government and set the line to protect the nature of strongly hostile ministers, such as Zdravko Pozvalšek and Andrej Vizjak, we announced that the Ascent Resources Corporation could hope that their lobbying, pressures and threats with lawsuits would produce fruit. As in the case of an attempt to amend the Water Act, the Government wants to mask the restrictions as environmental concerns. But the recent outcome of the referendum on water proves how underestimating these attempts are. The government concluded yesterday's visit to Prekmurje with a public tribunal in Lendava. What did you tell the people there, the congregation councillors, who invited us to ban fracking? Did you sell them the lies again about not being a real cracking game in Petisovci? Yes, the municipality of Lendava called on the Government and all of us in the National Assembly to ban the cracking. People who live there, who will be fracking if we don't ban it, have to live. And with all possible consequences. Not here, they're the ones who, if anything goes wrong, will pay the price with their health by destroying their living environment. We are invited by environmental organisations to ban freaking, we are invited by the Prekmur Civil Initiative to ban freaking. In Slovenia do we really want another Anhove, another total environmental destruction and people who are sick and dying because of the consequences of the environmental disaster? The government and the ruling coalition do not have a resident in Petišovci, Prekmurje and Slovenia as naive, do not underestimate the will of people! The perfect and unconditional ban on freaking in Slovenia is the only solution that anyone can defend that is truly in the interest of protecting the environment, which is in the interest of their own people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Aleš Mihelič, who will present the opinion or opinion from the bench, for an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mr Natašo Sukić is on 27. Ten. 2021 The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. They proposed to supplement Article 6 of the Mining Act by adding a new third paragraph proposing that it would not be possible to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. It is also proposed in the transitional and final provisions that existing permits for research and mining concessions and applications for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons comply with the provisions of the amended law within three months of the entry into force of the adopted law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, since, inter alia, legislation in this area differs from and is adapted to the natural resources of each member, to the methods of acquiring and learning the acquisition technology that has already been used in individual Member States in the past and to the geostrategic and political interests of each member. In most EU countries, large-scale hydraulic fracturing for the exploration and exploitation of shale hydrocarbons is thus regulated. The proposal also provides that the provisions of the amendment should be aligned with those in force for research and mining concessions and applications for authorisation for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Concession acts may be amended, but only in certain cases, if the conditions laid down in the Constitution are met. We don't think this condition has been met. We provide a concrete example of the Regulation granting mining rights to holders of permits for exploration or extraction of mineral raw materials, which has been issued under laws that are no longer in force. The draft law also provides for the harmonisation of existing research licences with the provisions of the draft law, and it should be noted that there are not enough of them at present. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is of the opinion that, in the event of the adoption of the proposed legislative amendments, it would intervene in the legitimate expectations of concessionaires based on their legislative decisions. Such an intervention would be inadmissible only under conditions or only subject to conditions laid down in the Constitution and resulting from decisions of the Constitutional Court. Such an intervention may be disputed because of the protection of the principle of trust in law, which is based on the principle of the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution. In addressing the proposed legislative changes, this is a fundamental question of what priority should be given: public interest or the confidence of affected beneficiaries in law. In this context, it would also be necessary to answer questions as to whether such changes were relatively predictable for concessionaires, i.e. whether the affected individuals could have expected such a change in advance as to the gravity of the changes and the importance of the existing legal situation for the addressees of this provision and the weight and importance of the public interest. The proposal for a law does not contain sufficient justification for interference with legitimate expectations from all those aspects, and we therefore consider that the justification does not take account of all those aspects and is therefore not sufficient. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Well, hello to you all. This time, it's the fifth time on the same subject. They say he's going to third base, but I'm pretty sure he's gonna go to fifth grade today. It's an interesting argument by the government against the law. We constantly weigh rights, but here we weigh the right of a foreign society, which, more or less throughout Europe, must no longer do what it wants to do with us, and on the other hand the rights of the Prekmur population, the Petisovts. And we decide on two constitutional rights: whether an investor can expect a stable and predictable legal environment, and, on the other hand, whether people are residents, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to live in a healthy environment and to have clean drinking water. That's all it's about! And for a precautionary principle, even though caution is not so exposed here, because already scientific findings are that fracking, even if it is carried out with harmful chemicals, is certainly also harmful to the environment. And we will decide that today, respected colleagues and colleagues: whether we will give priority to economic society or we will give priority to the people who live with us. It is interesting, however, how the Government refers to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's decisions, and, at the same time, in the last 18 months as it wishes, of course, when it sees fit, the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is passed on without reflection. The Constitution is not for us to use it when we want it, when it suits us, but for the protection of the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will, as always, support the bill with certainty, absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State and co-worker, welcome! The story of banning or not banning harmful fracking, damaging fracturing is already dragging like a yoke of snake in this country, but everywhere, we have a better example in our neighborhood, and let me read some examples as well. In Europe, a hydraulic break in law was banned by France in 2011 by law number 835 of the French Assembly. This law emphasises that the prohibition is justified by the Environmental Charter and recognizes the precautionary principle. And this Charter on the Environment is part of the French constitutional order, just as we have the constitutional principle of water protection. In 2011, the United Kingdom and the Northern Ireland Assembly agreed on a common thinking that a moratorium would be needed both on land and in the coastal area, because hydraulic fracturing poses environmental and social risks and is not in line with efforts to reduce greenhouse gases. Bulgaria, as a second European country, banned hydraulic fracturing in 2012 and terminated the concession contract at the same time. Although no non-conventional use of hydrocarbons is prohibited in Bulgaria. In the same year, Denmark declared a moratorium on scrapping and began gradually replacing fossil fuels with renewable sources. In the Canadian province of New Brunswick, hydraulic fracturing was prohibited by Regulation 2015/28 and the Netherlands declared a five-year moratorium in 2015 and the decision was based on studies presented by the cabinet of the Dutch Government in 2013 with environmental and social impacts of hydraulic fracturing. The study shows great uncertainty about the effects of drilling in shale deep below the surface and in 2018 Parliament declared the gradual closure of the field in Groningen, one of the largest in Europe, as the consequences of exploitation are no longer socially acceptable. In 2015, the United Kingdom and the Welsh National Assembly confirmed the moratorium on fracturing until it is proven that it is safe both in the environmental sense and from the point of view of public health protection. The government also stated in 2018 that it would not support and issue licences and concessions for hydraulic breaking. With some exceptions – when I say an exception, experimental drilling – Germany has banned hydraulic fracturing in 2016 and is implementing it in accordance with the new energy policy, so this prohibition applies to commercial purposes. They plan that when the North Stream is built, a total ban will follow. In 2017, the Republic of Ireland banned hydraulic fracturing on land and had already adopted a decision a year earlier on the disposal of all oil capacity in five years. In 2019, the State of Oregon prohibited hydraulic fracturing by Law 2626, which in Article 4, specifically states that the prohibition is necessary for the immediate protection of public peace, health and safety. In 2019, the State of Washington also banned hydraulic fracturing under Decree 5145 and in the same year, the Governor of the State of Florida issued an executive order 19/12 to protect the waters and ordered the Environmental Protection Department to take all possible measures to strongly oppose hydraulic fracturing in Florida. In 2017, Scotland also banned hydraulic fracturing. In 2019, in the framework of its powers, England declared a moratorium on breaking on the basis of the report of the oil and gas directorate, which found that it was not currently possible to make progress with certainty and accuracy in terms of the potential and magnitude of the earthquake associated with hydraulic fracturing. I still have this in writing, but in the end I would only say this – that they are doing the same in countries that we do not consider to be examples in Europe; this is Asia — with the difference of China — Latin America, Australia with Evaluation and Africa. And yet in Slovenia, because we were able to be brave in 2011, that we were the first or the first to ban harmful neonicotinoids in the face of terrible pressure and resistance, we cannot even follow others at this point. We can't be the first, the first are the second, we can just follow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much. In Levica, we will, as proponents of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, which prohibits fracking, of course, support. The first reason is that fracking is by no means in the public interest nor in Prekmurje, nor in the inhabitants of Petišov, nor in the inhabitants of Slovenia. Fracking in Petišovci is in the interest of only and only investors in the British corporation, which would there at the expense of the environment, people, nature make profits with fracking. Throughout the world, as we have already heard in the positions of my predecessors, fracking is banned: in 2011 it was banned in France, in 2016 it was banned in Ireland, in 2019 it was adopted in the United Kingdom by a complete moratorium on the implementation of fracking, in 2016 it was banned in Germany for commercial purposes, and in 2012 it was banned in Bulgaria. Why is that? It's no secret. The most famous disasters, environmental disasters by polluting drinking water and so on, are on the other side of the Atlantic, in the United States of America, where this mainly causes hydraulic fracturing, but also the finding of hydrocarbons in shale, such as in Petisovci, leaves irreparable environmental consequences. The most famous example of this type of cracking on the sandstone, on the same stone basis as we have in Petisocves, is the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands, where fracking has caused more and more frequent earthquakes, which have left serious consequences on the buildings in the field. On the basis of evidence of earthquakes, damage to buildings of the local population and fracking, the Dutch Government, in 2018, ordered more than 200 companies producing gas in the Groningen field to stop pumping within four years. First off, fracking causes earthquakes. It's the other way around. Fracking pollutes local water. During the cracking process, a mixture of water and chemicals is injected into the deep well to release the gas. However, the mixture of chemicals used in this process may contain naphthalene, formaldehyde and a number of other volatile organic compounds, and therefore there is a high risk of contamination of drinking water and surrounding water sources in fracking. Fracking also affects the air. Fracking produces refugee emissions that may contain methane, volatile organic compounds, gasoline, tuloin, H2S, which, of course, means that both the environment and the health of the surrounding population are polluted. After all, fracking has a negative impact on the local environment and the landscape, causes erosion and sedimentation, increased risk to aquatic ecosystems due to potential spillage and spillage of chemicals, fragmentation of habitats, loss of coastal areas and reduction of available surface and water levels due to the reduction of local groundwaters. These are all the reasons why fracking is banned all over the world, and it is quite amazing that Slovenia would become a country in 2021 that would allow proven harmful technology in Petišovci, and this is not in any public interest or in the national interest – as we have heard many times before, to obtain domestic reserves of natural gas and so on. I would like to stress that the cracking in Petišovci will be carried out by the British corporation and the interest to carry out this project is only in the hands of its investors, and we will all remain, at the expense of the local population; those who will be put at risk of water pollution, to degrade the environment, to eventually pollute the thermal water around it. We hope, both in Levica and in the fifth place, that this time in the National Assembly, we will have the sense to ban this situation definitively before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act proposes a ban on the extraction of hydrocarbons by means of a cracking method in order to prevent the authorisation of exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. It is a process of breaking rocks by injecting water and chemicals under great pressure from the well, but it can have harmful effects on the environment and also on human health. In New Slovenia, we have said many times that the issue of hydraulically broken rocks and consequently the negative impact on the environment and health of people should be solved by profession and not by politics. The use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities under pressure is already limited by environmental legislation, since an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus must be carried out before such an operation begins. The European Parliament resolution and 2012 on the effects of shale gas and oil on the environment also confirms that this is an expert issue in which all environmental, public health and climate change impacts need to be checked. According to expert Miha Valentinčič of Geoenergo, the process of breaking the layers of sandstones, which are used in the extraction of oil and gas in Petišovci, is mistakenly compared to the hydraulic treatment of large-scale shale, or cracking, such as in the United States of America, where hard geological structures are involved and a large quantity of water with chemical impurities is needed for a successful process. This is a huge burden for the environment. But when we talk about geological structures in Prekmurje, where sandstones with poor gas flow are involved, we need a significantly smaller amount of water that has minimal environmental impact. In addition, chemical impurities have recently been replaced by natural materials. In Germany, the process of breaking the layers of sandstones in the law has been defined as conventional fracturing and is lawful under law, while the process of breaking the layers of harder shale rocks is defined as so-called unconventional cracking and is prohibited. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of the interference with the already acquired rights of the sole concessionaire for oil and natural gas, as the contract expires on 28 May 2022. Without a legally binding environmental permit, the hydraulic cracking of stones will not be possible until then. The Government also considered the text of the bill to be inappropriate, allowing all other media to be injected. In addition, injecting a certain amount of water with additives is an essential component of oil and natural gas production, as well as drilling of wells. The deep drilling of wells, such as well as wells drilled for geological and geomechanical research, is carried out with a flush that lifts twisted particles and maintains the stability of the well. For the sake of all the above mentioned Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! A healthy environment, environmental protection and human security and their right to a clean environment will always be put first in the SAB Group. Our efforts have always been focused on this, with the right to drinking water being enshrined in the Constitution in 2016. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act in the National Assembly is now under consideration for the fifth time. This clearly reflects our position: fracking must be prohibited! The re-investment of the law does not mean defying or persuading the government, but simply insisting on legalizing a solution that can have a far-reaching impact on the population of northeastern Slovenia and which people deserve. The harmfulness of fracking technology recognizes an increasingly large part of Europe. It's not an assumption that it's harmful, it's a fact. Its effects are reflected in various environmental impacts. There is an increase in seismic activity, possession, water pollution, if I only mention some. The Secretary of State has already stressed in the initial examinations of the law that took place in 2020 that the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive regulation of the mining sector and will address the area in this package. At the end of last year, the law was last sent to public hearing, but it became complicated. The solution proposed by the Ministry in connection with hydraulic fracturing has already been discussed. In the opinion of the Government, it would already be sufficient to prohibit large-scale hydraulic fracturing, which in practice means that cracking would still be allowed under certain conditions. Thus, in September, it became clear that our disagreement with the content was no longer essential, since the law was rejected at the government meeting. This means that we are at the beginning and that, at any point, the ministries have explained that they are preparing their proposal and that changing the law because of one problem is not rational, we cannot agree. Remember, the exception to cracking in our territory is the British corporation. Arso decided in the administrative procedure, and the Administrative Court stated that it was necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment and obtain environmental consent in order to draw up the gas by hydraulic breaking. Slovenia therefore received a threat from the said corporation by appeal, and procedures for the initiation of arbitration were even initiated in early October. This is a kind of absurdity, since the country legally implements the rules on environmental protection and human health, and it can be understood that the corporate behaviour does not wish to continue the procedure. In the SAB party, we therefore propose that Arso conducts ongoing procedures and completes them and completes them at the time of adoption and examination of the law in accordance with the law. We believe the Ministry will send a new version to the National Assembly. On 25 October 2021, on the last debate on the Mining Act, State Secretary Aleš Mihelič said that the Ministry of Mining had already prepared and put it under consideration. According to him, there is still a government procedure, and then we get the law into the National Assembly. Are we really gonna do that? As mentioned above, the last government version of the law ended its path to government procedure at a government meeting. What or who can assure us that the story will not happen again? That is why in the SAB Group we do not see a problem why we could not address such a pressing issue as the ban on fracking in a separate law and, as soon as possible, legalize the prohibition of this, for the environment extremely harmful methods of hydrocarbon production. Moreover, we believe that this is necessary and, if the Ministry considers that the law is incomplete, because it allows other media to be injected into hydrocarbon production procedures, we propose that it be complemented accordingly or that coalition groups do so on their proposal. The government has considered the law for the fifth time inadequate for further consideration, and the Members of the SAB Group will give their support to it for the fifth time and vote that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Dear President! The National Assembly has voted four times in a bill with the same content, and has again decided that it is not suitable for further consideration. At the last regular October session, of course, there would be a turnaround if the left side of the temple of democracy were not obstructed by the vote. So you don't have to brag about giving four votes. In the Slovenian National Party, we are very interested in what this time vote will bring or whether again one of the candidates will give the initiative to leave the vote. We firmly believe that it is right to prevent the plans of the British drilling company in Petišovci. For we have long observed that the sole interest of the British in profit is one and the only one — nothing else! In high profits, and without any regard for the unspoiled nature and health of our citizens and citizens! We are really more concerned because in our Pomurje, this British society has been trying for some time to get a green light for cracking, which would have negative consequences for the whole of Slovenia. We find it embarrassing that the British demand a dizzy 120 million euros in compensation from Slovenia. This is because they have not been authorised to destroy Slovenia. At the same time, it is argued that they suffered economic damage. If we are smart — which I hope we are — we must by no means agree to the interests of the British, for we should not allow them to take advantage of them in any way in Pomour. Nor should we stay away from the multinationals, which is typical of the Slovenians, and consent to any blackmail on their part. It's hard to deal with them because of your littleness. We may also wonder if the infamous British company would compensate us for the damage caused in the event of an earthquake. We'd certainly be looking for a thousand and an excuse not to make a payment. The British can send their own threats, that's our opinion. I hope the Slovenians are so united that we will not give up on their threats. We find it unacceptable that the British company has greatly deceived its investors and the population in this area of Pomurje. The population of Pomurje in this area has been engaged in agriculture, fisheries, thermal tourism for years and could still be listed. In short, we must first protect our health, which is one and only. It is necessary to preserve, defend the property of the people there against the interests of greed and profitable dirty capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal provides that it is not possible to obtain a permit for mining rights for the use of hydrocarbon by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure and that the proposed text allows other media to be injected. In addition, minimal injection of water with additives is essential in the production of oil and natural gas. Deep drilling, geological or geomechanical research takes place with flushing, which raises neutral particles and maintains the stability of the well. The proposal for a law in Article 2 provides for coordination with the provisions of the amendment to the current permit for research and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. It is possible to amend concession acts if the conditions laid down in the Constitution are met – this is currently not fulfilled. The proposal for a law wants to align existing licences with the provisions of the proposal for a law – no such permits are currently available. The draft law does not provide for the harmonisation of existing licences. If the bill were to seek such harmonisation, the law should adequately address the recovery of the concessionaire's funds, which would affect his acquired rights. When adopting the proposed amendments, we reach out to the rights of concessionaires. The proposal is disputed by the protection of the principle of respect for the law, which follows from Article 2 of the Constitution and the rule of law. The opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that the proposal for a law is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of the rights acquired. It is known that there is currently only one concession in Slovenia for the use of oil and natural gas. This was signed or signed at the time of Drnovskov’s government. This signed concession for the exploitation of oil and gas expires on 28 May 2022. However, without the environmental consent obtained, hydraulic fracturing cannot be carried out. This concession also gives rise to a decision on exploitation and does not state that hydrocarbons are used to inject water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. Such interventions are already limited by environmental legislation. Prior to such an intervention, environmental consensus must be obtained and environmental impact must be achieved, which is mandatory due to environmental interventions and size and scope. Now, at the time of this government, this is already the fifth attempt to deviate from the use of oil and gas and consequently withdraw from the signed concession contract. This contract was signed by the parties, or their predecessors, who wanted it to be stopped. The question is therefore raised whether the main purpose of pointing to the perpetrator is to pay damages as a result of the termination of the contract to that Government or, in particular, to obtain funds from the commission due to the unilateral termination of the contract. In view of all the above, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposals of the law are not suitable for further consideration and that we will not support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before I give my word to the proposer, I'd just like to say which ones are still registered. Rudy Medved, Marko Bandelli, Edvard Paulič, Boštjan Koražija, and then we will continue on the list. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, it is in the public interest that you answer a few questions very precisely today. The SDS party, the main coalition party, also referred in its position to the conclusion of the Ascent Resources agreement on 18 May. Now I'm curious. Tell me very carefully. First time. Why are you 13. 7. Article 9 of the Anti-Korona package states in Article 11 that the validity of mining rights for concessionaires may be extended, for those to whom the contract expires in 2021 and 2022 – this is the case with the Ascent Resources Corporation – for 18 months. At their request, it even appears in Article 11! Thus, if the concessionaire so requests, this contract may be renewed. And I'm wondering if Ascent Resources has already triggered this request. Has he been — respectfully, I hope you listen to me — or has an annex already been signed with the Ascent Resources Corporation without being notified to the public? I'm asking for a serious answer. And there's something else I want to know. How many other concessionaires in Slovenia are there in the field of mining? Since the written formulation is “the validity of mining rights for concessionaires”. So, how many concessionaires are there in mining? Who are the ones who are running the contract in 2021 and 2022? Have any of these already submitted an extension request? And has such an extension been signed? I am asking for answers, for this is what the public must know and cannot hide from the public. Not to mention that anti-Korona packages are not intended for mining, but they are an intervention law that regulates the fight against covid-19 epidemics. So what does this also have to do with the question raised by the Secretary of State, so what does Section 11 have to do with fighting the covid-19 epidemic? My respected colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned in their views today how many countries the fracking is either completely banning or a moratorium has been declared on it. And if we just look at Great Britain, where exactly the Ascent Resources Corporation comes from. In view of the risk of triggering earthquake activities, the British government has banned gas production by means of a disputed hydraulic fracturing technology known as fracking. The reason for the ban that came into force immediately is a new scientific study, I stress the new scientific study that has proved, unequivocally, the link between fracking and earthquake suns. That's what the foreign press says. According to a report from the French press agency AFP, Minister of Enterprise and Energy Andrea Leads, after examining the seismic activity in the Preston New Road area in the northwest of Lancashire, it became clear that it was not possible to exclude future unacceptable effects on the local community. Dear Secretary of State, I hope you hear that! Ascent Resources comes from Great Britain, there is therefore no reason why they cannot do the fracking that corporations and other companies in many countries cannot do, in an increasing number of countries as we hear it. Now this excuse of slates and so on; Groningen, the gas field of Groningen in the Netherlands – the exact same composition of the soil as in Petišovci, no difference. What happened there? There are earthquakes because of the fracking. And also the Dutch government has decided that the moratorium will come into force at any moment, which means that 200 companies, respected and respected, will no longer be allowed to acquire anything by hydraulic fracturing there. Why? Because the Dutch government has stood up for its people, for its environment and not for foreign capital and various corporations and profits. So that's one. Next. You say, relativize, summarize the arguments of the Ascent Resources Corporation as a risk of cracking in the Petišov field, based on the distinction between the implementation of cracking on sandstones and slates and so on. Once again; Greeningen — the same composition of soil, earthquakes, environmental devastation — the government has done just as any responsible government should. It doesn't matter which one; left or right doesn't matter. It does not matter which government signed the contract with Ascent Resources, since it was signed long ago when there were no studies and no such events that later resulted in more and more countries banning the faction. At the time, no one could even know how damaging the cracking method was. And the cracking in Petišovci is not an innocent matter, it is carried out in large depths, I think about 3,000 meters, and imagine if there is an unloved event there, the escape of some chemicals into the groundwater, it is the end of pure drinking water – for the good that is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to which everyone is entitled. You're 13. 7. Article 11 was inserted in the PKP, which is two days after you experienced at the referendum a people's plebiscite decision to keep and keep clean drinking water in every way. There was another marriage, but the message is the same, respected. We're also here defending not only the pure environment, defending the right to clean drinking water for people. We defend people's right to their health so that they can stay in their environment, where they live, so they don't have to move out for things like earthquakes. Next. Now you will probably claim that energy poverty is coming, but respectable and respected, drawing on fossil energy, natural gas by fracking in Petišovci will in no way solve the energy crisis because it is minor; our needs cannot be covered in any way. And worse still, 90 percent of the profits, respected and respected, 90 percent of the profits will go into the pockets of Ascent Resources and only 10 percent of the Republic of Slovenia. Only 10 percent. Now you think there is only one logical reason why the Republic of Slovenia should kneel before the greedy appetites of a foreign corporation. That's the reason I don't see. But I am asking you, and this I am asking you now, that before the debate of colleagues and colleagues is discussed here – I hope everyone is listening well – because I am counting on the fact that we also hear that the Municipality of Lendava finally called us, the Municipality Council of Lendava has asked us to prevent the cracking for God's sake. The people who live there are asking and calling and looking at us and hoping that this will finally happen. I don't know, you were yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was yesterday, had even, I think, some tribune in Lendava. I really want to know how you explained it to people! What are you explaining to them? Why are you kicking them into this? That he might have mentioned it, if we're in other countries. Increasingly, the questions in neighbouring Croatia are whether there are earthquakes in Petrinja – and Zagreb is shaking – as a result of fracking. For beside Petrinka lies the oil field where they do freaking, and there has been a lot of shaking of the ground lately; never before, if at all! People are dying, houses are collapsing, Petrinja is devastated. Zagreb was shaking, and Zagreb suffered a great deal of damage. While there is no evidence of this, so far respected and respected, that this is linked to fracking, but it is not excluded that it is not, as interesting Petrinja is located right near a field where fossil energy is obtained from cracking, such as in Petišovci. Last but not least, the big conference in Glasgow has just ended, our minister has gone there, talked about how to decarbonize everything, how to fight climate change, but, excuse me, one move is not to kick in the pursuit of fossil energy to end it. There is no reason for this in Petišovci, my dear. The sites are almost exhausted, there's almost nothing there anymore. What is more, I would like to welcome some unconscious corporation, which has afforded even shameful, discarding pressure on the former minister, even threatened him! Respectable and respected, officer, the minister was threatened by a corporation! This is as if one of you, for example, to Minister Viszak, would have threatened the same corporation if you had so firmly said no to them as Minister Leben did at the time. So I really ask for answers first: What is this PKP9 for? How many mining concessionaires do we have? Has any of the concessionaires already requested an extension of 18 months? Is such an annex already concluded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. They'll come forward when they think it's necessary. That's voluntary, mate. I give my word to Ambassador Rudi Medved, and he will be followed by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Fifthly in the opposition, we are proposing a complete ban on fracking or hydraulic fracturing in the territory of Slovenia. Five! Look, and if we have to, we're going to put in six, seven, eight, so long that everyone in this House realizes that we're right. That we are right, this is a daily development around the world, as the list of countries that have already done so is constantly extending, virtually every day. Fifthly, I say, we are stubborn and in the LMŠ we will continue to stand firm for the fact that human health and the provision of a healthy living environment for us in the first place and the ban on fracking is a step in this direction. In all this time, however, we have heard from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that this law is not necessary because the Government will systematically regulate these matters. But of course, this system law is gone, we haven't seen it, we don't know how to fix it. Now don't even talk about any systemic law anymore. The government's reasons, to put it bluntly, are ridiculous. One of them is that countries have different arrangements in this area. Yes, of course they do! Of course they do, because that is exactly what we are talking about, and it has been repeatedly said today, which countries, even within the European Union, have already decided to ban completely. Of course, there will be no system law if the PKP9 solves the matter. Once the concessions are extended by 18 months, this problem is resolved; that is, in the anti-korona package. All these packages related to the epidemic and to the Flossules on life-saving, as Minister Restovalšek has often said, which he has, of course, forgotten to say is also about saving profits. In this case, if the concessions are extended, it is certain. For example, to save the profits of a foreign multinational, who is at home in Britain, is a British multinational, and at home in Britain they are unable to crack. Why? Because the United Kingdom banned him. And the garlic on the cake of these government excuses is after a new reference to the constitution. A reference to the constitution! The government, which has violated and violated the Constitution so many times in this half-second year, is, of course, impossible to count, but has now found a constitution and trust in the rule of law is therefore against this law. But read article 72 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right under the law to a healthy living environment. And the State is concerned about a healthy living environment; to this end, the law lays down the conditions and methods for carrying out economic and other activities. It's all science. This 72nd Article of the Constitution is, of course, a strong foundation, a strong support for the content of this law. Well, if you don't want to settle this by marriage, you can either adopt the regulation or you can make a decision. What's it cost you, because you're only ruling with regulations and decrees anyway, and you're going to sort this out. How did you explain this to people during your visit to Prekmurje — many times today? Whether you have been asked or not, I do not know, even though you have reported this visit on a long and extensive basis. But in Lendava Municipality, they made it clear to this government that they were anti-fracking. That they're anti-fracking. If even this time they asked the Minister what it was like, and if they have satisfied with the answer that the Minister of Infrastructure Prekmurje has in his heart, if they have satisfied with this answer, then God help us. He may already have Prekmurje in his heart, but he has a heart condition — that is, the sound of his heart. And cracking is the noise of the heart. That's why I think it's high time, well, to end this saga and, in the fifth attempt, to adopt this law, which is primarily designed for human health and a healthy living environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Aleš Mihelič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. Of course, I am always happy to answer questions, at least one explains. But it's a little unusual for a person to approach you directly and ask you to speak to him immediately. Maybe it's in the rules of procedure and practice, but I haven't noticed it yet. However, I will be happy to answer her questions to the proposer, Mrs Sukič. Why is the extension for the period when concessionaires can extend their concession contract for mining rights to the PKP? This law was adopted by the National Assembly at that time. The proposer followed this proposal with a view to making a number of concessionaires – and I will include a number of other questions, i.e., how many of them – more than 200, 90 of them have already submitted an application to extend concession rights, including Geoenergo. An extension of 18 months was for a simple reason — when you say that it had nothing to do with the cobbler. He's got it! When it is necessary to carry out the whole procedure – you have certainly looked at what they are – including spatial acts, municipal acts, as well as other procedures requiring either public participation or other procedures that were impossible to perform during the course of the visit due to restrictions. The latter refers to companies or concessionaires which have all the relevant documentation in progress and have been relatively far away, which could not be carried out and could not be limited due to covid restrictions. This, of course, was also the reason for allowing them to obtain this in these additional months. However, it is such a time frame that will certainly help those who have been preparing very far and will certainly not help those who have not done anything by then. In doing so, I would like only two more corrections, which was highlighted in the presentations. There are no slates in Petišovci, which was exposed to the Left, and one of the members of the Group pointed out that hydraulic fracturing had been prohibited in France; it was not prohibited, it was only regulated. So some segments are banned and others are regulated. So much for now. I think I answered everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukić wants the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Just for a quick comment. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, but the public still does not know the answer to whether an annex to the Ascent Resources contract has been concluded on request. Geoenergo, you said he filed a request. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is given by Boštjan Koražija and will be discussed by the Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. It is clear, as already stated in the positions and also on behalf of the proponent of this law, that we are essentially talking about a law that not only fights against this fracturing, but against pollution, in fact against the climate crisis, against a truly unhealthy environment or against the degradation of the environment in which Prekmurci or Pomurci currently live. I'll take my turn. Yes, in fact – the gentleman mentioned earlier about this slater, in fact he is a sandstone, yes. As far as fracking is concerned and that is the fact, fracking essentially contributes enormously to the climate crisis. Now, if we want — and in fact, a lot of experts to weigh or propose, explain and also require that fossil fuels that remain in the earth or in those fingers — simply stay simply because of the fact that there is no greater pollution of the environment and the air and even worse climate crisis that we are already witnessing and that we are actually experiencing. I will also associate myself with this visit by the Government and the President of the Government in Pomour when he explains that he is surprised or worried that there are fewer births or that Pomuri or Prekmurje are only, as it were, domestically speaking — yes, people are moving out or looking for better jobs, better conditions for life. In such a case, when it comes to fracking, and it is also actually people living there, even in Petišovci, who have made it clear and also demanded that the matter does not continue, it is also one of these factors that actually enable or apply these numbers. So people are leaving because of the degraded environment itself, which is, or would become, because of the fraking. In fracking, the problem is also the effect of hydraulic breaking on water or on the very quality of groundwater or drinking water. Now, you know, when you actually inject yourself into this sandstone, you also inject toxic substances like naphthalene, formaldehyde and a lot of other volatile organic compounds. And if we go in order. Formaldehyde is actually one of the most cancerous allergens and can actually damage the genetic material of cells and even trigger processes that can actually lead to cancer. Then naphthaline at higher concentrations, mainly at ingestion, causes damage to and away from red blood cells, including changes in genetic material. And then we're still here, and we can continue with the arsenic and the rest of the stuff. And when it comes to fracking and talking about Petisovci, when the whirlwinds are about 3,000, 500 meters underground, it is actually very likely that there will be, or there will already be, pollution of groundwater or groundwater. And here, when it comes to the safety of all people living there, or even this health aspect, or this nature-protection aspect, in any case, it would be necessary to stop fracking as soon as possible. Even the fact that these big hard-core companies, or even the companies that come to us to do this cracking, if they could really do it anywhere, could also do it at home. But not really. Don't you? And that's that aspect again that I'm going to have to tell us, I'm going to let us think that unfortunately enough of the time we're the target of these diverse grandeurs, or even the harshness that actually devastate the environment and cause this climate crisis or climate crisis even more. Then we can move on. The huge effects of this hydraulic fracturing then also affect the air and also the warming of the atmosphere. And this is again, in fact all aspects of this fracking speak against fracking; it is said against fracking and that this cracking should in fact no longer be an option to acquire these hydrocarbons. What we could actually say about this subject is, in fact, that, as previously said, people have made it clear that they do not want to live in a fracting environment; that fracking not only has a strong impact on their quality of life, but especially on their health. And when we are always talking here in the National Assembly about how, what, when, to whom and why, we are basically all really here in the name of the people, it is said in the name of people that we help them or that we also allow them, in the case of this fracking, even the Petisovians, to protect them and to enable them to better living conditions, especially not only better living conditions, in fact a better future. In fact, under this fracking, or just under this fracking debate, we can talk about the aspects arising from this, the height and the length, and actually come to the same conclusion that cracking should not be carried out in the environment where it takes place. Not in Slovenia at all, given that it also has an additional impact on all other factors, such as tourism and things that are happening in Pomurje or Prekmurje and are at a very high and quality level. As it is said, this fracturing should be completed, completed, or banned. This needs to be made clear — forbidden! Easy. Because if we really want to and when we are talking about climate change and climate fractures or climate failure, then this is one of the very big factors affecting climate change; in this environment, in particular, it is wider. Because this hydraulic fracturing, which is happening, also releases huge amounts of methane into the air, and as a result, as has already been said, it affects many things, and unfortunately also causes serious health problems, which can also end and unfortunately end with death. Once again I appeal, I think we should all show someone here – yes, but clearly state and indicate that this matter must be banned, closed. If we really want to continue to have a green, sustainable and, above all, an ecological, healthy environment in Slovenia, we can start here. And then we will go on to do in Slovenia what we actually represent ourselves on the outside or abroad – that we are a green country and that we are, as we have already said, also healthy or that we are living in an environment that should be healthy, but in this case, we must heal it. The ban on fracking is the beginning of the path to environmental recovery and all these climate changes that are taking place.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, he'll be followed by Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. By the way, maybe it's just like a lesson. In fact, the government comes here because Members and Members of Parliament have questions and answers them. The government does not come here to ask Members and Members of Parliament. Members of Parliament have also elected the government and Members in accordance with our powers, we exercise control of the government – but only so, a little more theoretically. Dear Members and Members, we are in this room before a bad year ago, this is in December, sitting, as Mr Dusan Shisko has already said, we have already had four attempts before. Unfortunately, we were not in the hall for some other reason, "we sat down and there was a vote – I hope today will be different – 41 for, 41 for. It was interesting that when I talked to individual Members sitting on the right side, with any of them coming from Prekmurje or Pomurje, how was that, was the answer yes, because the Government, the Secretary of State promised to come with a better system law immediately and then we will solve what we are talking about because it is necessary for Prekmurje, Pomurje, Slovenia as a whole. Of course, I have a habit that trust is better, but control is even better – this is the old German proverb – I immediately wrote a question I have already read to you, Mr Secretary of State, in this National Assembly. I was quoting your words, and then the government's answer came, yes, we gave it to the public. So, December last year. While there I experienced a severe disappointment; fracking was suddenly no longer fracking, but it was a big and small cracking. Then the last sentence was horrendous in truth, “we will allow limited and controlled implementation of hydraulically broken because we do not expect harmful consequences for man, life”. [[…]] And so on. You know, that's a terrible sentence. That, Mr. Secretary of State, if you're looking for an answer, that's an answer with 23. 12. 2020 to question 18. 12. Why, though, do we want to protect the environment in truth? Because when the environment is protected, it looks the other way. You don't want to see if you have reliable evidence that what you're doing is dangerous. Where they had been banned so far, they had followed a reverse course; that is, they had applied the so - called precautionary principle. Some call it the precautionary principle or the principle of reasonable doubt. All three words or expressions have a similar meaning. At a time when there is a reasonable doubt in the country which is affected by citizens and citizens, they react to the environment. Let me remind you again: Slovenia has already been able to do this with the unanimous support of this House, probably the first in Europe to be the first in the world. In fact, we have been facing a multinational, even facing the European Food Safety Agency, because we have said, look, there is indeed some doubt that one specific poison, which is widely used, is dangerous. We were fortunate enough to have her back us up a few months later, so France did the same, and then some other countries. At European level, however, it was interesting that the country, which also banned it very quickly, Germany, had blocked the ban at European Union level. Why? Because the manufacturer was from there, but in the end there was a ban at the level of the European Union. I'm saying this so we don't look too naively at the world. When we ask ourselves how it is banned in the UK and how it comes from where it is banned, it comes to Slovenia. See what the indications were in the countries where the cracking was banned. They referred to a policy of reducing pollution and endangering the fundamental rights of the population; that is, the right to a healthy and secure environment and the known consequences for the environment, habitats and health of the population. The United Kingdom stated that “hydraulic fracturing poses an environmental and social risk, ” referring to the risk, although some studies have gone a long way, but still use the diplomatic term risk, which is sufficient to activate the precautionary principle. presents a risk “and is not in line with efforts to reduce greenhouse gases”. [[…]] [[…]] In addition, they wrote, “until proven” – they went a step further – “that it is safe both in the environmental sense and in the position of health protection, there will be a moratorium”. So they've gone one step further until it's proven harmless. For example, they wrote similarly that it is not currently possible to predict with certainty and precision the potential and magnitude of the hydraulic fracturing earthquake. This is what Mrs Natasa Sukič was talking about. I received an interesting answer to such a question. The answer was – what the Secretary of State has also indicated today – that where we have information that fracking is prohibited, fracking is not in fact prohibited; but for one country and for another country. It is interesting that then we asked again through political parties – otherwise we cannot because we are the opposition – as well as NGOs have asked and we have received confirmation of our allegations. But since it is, of course, an indication whether or not it is prohibited in Germany or not, whether it is prohibited in Bulgaria or not, the data shows that it is prohibited in its entirety. Is he in France? So that there will not be another political decision between us at the level of information, we who believe that reasonable doubt is to be fully taken into account – of course it must be taken into account! If you think it is necessary to prove that it is harmful, this is a completely different approach. It is possible, even where it is used, but in Europe, where it is prohibited, they follow the precautionary principle, i.e. reasonable doubt. And I have taken the initiative of the Ministry of Infrastructure to organise an international expert consultation to which experts from Germany, France, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland are also invited, and so on, to clarify the reasons for the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, i.e. fragmentation, and how it was banned. Just so that there is no difference between us when we talk here and on the government side at the level of basic information. This initiative was given in April. I got an answer. The initiative was given in March, I received an answer in April, but there was no realisation. You know, if this really was a good intention to do something, then it would react and it might prove to us that the information we receive as the opposition is not accurate, although it is accurate, because also government resources in some countries confirm that I'm not saying that there are malicious people on the government side, but obviously we have a noise in information, data, and we haven't come so far as to make it clear. [[…]] Once again, we have a reasonable suspicion that is sufficient reason to protect us. Now that, like Prekmurec, don't mind me. Prekmurje is as big as looking at Berlin, about 900 square kilometers, Berlin I think 850, the population is of course very different, but the size is here somewhere. Slovenia is small and if large countries do not hope to afford such experiments, one harmful event in a small country threatens the whole country. We need to be more careful in small countries, not less. Therefore, it is my request that we simply do what they have done in Germany, France, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and that we simply prohibit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. The fact that we have to invest five times in the National Assembly before we can hope for success is very fair. It is consistent for two entirely different reasons. Firstly, in Levica we take our commitments to a healthy environment, efforts against the climate crisis really. We will insist on this, we will not give up, we will stick to this principle for the past seven years, we will continue with it in the next coalition structure and, as the debates in today's cracking ban initiative show, this is a point around which the next coalition can find itself and with common powers protect the environment, reduce redundancies and so on. Secondly, a slightly less cheerful and encouraging fact is that so far we have not collected the necessary quantities of votes to actually ban fracking. And the damaging consequences of fracking are so indisputable that many in other countries have even banned it — a company that drills and works in Petišovci, is equally forbidden to do in the UK — despite all this, there are still government representatives defending the practice; and in June, 90 percent of all profits will be paid off by foreign multinationals. It will flow abroad; Slovenian citizens and citizens will have nothing, or more, in Prekmurje they can hope to increase earthquake risk, increase poor human health and so on. The dilemma we face should not really be a dilemma. So, on the one hand, we have a multinational corporation that would ignore the environmental and health impacts of drilling, conduct hydraulic fragmentation for its own profits and the needs for investor profits, and on the other hand, we have real sustainable development, environmental conservation and targeted political efforts to prevent climate damage. As it is said, this dilemma should not be a dilemma at all. In Levica, of course, we will support the initiative to ban fracking. We hope that if it didn't go to the third and didn't go to the fourth, it would go to the fifth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Primoz Siter has the word, and Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will get it after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. Already the fifth attempt or the fifth such action of something on those sides of the Luje would say no-brainer, because therefore we have three main reasons, at least I personally see, in the area of the ban on fracking. First of all, let me be a little hippie. Fracking is a very invasive intervention into the environment, into the earth. At the final stage, this region of Prekmurje, which lives off the ground, also appreciates it most quickly, understands that the earth is actually a source of food, water, everything they need; not only there, but also, as I say, the eater of the whole country. Thus, from this point of view, a purely moral and practical point of view, of course, one such invasive intervention is merely meaningless. Then the second thing; it's a very important point. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you've noticed, but we're in the middle of a climate crisis. The main problem, the main cause of the climate crisis, is fossil fuels, and when we talk about fracking, we are talking about fossil fuels. All advanced societies, all responsible countries avoid the production of fossil fuels, go in the opposite direction, seek alternatives in sources that are sustainable: in the sun, in the wind and so on. Fossil fuels are a matter of history. And the third thing. Consequently – I come from Zasavje and know very well what fossil fuel production means for the local environment. Prekmurje, like Zasavje, is a very specific environment. The extraction of fossil fuels, however, is already completely destroying the environment with its technology. When this environment is destroyed, however, there is only a major problem in this type of local environment, since such a community begins a new or new search for its identity. He wonders what we want, and since Prekmurje is so beautiful and attractive today, I can't imagine what would happen to him after one such destruction and what Prekmurke and Prekmurek should do. In short, for the sake of profiting only from direct exploiters, we must not allow one such invasive form to be left to the detriment of public health, to the detriment of the environment, to the detriment of the social image of the region. As I have done four times, I will also support five times the proposal to ban fracking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text was requested by the representative of the proposaler, Nataš Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! To return to concrete arguments and the reasons why it is the only way to protect ourselves in order to protect human health and a healthy environment, a complete ban on fracking. First time. First, I will start with an argument that you will find most abstract, as also mentioned by colleague Primož – fracking has an impact on climate change. But this is what the people of Petišovtev probably don't even care so much about at this point, it concerns him in some perspective, but still. Fracking is a major problem that contributes to climate change, methane leakage; and methane leakage, although there is no agreement on how much methane enters the air when cracking, some studies show that methane leakage can be worse than coal burning. But let's leave. That's just some argument, I'll say, roofing, general, about how to fight climate breaking. The impact of hydraulic breaking on water. The situation here is very worrying. In fact, the mixture of chemicals used in fracking contains naphthaline, formaldehyde and a number of volatile organic compounds, and this creates a risk of contamination of drinking water, the risk of contamination of surface water due to spills and the problem of disposal of waste water. Examples from abroad show that the pollution of groundwater and drinking water caused by fracking is detected in the vicinity of fracking sites. We know that in Petišovci there is a well 3 000 500 meters deep, if there is an event there, the minimal leakage of the spill, that's what I was just telling you about. Hydrological fracturing also has an impact on the air, we said, but this has already been mentioned by colleagues and I will not stop at it – the landscape and ecosystems are certain. Negative effects, though, may cause erosion and sedimentation, increased risk to aquatic ecosystems due to potential spillage and spillage of chemicals, fragmentation of habitats, loss of coastal areas and reduction of available surface and hypooric water quantities due to the reduction of local groundwaters, not to mention the type of stressors that affect the health of wild animals there. We know that the Petišovci, that this is the location, that is near the biosphere area of Mura; the Mura River, which was recognised by UNESCO in 2018 as an extraordinary natural resource and is therefore a unique global measure. I mean, this is really a pearl, one of many of our natural pearls – Slovenia is fortunate to have many natural pearls; I guess we will keep it. Then, of course, there are also several types of waste in the cracking process. Waste generated by drilling and, of course, waste water have the greatest influence. The waste mud produced by drilling, for example, contains toxic ingredients such as barite, as well as hydrocarbons, even radioactive substances and heavy metals. I mean, respectable and respected, well, if fracking results in a minimal leakage of even smaller quantities of hydrocarbons or injected chemicals or other toxic substances into the earth and groundwater, any remedial or remedial measures at these depths are essentially impossible. It is also impossible to predict with certainty where and when harmful effects on the environment, nature, or human health can occur, both underground and on the surface. And that's what my colleagues used to talk about, everyone in a row. For example, I do not know, it is necessary to act in accordance with the precautionary principle and certainly what colleague Šiško stressed: we must not kneel before the capital appetites of foreign corporations. No, we have to protect ourselves! Who's gonna protect us if we don't? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proponents will be given the floor. Anybody want a word? Representative of the Government, Secretary of State Aleš Mihelič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I owe two more answers, which was the case with Geoenergo. Well, there's not a decision yet. Only 90 applications were submitted and no decisions were made. At the same time, I'd be rounding up France. In France, there is a prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, where water for hydrocarbon extraction and hydraulic fracturing are allowed for the use of geothermal energy. So it's regulated, it's not forbidden. Of course, I also have to respond to the observation. Of course, I am not avoiding any of the answers that Mr Jew highlighted. It is just that we have a certain time and after a few Members I am trying to respond as much as possible to Members at the same time. But it's an unusual approach. I'm surprised that you support this, that someone approaches the government's representative and demands that he come forward immediately. But it's okay, I'm happy to answer, and I'm definitely not avoiding it. So, the system law is in government procedure, and I hope it will be in the National Assembly as soon as possible. He will address more or less all these things that have been exposed today, and I believe we will also get the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Procedural? Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you. I wouldn't want to mention something I didn't do. In fact, I just warned you that the MP asked from the bench, which is shown in the magnetogram and also in the video. It is true that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a representative of the Government may, but may not, reply, as this is not a committee. On the other hand, it is a matter of good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I think the procedure has run quite well so far. The discussions were also correct. I therefore propose that we continue to give the floor to the representatives of the candidates, Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. See, in a way, I am saddened by the fact that there has been silence in coalition benches, that there have been virtually no debates, and it also tells its own. He probably says that Members and Members, I don't know if they're running from these facts because they have to run; as has been seen, for example, from the SDS point of view, they rely on contracts with Ascent Resources to end next May next year. But I don't know if they either noticed this plant in PKP9, and we all ran into this mine on July 13th last year, two days after the Water Referendum, where, as we see, the government opens up the possibility of allowing all concessionaries, including Ascent Resources, to extend the concession for 18 months at their request. This would mean in the case of Ascent Resources, if we calculate that their concession would be withdrawn by 2024. Do you know what kind of danger this is? And only by law that prohibits fracking can we ever, once and for all, prevent all kinds of play, play to the detriment of people. And not only to the potential harm of people's health, you're playing with people's lives. For if earthquakes or poisoning occur, say, water or anything, air, people will simply lose their lives. I don't think any responsible policy should allow it; not the left, not the right, not the middle, not any. In short, I repeat myself, but I must stress once again: there is no safe cracking; there is no big and small cracking. Fracking, as we have proven, is potentially extremely dangerous, an exception harmful. The example of Groningen, where the soil structure is the same as in Petišovci, tells us everything. Earthquakes in Petrinja give us reason to believe that this may already be happening there. In short, no one can guarantee that in the depths of the garden nothing can be broken, which will actually lead to the leakage of toxic substances, groundwater pollution and drinking water pollution, and thus to human health. No one can guarantee that there will be no earthquakes. You can't guarantee this! Unfortunately, you can't, because if this fracturing occurs, of course, there have been only experimental drilling – I think twice – but once it takes place on a regular basis, respected and respected, all of this can probably happen. Even if it is unlikely, we simply cannot afford it! And it is only by law that we can end this story for the good of the people, for the good of the public interest, and not for the good of some exploitative corporation that has even afforded to threaten the former minister. That's what we should be saying by now, all the alarms should be ringing! This is simply unacceptable. A corporation that, in the event of a fracturing operation, has cashed 90 percent of the profits, jobs will virtually not be available to our people. He won't! I don't even understand the logic of this. What does Slovenia have, apart from a very large threat, a very large environmental impact and consequences for human health? Not to mention that it will destroy really a lot of things in Prekmurje, which is a province of some opportunities, has a wonderful biosphere area of Mura, has increasingly developed thermal tourism, agriculture and so on. This is our grain of this country after all. And as a fellow Jew said, one such terrible event in a small country will have severe consequences not only for the local population, but for all of us. The people of Lendava are calling for us to ban the fracking, and the municipal world has invited us. Yes, and they live there, respected and respected! We can't red tape their lives here and expose them to danger. Let us listen to them, let us listen to them, and let them walk in. Unfortunately, we are the legislators who make decisions about these things, and it is in our hands whether we protect them or leave them alone; whether we bow down to a foreign corporation or have some attitude and not let ourselves be blackmailed. Again: There is no safe fracking and the only way is a marriage ban on fracking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate is not yet in progress, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I find that there is no interest, so I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disability and Survival. The draft law was tabled by a group of 22 Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordis. With regard to this bill, a group of 22 Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] May I have some peace in the hall? In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mihu Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Single parent households in this country are considered to be one of the so-called vulnerable groups, of course perfectly justified. As soon as we look at only naked statistics, we find that one fifth of single parent households live below the poverty risk threshold. Especially are these poor single - parent households where children in these households do not receive a parental allowance, are usually fathers, and are talking about single mothers with children. The state has already anticipated so much hardship and non-payment of subsistence, but it has regulated the area in such a way that it is very difficult to obtain the so-called subsistence allowance. In the event that an agreed child does not receive an agreed maintenance allowance, the mother must submit herself to the search for her right by judicial means. Before exercising the right to compensation for maintenance, it is necessary to initiate recovery, through a difficult judicial procedure, so that the court documents at the maintenance fund can at all prove that its maintenance was not paid. And then the procedures go forward. That's very problematic in the concept. The country is the one, the social state is the one that should protect the weaker side always and everywhere in every conflict. Here it is left to single mothers, their children, to deepen into the field and to deal with an area for which they often do not have the time, not only with psychosocial capacity in the context of social distress. Unless we stress in particular how very psychologically exhausting the case is in court, through which a mother must go with a child who has been deprived of a child, because she must face her former partner directly in this trial. These partners are often violent, exploit the situation, do not pay maintenance by evading and seeking loopholes in legislation, terrorising the beneficiaries and so on. We therefore propose that the procedure be substantially simplified in Levica. The maintenance allowance may be applied by our proposal in a way that simply turns directly to the maintenance fund, where it proves in all ways that it can, by means of bank statements, with other documentation, that the maintenance has not been paid in certain dimensions and then the fund shall, without being referred to the court, issue a decision on the basis of which such mother of the single parent also applies the allowance to the maintenance. Another problem related to the current structure is the fact that a single-parent household does not receive maintenance, the social work centre treats the income of such a household as if maintenance on the TRR of this household has actually occurred and for this amount, which no child has ever seen, reduces the amount of financial social assistance that this household is entitled to. And the pressure is double. First of all, they're running out of maintenance. Secondly, financial social assistance, which could at least help them in such a situation, is reduced and not paid at the level that it could or should be. We are also solving this by means of our law in the way that the decision of the Maintenance Fund has been issued faster and directly, without difficult judicial proceedings, the basis on which the Centre for Social Work can prove very quickly that the maintenance has not been paid and therefore the full right to financial social assistance can be exercised. Unfortunately, it has been the logic of the Slovenian social state for several years now that it has blocked itself as a bureaucratic maze, with the priority of dissuading people from exercising their rights instead of helping them. At least in a small area for single mothers, in the area of unpaid maintenance, we want to help and establish a social state as their guardian, not their scribe.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Your Honor! We Social Democrats are similar to the proposal to amend legislation, which provided for the simplification and acceleration of procedures to introduce the right to maintenance compensation in September this year on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Unfortunately, the proposal of three novels, which would improve the social security of families and reduce the material and psychosocial distress of children whose parents do not pay for maintenance, did not receive the necessary majority support on the parental committee. Therefore, the legislative procedure was closed at that time. At that time, the Committee's discussion showed that it would be necessary to fully regulate the system governing maintenance and its recovery in the event of non-payment. We continue to assess that this time the proposed amendment of legislation would also present a first step to facilitate the administration of the right to a subsistence allowance. We will therefore support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. In view of the current arrangement, the legal representative of the child who wishes to enforce the right to a maintenance allowance must first try to recover the maintenance from the parent who is obliged to pay it. Only then can the child’s guardian apply for maintenance compensation if he has failed to recover or if the recovery process lasts more than three months. Already in September, we stressed that in most cases it is a mother who, because of her divorce from her spouse, is already in a difficult material and psychosocial situation, and many of them are victims of domestic violence. In doing so, NGOs dealing with this issue point out that in such cases, non-payment of subsistence is also a form of economic violence that can take a long time after the victim has broken all ties with his former violent spouse or partner. In practice, it has already been shown several times that legal guardians of children already know in advance that they will not succeed in enforcement, because the parent who should pay for maintenance, either hides income or assets, is unemployed or has lower incomes than can be cut by enforcement. In individual cases, a parent who does not pay for maintenance is even homeless, imprisoned or moved abroad to an unknown address and simply cannot be found. Non-payment of maintenance has direct negative consequences on the material and social situation of children. In low-income families, non-payment may also result in severe material deprivation of a child’s basic necessities of life. Therefore, the procedure for obtaining compensation in the case of unpaid maintenance should be simplified. Legislation is too complex and bureaucratic recovery procedures are too long for those who have to live with minimum income and need maintenance to provide food or clothing for their child. That's how we're gonna back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Hello! Allow me to begin with the story: “I went pregnant with my partner apart because he was violent. We arranged maintenance in court because he wouldn't give up on the kid. In our country, it's possible that the judge wrote in her decision that she would pay me for maintenance. And then it started! He didn't want to pay because he wasn't supposed to give me money for my needs. At first he brought diapers and clothes, which was fine with me, and I was satisfied. After one year, he did not visit the child, and he also brought nothing, even less so as to direct or bring money into his hands, as he created his great family. Five years later, I didn't get a single allowance. Since our law was written to protect the abusers, I was at the bottom a lot of times, and the maintenance was taken into account in the calculation of the children’s allowance class, the kindergarten subsidy. The children's allowance has reduced my income and increased my pay for kindergarten. After six years, he decided to go. Probably because he had some benefit, some relief. He hasn't seen a kid in years, but not because of me, I've never defended contact. He owes him – because this is a child's right and not mine – about 6,000 euros. Even so, the amount of maintenance is a little over a hundred euros, which is absurd at all, the child costs a lot more. Now he's actually living with my new husband, who we've been with for a long time. Let me add why I didn't go into execution, you'll ask – because he's a bully! I'd rather sleep peacefully, even though we didn't have enough to eat. The knife on my neck was enough once. Thank you for your efforts. I hope these things change radically. For some women it is impossible to put into effect, unfortunately,.” It's just one of the stories we got. Single-parent households are one of the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia. Under the risk of poverty, every fifth single - parent household lives. Maintenance in Slovenia is given extremely low. A total of 3 000 500 beneficiaries receive maintenance, set at less than 20 euros, 12 000 500 have maintenance below 80 euros, 33 000 500 receive maintenance below 120 euros. After the breakup of the partner community, care for children is, of course, taken over by women in 80 percent, and fathers are obliged to pay for their livelihoods. The currently established system of payment of maintenance only further deepens the unequal power relationship between the former partners, as it fully places the burden and responsibility for recovery of unpaid maintenance on the shoulders of mothers who are already entrusted to the care and upbringing of young children. One of the main problems of the Slovenian maintenance system is the inefficient and complex process of obtaining maintenance compensation. The public scholarship, development, disability and maintenance fund, under the current legislation, does not begin to pay the maintenance allowance until an application for non-payment of subsistence allowance has been made by the maintenance beneficiary. At the same time, the system allows an anomaly where maintenance is considered to be income in the exercise of social assistance and other rights even if other parents do not pay it at all, as we have heard from the opening statement. The current way of applying for maintenance compensation is controversial because it puts the responsibility for regulating the situation on the parent who is generally in a difficult material and psychosocial situation or even on the child himself if he is 18 years of age and is a regular school. In addition, the enforcement process, which is a condition for eligibility for maintenance compensation, is extremely complex and requires enormous energy and knowledge from the creditor, which is, in other words, without a legal adviser, which, of course, costs something, is often not possible at all. In Levica we propose a system in which the state protects the weakest; a system that does not deepen the unequal power relations between individuals; and a system in which the state is actually the mediator between the weakest and the stronger. The proceedings before the court are, as a rule, long-lasting and exhausting. They are especially burdensome in cases where a child is suing a parent and when there is even domestic violence. Therefore, in the case of non-payment of subsistence allowances, we propose that children be made easier to make their way to compensation and allow for social transfers in the amounts they belong to, even without a judicial path. We therefore propose that the current requirement for proof of non-receipt of maintenance, which is a proposal for enforcement, be deleted from the compulsory evidence in the lodging of a claim for maintenance compensation and that the beneficiaries be given the opportunity to prove with other evidence to prove themselves before a court after the current regulation. At the beginning of the procedure, however, the Maintenance Fund should assume the burden of recovery of unpaid maintenance and of accompanying excruciating judicial proceedings. Thus, maintenance beneficiaries will not need to face direct confrontation with the debtor in court in the event of non-receiving maintenance. In this way, we are putting at the outset proof of the State's entitlement to State compensation as an intermediary between the beneficiary and the debtor; as an intermediary between the weaker and the stronger, as an intermediary between the child and the adult. It is the State which is obliged to ensure the exercise of the constitutional right of children, which imposes on parents the duty of survival. As a result, the proposed changes will make it easier for families in which children are entrusted with the protection and upbringing of only one parent to take account of the actual income situation in calculating the amount of eligibility from public funds, which is of course particularly important in determining the amount of financial social assistance that enables families to actually survive in the worst social distress. The proposal is also supported by NGOs, the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, the Legal and Information Centre of NGOs, the Association for Non-Violent Communication and the SOS Phone for Women and Children. The key task of the rule of law, the key task of the social state is to protect the weak among us. Let me finish by listing some of them for you. A teen's mother on a minimum wage; a student who is not wanted by any parent; a primary student who only sees a father on a birthday; a mother who has invested money in court translations instead of a vacation with a child; a child who receives only a Christmas present from a father; a mother of two children who is 50 percent disabled; a primary school girl who has a father who lives in Norway; a mother of a child who has been threatened with a knife on her neck. The proposed changes to maintenance legislation, colleagues and colleagues, would help them. Of course, the decision is in your hands. We will support the proposal in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Aleksander Reberšek, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! We have already rejected a similar bill, which we are considering today, in September. The only change is that the standards already in force in this proposal are still falling in line with the September proposal. Under the current regime, a child or one of the parents may, in the event of non-payment of maintenance, turn to the Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disability and Maintenance Fund to deposit the amount of unpaid maintenance to the child and then recover it from the beneficiary. In doing so, it must demonstrate by one of those documents that the maintenance is not paid. These are a proposal for enforcement, a confirmation by the court of its submission of an enforcement decision, evidence of failure to execute or a certificate by the competent ministry that a recovery procedure has been initiated from abroad. The proposed amendments to these amendments to the law want the maintenance beneficiary not to have to prove the non-payment of maintenance, but could, without any evidence, turn to the maintenance fund. The rest of the work, the recovery of the maintenance of the parent who is obliged to pay for the maintenance, should be done by the fund. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats do not favour the amendment, because we advocate that the state should not interfere with family life, but should, in principle, regulate matters first at the lowest level, i.e. within families. Only when the agreement in the family is not possible and all funds have been used, in our case a request for maintenance payment should the state with the maintenance fund be involved. Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity, the community is bridging the risks that an individual could never solve. The basic forms of solidarity are aid and support in the inner circle of life; first in the family, which is the basic cell of society, then among friends, neighbours and in private communities. The company must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold. We promote the conscious personal responsibility of an individual for his or her own and secure social situation, especially in his or her age. The social security of each individual is therefore responsible for several factors; first, each individual, then his or her family, his or her working and living environment, and lastly, the country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. We will not support the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Maintenance is one of those institutions of family law that is linked in particular to the maintenance situation between children and parents or between spouses or ex - spouses. Most often, we meet her when we divorce a marriage that causes great stress for both parents and children. At the same time, it also means the financial burden on the parent who, after divorce, takes on the majority care of the children, so the maintenance of a large number of caregivers is a burden and most of them can maintain the basic standards of living and the activities on which the child has been used. However, where one parent fails to meet the maintenance obligation, a public maintenance fund shall be placed in the role of the creditor, which shall, before that child or parent, pay the maintenance allowance that he later recovers from the debtor. But for a number of beneficiaries of maintenance compensation, the compensation process is too long, too painful and too expensive. Under the current regime, the beneficiary must first wait for the maintenance liability to not pay the maintenance allowance three times in a row, then submit a proposal for enforcement and wait another three months to be entitled to apply for maintenance compensation. The proposed amendment, which has already been dealt with for the second time in the National Assembly, would simplify this procedure by eliminating the necessary requirement for a maintenance claim, which is currently an enforcement proposal for the recovery of unpaid maintenance. In this way, an easier way is introduced to obtain a refund on the beneficiaries. The latter improves the social security of families who do not receive maintenance due to non-payment by the debtor. As the applicant points out, the application for maintenance compensation will be sufficient to obtain a maintenance allowance and a document containing the applicable enforcement address to which the remaining evidence will be submitted showing that the maintenance was not paid or that the maintenance debtor pays irregularly. The burden of recovery of unpaid maintenance will, therefore, be transferred from the beneficiary to the fund by lodging a claim for maintenance compensation, which has a positive impact on the availability of the refund. The changes will also have a positive impact on those single-parent families eligible for financial and social assistance, as it will facilitate the way towards taking account of the actual income situation when calculating the amount of entitlement to social benefits. The decision of the Fund constitutes evidence in the exercise of rights from public funds at the Social Work Centre that a person does not actually receive a maintenance allowance. At the same time, an article would also be deleted which prevents maintenance compensation from being paid to maintenance beneficiaries who have been given an amount of maintenance less than 8,35 euros by the executive title. In the SAB Group, we consider this small change to be one of the major steps towards the objective of fair treatment of the most vulnerable groups, especially children, as it enables them to have a more carefree childhood or schooling, while at the same time solving a number of social pressures for single parent families. Simplifying and expediting the procedures for obtaining maintenance compensation, thereby increasing the social security of families for the SAB Group clearly constitutes an amendment worth supporting. Members of the SAB will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! A few months ago, on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we discussed the identical novelty of the maintenance law. In its context, simplifications in the process of obtaining a maintenance allowance are proposed, thus ensuring a more appropriate and faster way of exercising the right to compensation in the event of non-payment of subsistence allowances. At that time, the changes did not receive sufficient parliamentary support with a coalition argument that the existing regime was appropriate and unnecessary changes, but those who were then sitting on the Labour Committee and monitoring the views of all stakeholders present could be convinced that the paper was carrying much and that the practice was different from what the law said. At the time of parental separation, the socio-material situation of the beneficiaries of maintenance, i.e. children, deteriorates. Indeed, the reality is that the maintenance in the courts is determined in minimal, almost shameful amounts, and many times their recovery needs to be recovered. Of course, there is already a legal possibility for an enforcement proposal to be tabled, and often before the proposal is tabled, it is known that enforcement will not be successful. They are surprisingly skilled at how they hide their assets, how employers are asked to pay them by hand, how they open accounts abroad, and how they transfer the property of their more visible properties and properties to other people. Such facts as we are witnessing, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are convinced that the changes to the maintenance law, which removes the necessary condition for obtaining a replacement for maintenance, which is currently an enforceable proposal for recovery of unpaid maintenance, are necessary. An application for a maintenance refund would, following a new one, be sufficient to obtain a refund with the applicable enforcement address and other supporting evidence showing that the maintenance was not paid. It is true that this will further burden the public welfare fund, so it would be necessary to consider another, more optimal solution in the future steps of the legislative process. Nevertheless, the children and those with him who remain after the breakup will be able to make it easier for them to exercise the right to compensate for their livelihood. The revision of long-term and complex maintenance procedures is necessary because many times in the process of exercising rights in such difficult family situations faced by beneficiaries. This is a sensitive issue which cannot be assessed only through existing legal provisions, but mainly from the point of view of implementation in practice. The task of the State is to design personal contacts into an appropriate system that will be able to respond comprehensively and solve individual problems. We expect more hearing from the coalition this time on the side of the amendment proposed by part of the opposition, and we support the non-aligned Members and we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone else here! Living in a single - parent family or in a single - parent family, as we say at home, brings many complications in the majority of citizens in an incomprehensible situation. If I only mention the 151st article of the Family Code, which is the nightmare of all singles, just past the subject under consideration. The article states, inter alia, that separate parents decide on issues that have a significant impact on their development in agreement and in accordance with the child’s benefit, each interpretation in their own way; from the fact that there are speculations when it comes to visiting a believer, for example, when a child chooses to study, when it comes to choosing a doctor, a dentist and could also list. It is understood that someone who pays for maintenance also has permission to get involved in everything. The epilogues then take place in court. How these battles can end, we saw last year's Christmas in the village of Gereca. Several laws in the Slovenian space are directly or indirectly linked to single families. Some laws and articles, as mentioned in this article, change the lives of two separate persons to a real hell. If a good 30 years ago, divorce was considered to be something of a permissive nature, the number of divorces from independence continued to increase and, as a result, the number of singles were also separated on purpose from exploiting the legal hole and thus exploiting certain national ratings. It is true that last year the epidemic separated only a thousand 774, but the year before that number was strong over 2,000. In spite of the increasing number of divorces, however, the laws do not change in the direction of harmonising according to the needs of such families. Thus, in the Act on the Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia can be read in Article 21, “reimbursement of maintenance shall not be paid if the amount of maintenance compensation is lower than EUR 2 000”. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 2,000 tolars! We're talking about good 8 euros here. The average maintenance in Slovenia is 138.26 euros. Less than €20 receives a maintenance allowance of 3 000 618 children, and this month the public maintenance fund paid a maintenance allowance of €285,000 299.81 for 3 000 181 children. Given that maintenance is determined in court, I am really interested in which judge or judge will determine maintenance at a rate of less than 20 euros or even 8 euros. A parent who can't even give 8 euros a month for a child, I'd rather not say, for such a parent it's a waste of words. But I don't know what to think of people who thought it was worth writing down the law that the maintenance allowance should not be paid if the amount of the maintenance allowance was less than EUR 8. It is clear that regulating nutrients, contacts, social transfers for so-called singles and anything else, is an acid apple that we will have to bite into once. If the data are kept by the Statistical Office, there are few more than 50,000 single parent families in Slovenia and over 70 thousand designated dependants. So at least 70,000 reasons for disputes and valid reasons for regulating this area at all levels. Finally, I suggest we prepare all the laws where the sums are still in tolars. We threw away the Tolars in 2007. For 14 years, she is a respected colleague and colleague of the former government that you have been inside, and that today there are tolars, which is indeed shameful. I think if all the laws in which the Tolars are written were pulled out of the closet, maybe there are other dinars, we could have an extraordinary session for five, maybe even more days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Good-bye, everybody! The applicant submits that the maintenance compensation procedure, when the maintenance is not paid by the debtor, should be too complex. There is also a contentious way of filing a claim for compensation because it is intended to overburden the parent who is already in a difficult material and psychosocial situation. Initially, it should be pointed out that the living conditions, conditions and pressures of individual parents are very different and do not show uncritical generalisation. The divorce itself has a certain effect on both partners and is often in a difficult wealth and psychosocial state as well as a dependent and not just a maintenance beneficiary. The enforcement procedure, which is a condition for initiating the process of proof of the right to compensation for maintenance, is not as complex as the applicant would like to present. On the portal of the court.si are available forms with detailed instructions for fulfillment. Free legal aid is available to the maintenance beneficiary, as is free counseling for lawyers once a year. It is not clear what the applicant meant by a document with a valid enforcement address, accompanied by other evidence to replace the submission of an application for enforcement. The refund shall be paid from the funds of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. from public funds. It is therefore of particular importance that it be established in advance with the utmost certainty that the maintenance beneficiary does not actually receive from the debtor and that the possibility of possible abuse is reduced to a minimum. This proposed arrangement does not provide that the proposed scheme is not sufficient to obtain a maintenance allowance following the new one, with the executive title document attached to it, with the other supporting documents and no longer an enforcement proposal for the recovery of unpaid maintenance. Such an arrangement extends the field of potential manipulation, so we do not support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret will be the last to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! On 20 November 1959, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child was adopted, and on the same date in 1989, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which became the first binding international convention for the realization of children's rights. The States Parties must provide the necessary protection and assistance to families as a basic social group and the natural environment for the development and well-being of all its members and children in particular in order to fully assume their responsibilities in society. The Convention provides in Article 3 that for all activities relating to children, either they must be run by state or private institutions for social protection, courts, administrative authorities or the legislative bodies of the child be the main guide. Parents have the right and duty to support, educate, and raise their children. This is also recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This right and duty can only be withdrawn or restricted to parents for reasons laid down by law for the protection of children's benefits. Parents are obliged to support their children until they are of age by providing them with the living conditions necessary for their children’s development, in accordance with their abilities and abilities. In the case of separation of parents, one of the most important institutions for providing direct care for the child is the payment of maintenance. Parents who do not live or live together anymore, as well as parents who live together, agree on the survival of their children. Maintenance allows the child the appropriate living conditions necessary for his or her development, education and vocational education according to his or her abilities, inclinations and wishes. In practice, however, children are often not provided with maintenance. The debtors, parents, are, however, obliged to pay maintenance payments on the basis of the judgment or decision of the court and on the basis of an agreement at the competent centre for social work. However, some may not be able to pay for such reasons or for such reasons, while others, unfortunately, are not consciously paying or paying them irregularly. In this case, the State allows children to compensate for the maintenance paid by the Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This ensures basic social security for children who do not receive maintenance. Non-payment of maintenance is a major problem in our country and compensation procedures are complex and long-term. As a result, parents of beneficiaries are no longer able to exercise the right to compensation and therefore do not receive it or receive it by delay, which further exacerbates the social situation of single-parent families. Children in single - parent households are in a very poor financial and social situation as well as children in a double - parent household, especially if parents do not have their own incomes or are very low. Reimbursement for maintenance shall begin when the beneficiary or his legal representative submits an application for enforcement of unpaid maintenance in court. The burden of recovery of unpaid maintenance is thus on the parent of a single parent. Today we have a bill to simplify maintenance procedures. The resolution of the bill removes the necessary condition for the claim for maintenance compensation, which is currently an enforceable proposal for recovery of unpaid maintenance. Instead, the application for a maintenance allowance and a document containing the applicable enforcement address will be sufficient to provide other evidence showing that the maintenance has not been paid or that the maintenance debtor pays irregularly. The burden of recovery of unpaid maintenance will be transferred from the beneficiary to the fund once the application is submitted. We also want to make it possible to compensate the maintenance beneficiaries who were given an amount of maintenance less than 8.35 euros by means of an executive title. Although we have discussed the same bill since September this year, the government of Janez Janša decided not to support the bill and, of course, the coalition MPs have followed the instructions and prevented the adoption of the law. They decided, therefore, to continue to allow unfair regulation, to continue to prolong the hardships of single parent families who do not receive maintenance, arguing that the current regime was appropriate. That is not the case, among other things, are the discussions of those invited to the meeting of the parent committee, at which we discussed the proposal for a law in early September. The Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, the Association for Non-Violent Communication, the Legal Centre for the Protection of Human Rights and the SOS Society telephone for women and children, victims of violence presented problems from practice, and the bill was supported. The new law was also supported by the National Council, and we were also able to hear on the committee by the proposer a number of sad stories of single mothers struggling to obtain a surrogate. Unfortunately, this has not convinced the coalition Members to support a more just regime and improve the situation of single-parent families on the verge of survival. In the LMŠ, as co-proposer of the amendment of the Law on the Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that today it will prevail and that when the coalition Members decide again in the first reading, they will support the proposal for a law. Let me remind you once again of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that in all activities relating to children either they are run by state or private institutions for social protection, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the child's benefits must be the primary guide. And today it's about the kids. In the LMŠ, we will, of course, support the proposal of the law that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mr Miha Kordish wants to speak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Before I come up with a substantive response to the presentation of the views of the various parliamentary groups that we could have heard, one question, or a finding of a very sad fact, what the government of Janez Janša thinks about the pressures of single families and their children: at this point, the government representatives obviously do not participate. Where are the representatives of the executive branch of the authorities, which are usually spoken of in law and in law? The government supports this law, doesn't it? Where is her representative, who will speak out loud, who will embroil and defend the government's position? As far as I am concerned, we can also stop the meeting until a government official shows up at the seat that he is assigned to, and talks about our proposal for a law and the pressures of single mothers, their children experience in general and in cases of non-payment of subsistence in particular. I mean, shame! We are discussing poverty reduction, the relief of hardships, in a somewhat broader picture of the unloading of the judicial system — there is no government representative. Then we also have this coalition compliment that the SDS, as the largest government party to present their views, is sending an MP to read a position that clearly does not know what it is and does not understand what he is reading. From here on, however, I will try to cover some of the content that we have heard in the presentation of our views, which is extremely problematic, and to contradict all the points against our initiative so that the maintenance beneficiaries, usually beneficiaries, can exercise their right to compensation for maintenance in cases where this is not paid directly on the maintenance fund, but not that they must through long-term, complicated, mentally exhausting judicial proceedings. I will begin with the position of New Slovenia presented by Mr Reberšek, who said that, on the basis of what we propose, it is possible for the replacement to be applied to maintenance without evidence. That's not true. New Slovenia, Mr Reberšek, that is not true what you said in your position! We are simply saying that it is not necessary to go to court first through the execution process, to face the former partner who has previously played you, to play the child, to perhaps be violent, to hide his property, to psychologically abuse the plight of the single parent household and so on, but to prove instead that the maintenance beneficiary is not paying the maintenance fund directly. We're simplifying the procedure. We debirocratize it – this is some expression and concept you have in you and even in this government that you love so much. That a person does not need to pass through all these liquid, heavy legal mills, comes directly to the maintenance fund, there submits, for example, extracts from the transaction account, which should show the paid maintenance, but not because of not being paid. There may be some other form of evidence, not a problem at all. On this basis, the maintenance fund can determine that, indeed, the maintenance has not been paid, it has issued a printing document confirming this to the mother of a single woman. And on the basis of this document, this single mother may then: for the first time, apply a non-received allowance, and for the second time, show at the Centre for Social Work that this allowance does not come to the transaction account, that it is not actually paid and that, for God's sake, his mother should not be reduced by the amount of financial social assistance she has never received. And it is simply not true that we are simplifying the procedure to this point so that someone can request a refund of maintenance without proof, as you stated in Novi Slovenije in the position. It's not true. That's a lie. The second is a purely conceptual point at which I was appalled and climbed into a chair, because it was absolutely incredible for me that someone could step in front of a camera, in the National Assembly, say such things and remain alive; namely, that on the topic of family violence, often accompanied by the issue of maintenance of unpaid livelihoods, relations should be regulated within the family and that the state should not interfere. Wow! In his presentation of his position, Comrade Siter listed one of the stories we received on the subject of unpaid maintenance and the pressure of single mothers. We have made a few months ago an invitation to people to share their experiences with this maintenance system of ours so that we can see plastically where, exactly how it sticks and only in a week we get practically self-initiative 50 different stories. One of them was the one who was read by Comrade Siter in his presentation and concluded that the knife on the mother’s nursing home once was completely sufficient. And what does New Slovenia say? The relationship should be regulated within the family. The knife on the neck is clearly better than the fact that a person does not need to go to court and that he can turn to the maintenance fund to replace the maintenance fund. Why do we have this maintenance fund after all? Also, the claim, the continuation of these relations within the family, that the state should not interfere, simply does not keep up with the marital material that we have brought. In any case, the state is already involved. Aren't the courts a state? Courts aren't state procedures? We are simply saying that this liquid, difficult, psychologically burdensome trial should be excluded from the entire procedure as a condition for the application of compensation for unpaid maintenance. That's all. It is not that the State is not now involved, but that it will then be involved; in both cases the State is involved, it is only that the involvement of the State is judicial and complicated somewhere else would be limited and the courts, as one of the state institutions, would not lead to this procedure at all. So the situation, if anything, is earlier the other way around; in this procedure, as we propose in simplification, there are fewer countries because one state institution is less, the court is smaller. At the same time, we have a country that calls itself a social state, which, of course, by the logic of things, should protect the weakest, which at the moment is not. He takes them through the administrative and bureaucrat court mill, set up so that often single mothers who are entitled to maintenance do not pay her, they do not decide for this trial at all, because they are afraid to go to court and sit there in the same bench with a man who may have beaten them a year ago, who beat up children and threatened them psychologically and so on. So I don't think there's any serious reason why anyone would reject this initiative of ours to protect children and single mothers in the event of unpaid maintenance. Meetings with reality also do not survive the claim that it is somehow a process of execution, it is said that what we now have is simply not burdensome for the child and the mother single who are in it, and then there is no need to change the law at all and help people. That's just not true. Even when we invested these things in the parliamentary procedure in Levica for the first time, it became very clear that even the clauses in the laws were being implemented in practice in such a way that it was much worse than better and that this complex system needed to be started at the level of law, which should then be translated further into practice. This execution process, as we now have, through which both children and mothers of single mothers are required, is complex, is time-consuming and is wasted financially, and in particular, I would point out once again, because it may even be the biggest factor emotionally extremely burdensome for mothers and children. So when a single mother is faced with a problem, she must first dig through the instruction and legislation to find out how she can obtain her unpaid livelihood. However, for people who are highly educated, they may not even be in a poor material condition, which is written, they might say, the interpretation of some of the legal Latvian language written in the acts, regulations and legislation, is something purely their own. We have all the legal services that are particularly involved in this, even the parliamentary groups, we have our own sectoral professional colleagues to help us interpret this marriage language, to help us find in it, in particular, just some layman who is already able to do something in life in an unenviable situation. Next. The application for a motion for enforcement — that is, for you to initiate proceedings in a court of law — requires information from the debtor. If the beneficiary wishes to recover the late interest, he must also indicate the amounts of maintenance valorisation for each year. So first you have to be a de facto lawyer to interpret the legal provisions, then you have to be an economist to calculate inflation and revalue some late interest. And the apologists of the existing system will say, yes, yes, because we have free legal aid and I don't know what else. Practice says the free aid mechanism doesn't work. In order for you to get this free legal aid, you have to wait one, two years. Yes, thank you so much for such free legal aid! It is supposed to be an instrument of free legal aid, in fact, a fire-fighting facility; something to help people in distress who cannot help themselves otherwise here and now. What kind of fire department is free legal aid if people have to wait for it for two years?Oh, my God! Another argument in opposition to this irresistible correction has in fact been translated into just one more reason why it is necessary to simplify the way for children and single mothers to make their lives easier. Almost a note below the line, however, when it comes to recovery from abroad, it is necessary to pay for all legal translations into one’s own fist. One of the stories we got in Levica and one of the cases we dealt with was that the father was from abroad, and we got some insight into the practice of how the gameplay system looks through TRRs in foreign countries. Which brings me to the end of emotionally burdensome procedures, especially in relationships where the ratio of power is highly uneven. Like when we're dealing with violent partnering. I will tell you one of these stories that I have already mentioned twice: “When I was in high school, my parents separated, no one wanted to support me. I asked for free legal assistance to get it, it took almost a year, despite the fact that I have repeatedly submitted a note that the matter is necessary.” So much for free legal aid. “That’s why I was forced to work with them. When I received legal aid, it took a few months before the day of my parents ’ lawsuit came. In the end, I got it, but because of my father's threats, I accepted an allowance of 50 euros a month. Everything lasted a year and a half." And no one will convince me that this system is effective, except that this system is fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Natasa Sukič, followed by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Maybe I'll start a little different. Every year between 25 November and 10 December, from today to 10 December, international action days against violence against women are taking place. In Slovenia we have marked them for the 27th year. Of course, I want and we want not only to bring this white bow into our support, but to really do something concrete. To, say, support single mothers who are often, I don't always say, but often the victims themselves of this violence. In order to support them, therefore, to take a deep look at the matter ahead of us today, we have indeed tried to understand it and not to pretend that this is the thing that is being done in the family, as we have heard today in the position of NSI. No, violence is a social problem and we must address it here and we must strive to eradicate it as much as possible. We need to understand that these women, single mothers, must be helped to make their way to maintenance at least, not bureaucraticly entangle them and make their lives difficult and difficult to deal with again and again with a violent partner who has abused these women, a single mother who may have abused children and who does not want to pay for their livelihood. That's what we're talking about. I'm not saying that all ex-partners are violent, but many, unfortunately, are. I come from a family like that alone, and I know what I'm talking about. It's not true that this is a matter of privacy. This is a social problem and we address social problems in the National Assembly. And if we really work for people and we are a social state and we are socially sensitive – we hear many times recently how the current coalition works for people, what good it has done for people, is today one of those opportunities that you can peacefully do something good for people again. You may think it's a trifle, but it would save a lot of people's lives and make life easier. Why? Single-parent households are one of the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia and live below the risk of poverty every fifth single-parent household. Maintenance in Slovenia is already extremely low, with 3 000 500 beneficiaries receiving maintenance of less than €20 or 12 000 500 receiving maintenance of less than €80 and so on. But in 80% of these single - parent families, they represent a single mother with children. And of these 80% single mothers, many were victims of brutal violence. That's why I started this today. What is the key task of a legal and social state? The key task is to protect the weak among us. And one stone in this mosaic is today's proposal. A simple thing, you just have to hear and have some good will and support it. Some sense, some humanity you like to talk about in general. And we do not ask that if we only suggest that you debirocraticize the country, facilitate bureaucratic procedures – yes, make it easier in this case this bureaucratic procedure, allow single mothers to get somehow these miserable, miserable nutrients so that the children may be provided with that piece of bread, about the poor, about the poorest among us, allow them to do so, but not that they will have to face again and again with a man who, if possible, brutally beat, beg and beg for it, and they will not come to this survival in the end. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next word is Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll be brief. I don't think we should get too complicated here looking for excuses. Look, what we're proposing is there's no extra issue, there's nothing to go into any additional rights or anything, and it doesn't represent some crazy burden on the existing structures that deal with these matters, but there's only one thing under the line. If the State on the one hand orders both parents to care for their children, then the State should also offer a reminder and some support to the parent who is granted the child's survival in cases where the other parent decides not to comply with its obligations imposed by the State with the law. Simple. And unfortunately, there are not many of these cases. I think that Micah has explained some of the cases in the first place, but also Natasha now, and I don't think there really should be any room for making excuses about why the current system is okay. One of the government's arguments was that enforcement was relatively simple when we first accepted this similar solution. There's a role to play when it's solved. Then it's all settled. But our stories that we've been able to get from people with this experience are diametrically opposite. It is difficult to access this basic legal knowledge at all, and let us understand that in these cases, when you go through a divorce, personal offenses, relationships between two partners can be resolved in agreement and there are no problems, but you have many cases where you have a violent partner where there is a breakup with a bad relationship then at the end and it is also difficult to communicate with a partner in this way. Another time. In fact, the execution process is complex. It will take several months before the court decides to recover the decision. At this time, even when we are talking about weaker families with one parent, these amounts, although some may seem ridiculous, may have a significant impact on the situation of this family. For which of us 20 Euros means nothing, for one such family it can also mean a few days of meals. Also, the non-payment mentioned by Mr Šiško in his position, the non-payment of these nutrients, which are less than €8, may amount to 8 kilograms of flour in one month and so on. So here I think we really shouldn't be thinking. If it is the State which imposes an obligation, then it is also right to ensure that this obligation is implemented. What we are proposing is that the fund, which is already the one paying the differences of these nutrients, would do so without waiting for enforcement. This does not complicate the procedure and does not make any change in the conclusion of the procedure, but allows people who should receive maintenance to begin receiving it immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! As we have now heard, we have already discussed this law at the September 9th meeting of the Labour Committee and, in fact, the other two tabled by Levica. In fact, I already said at that time that the applicants are dealing with really life and the essential things that need to be regulated. At the time, I asked the ministry if it could assure anyone that these things were being announced to be the case, not only what we are dealing with today, but also this payment of maintenance at hand, if this is indeed regulated in this mandate or not, I have not received a clear answer at that time. I don't have any information to this day either, or I'm supposed to be getting rid of it, but I don't have this information. In fact, I had already said that I would also have laws based on the opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service, which at that time said that such as all three were prepared at the time, in order to reject them with a heavy heart. Today, only this law has been introduced, the proposaler Levica proposes amendments to the law on the public scholarship, development, disability and maintenance fund, the main objective of this law being the deletion of one article. This is the deletion of Article 21.c. And what does this article say? if I read only the first introduction: “The child is entitled to a maintenance allowance if the enforcement procedure under the rules governing enforcement and insurance is unsuccessfully completed or if the enforcement procedure lasts more than three months.” I've already said many times, as a rule, it's women that I won't say anything wrong, but there's a man there, but I'm just going to talk about women's sex, that women with children, when they're alone, three months without maintenance is very difficult to get along with, and it's absolutely necessary to sort it out. So today I personally will support this law in my first reading. I believe that the proposers will have to coordinate if something is to be done to deal with the competent ministry, but this matter needs to be addressed in substance. Personally, I don't care who the proposer is, I have no problem with that. If we adopt a law that helps people, vulnerable people, I am certainly in favour of supporting the marriage. The first reading is, it can be completed if anything else can be corrected in the other articles, but it seems essential that this article, as proposed by the proposer, is actually deleted. It is true that these three months are not problematic, I mean, they are very problematic for three months, and it is even more problematic that some women do not even hope to submit this enforcement process. This, however, is very clear and has also been presented with a heavy heart by the proposer at the time of the introduction of the law. Especially in those families where there was violence, where they also went apart, then the mothers of these children do not even hope to introduce procedures for enforcement. We have already heard today, today is an international day to fight violence against women. I think we have a chance to help them this way at least a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following shall have the floor of the proposer. Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Preliminary debates, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Korazzi, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. In fact, Mojca has told us everything about the real solution that we are proposing today. In fact, what the State would have to do all along to relieve and protect the case, as Mojca had previously explained, the case of a single mother with a child, for example, and to take a stand for the weakest or weakest in this case or even the weakest child, should have been regulated and regulated long ago. First of all, the matter is that this marriage is really about children. How to provide a child with a safe social environment, including that part of the maintenance that belongs to him, while also enabling the mother to take care of her child and the single parent family carefully and safely. And everyone, I can see also when we listened to these stories, that some of you have also spoken from your experience, is the fact that we have very many of these cases in Slovenia. Since we have many such cases, it is important to provide and assist these individuals as soon as possible, especially single - parent families and children who are innocent and undeserving. In such a case, the state should protect them immediately, help them and enable them to live a life worth living. If the state is not able to understand this or the Members are unable to understand it, then there is one great sadness that will also cast a dark shadow on this national assembly, because in reality you are not prepared to vote for the protection and safety of the child, for their social security and for social security in most cases of these single mothers. So please reconsider, or because you have nothing to think about, you really need to know that it is right for such cases and such single - parent families to protect themselves, their family, and their children as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted the list and are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The representatives of the Government are not in the Chamber, so the representative of the proposer, Mr Miha Kordiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The government's representatives are still not in the hall. I would like to take a few more arguments, which so far I have not had the opportunity to present in the debate for a simple reason, because the debate was hardly anything. But what happened was encouraging enough to do this for today's vote, fingers crossed so that we can get votes and accept it. And if anyone else hesitates, I would like to make some further argument that perhaps, hopefully, we will finally gather the votes and allow single mothers the way to make up for maintenance by way of legal channels directly through the maintenance fund. I would like to begin with the expression we use in Levica as the proponents of today's law, which should serve as an argument as to how difficult it is to find some ignorant person who is in social distress, among our legislative corps, procedures and everything else. For example, in today's debate we are talking about single mothers, single families, but we are not really talking about single families, but we are talking about so-called single parent households. Legally, single families are the ones in which the partner is de facto absent, for example – I will give an example – the father died. Now show me a layman in psychosocial distress, desperate for the pressures of a absent dependent to pay for a living, with the survival of a child, and I don't know what else to navigate through all these legally complicated procedures, to be found after all these lexiques, because I think this separation between single parent households and single families, which I have just pointed out, has not been in the conscience of Members and Members, and we are being greased for the fact that we are dealing with legislation. Until now, I don't think the majority of people who vote today were aware of this difference. After all, I did not realize it myself until we began to deal in an in-depth manner with maintenance legislation. At the same time, I must point out once again that the free legal aid available to people in distress is very ineffective because it takes one year, two years to get people to help after they have already turned on it. And that is the first reason why the path to a surrogate allowance for single mothers needs to be facilitated in order to relieve them of the difficult judicial process, including the fact that such a mother then has to search for information about her father, the former partner, where she lives, what her permanent address is, herself has to recalculate her late interest, to exercise valorisation. You practically have to change into a detective before you can even start a trial in court. I think it's absurd what we have done here. Second, that no one will think about how we invent hot water in Levi, let me give you some examples of how this is arranged abroad, the examples we have followed in our case. The case of Sweden. There the function of the social work centre fund is managed by a single institution, a social security agency. This agency does the maintenance recovery on its own. The maintenance beneficiary shall submit an application to this agency and then proceed with the procedure. On the other hand, someone who is entitled to a maintenance allowance or an allowance for unpaid maintenance may count on the so - called monthly minimum subsistence allowance. And here is the Swedish system that takes the risk of recovery. We want the same thing in Levica. Why is that mother and that child placed in the role of a man who must claim someone’s unfulfilled obligations in the courts?Oh, my God! We do have a country to do this instead of an individual, because we pay taxes, why are we paying taxes? Let him help people in distress if he wants to call himself a social state. We have a similar situation in Germany. The so-called Youth Office operates in this function. If the maintenance debtor does not pay the maintenance allowance, the beneficiary shall first invite the debtor in writing to pay the payment, it shall be said that the father who has not paid the maintenance is called upon in writing and then complies with the maintenance advance application and then further regulate the procedures of the competent youth office. So again, it's the institution that takes over the work instead of the individual who's already so marginalized in distress. And these offices also operate in all federal countries. So I think these are examples of good practices that we can lean on that we can use. And let me add the following to the end. Although we are primarily talking about single mothers, this is not always and is not always only about female partners in a relationship. These cases are about 80% and 20% are single fathers. So we're talking about mothers here because these cases are the most because women in society are also discriminated against and already pushed into a more dependent situation, which is then translated into relationships within the family and in cases of unpaid livelihoods. However, this is not a complete circle of beneficiaries who are placed in an unappreciative position to recover unpaid maintenance. Here we also deal in some cases with fathers who take care of children and are disadvantaged in these procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has remained, I ask, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. I see there's only one. No, not anymore. I'll open the list. Please sign in. A proposaler, too, if he wants a word as last. The applicant must also apply if he wishes to speak. We have three reported discussers. The first is Mr Dušan Šiško, followed by Mr Aleksander Reberšek and followed by Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Dear Vice President, distinguished motioners! Since I was mentioned, I also applied, otherwise I would not have been involved in this debate. However, it is true, as I said in my position, that less than €20 is provided to 3 000 618 children. I expect the applicant to be able to complete the amendment at the second reading to determine the minimum amount. I think we will all agree - at least EUR 40 as the lowest amount. That the minimum amount to be paid by the child dependent person is EUR 40. Not that the judges will set EUR 8 or 2,000, because we know what 2,000 tolars are worth today. Like my colleague Matthew said, maybe eight kilos of bread, but now that the bread's irritable, you can't get another eight pounds, you have to go to the store right to see where the bread is under one euro. In my position, I also said that these laws of ours are being abused. A lot of people get separated just for the purpose of having a smaller cost in kindergartens, they can buy a car for leasing, nowhere to be shown. And then they're forgiven. Of course, one lives at one address, the other at the other address, pays, is the question of how they write that thing on the sheet, and they're still together. As I said, we will support the first reading in the Slovenian National Party. I expect an amendment, and I hope it comes true as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Reberšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yes, if you know anything in Levica, it's that you can speak very well, that you are rhetorically very subdued, you know how to turn words very well, manipulate. You take the words out of the context – I said that society must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold, that we promote awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his own secure social situation, especially in age. Several factors are responsible for the social security of each individual. First, each individual, then his or her family, his or her working and living environment, and finally a country with effective legislation and comparable financial resources. In the meantime, in Levica you play on some emotional triggers that fall to fertile ground among voters. I don't know how many times today you've spoken the words of a single mother, a dependent, a child, a piece of bread, reading stories written by a great majority by an expert in the Left. It's very similar to, say, fracking, poverty, water, climate change and so on, minimum wages to remember, nicknames. And of course, such words touch people and often do not have any contact with reality. But they sound very nice and hard to oppose, contradicting your speech. But since it doesn't matter at the end, it's important to get political points in such a cheap way. You were a super-counselling party - why didn't you arrange it then? Why didn't you solve that problem then? The fact is, when you're in opposition, you're hyperactive, but when you're in power, you're handicapped. That's how a man feels. And the fact that we must not forget is that it is because of you that this government, because you did not want to go to the coalition, because you calculated that the chair is worth more than all the promises that you will never and never be able to fulfill. Miha Kordish also wonders where the authorities are, why they're not here today. Like you people, the nation no longer takes you seriously; it is obvious that you are no longer taken seriously by authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much for this debate. There's no replica in time-sharing, so I can't give you my word as a proponent. However, I will not comment on the debate of my colleague Rebersk in that part that was disrespectful of the parliamentary function and the legislative branch of power. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik, the next and the last, has the floor. Here you go. She has a procedural proposal ahead of her, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would ask you to protect my integrity as a Member and the integrity of the Levica Group of Members, which has brought this provision of maintenance and assistance to single mothers on the parliamentary bench. This is not about us, although Mr Reberšek of New Slovenia preferred us to mothers in distress and victims of domestic violence to deal with us in Levica, kicked us, spit us out, I don't know what else. Babies can go and take pictures. And then he committed himself to the fact that we're handicapped because we're making such laws and that we were in power and I don't know what else. Handicapped is the one who has been in the National Assembly for four years, claiming that Levica has always been in power since she was never in power, at the point of the agenda, where she should be dealing with single mothers, the pressures of children, the family violence, the unpaid livelihoods. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	I take this as a procedural proposal to warn my fellow Rebecca, which I will not, because I will not be involved in the debates of Members. It is more appropriate, however, to say more about it if it legitimately assesses that the bill is inconclusive and that the opposition MPs are no longer taken seriously. It just says more about him than it does about us. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! It is difficult to listen to the man of the greatest populism in this room, who is proposing, even the LMŠ, who cosigns this law, is evident that we are collecting political points cheaply. And this gentleman thinks of himself as some kind of Christian Democrat. Well, I won't comment because it's a waste of my time and energy for such a gentleman. And yet. Today we mark the international day against violence against women. In fact, it is very convenient that we are considering this proposal of the law today. You probably know, fellows who won't support it, as we can tell from your views, that you're in the SDS and obviously in the NS, it's hard to actually understand that you won't support it, but okay, you won't, it's your right. Why should violence against women really be discussed? Because it is one of the most widespread and harmful human rights violations. For the most part, this violence remains unreported because of stigma, fear, shame, and feelings of humiliation. Even according to the United Nations, one in three women or girls experience such physical or sexual violence most often by an intimate partner. And what happens? It happens exactly what we are correcting with this law today, because this current system is not okay because it has to be changed because too many children and women suffer for it. Because procedures are also long-term, painful because anomalies occur in these nutrients. Also such that the maintenance that this woman does not actually receive is counted in her income and then raises her rates for kindergarten or such absurd matters. And that is why, Comrade Reberšek, we are proposing this today and that is why we are correcting this anomaly today. That's what this is about. It's about these people. Not for your populism babbling here. Violence, gender inequality also needs to be discussed loudly here, in this house, because we are actually here, over and over again, because it is a problem of society as such. The problem is also growing in Slovenia. Even after this apparent time, it will turn out - already in the middle when schools were closed - that this is also a major problem in Slovenia. What exactly is today's proposal? Procedures for obtaining nutrients should be simplified. It's very simple. Instead of what has been so far, this bill will ensure that a woman can actually obtain maintenance, will be sufficient to obtain a maintenance allowance and a document with the applicable enforcement address, which will also be accompanied by all the evidence that will show that the maintenance has not been paid and or that the person who has to pay it, i.e. the debtor, pays irregularly. And that is the essence of what needs to be done today. So delete Article 21c and confirm the proposal that the colleagues of the Left have drawn up now for the second time. We've signed it now, too. There are too many stories that were told by those ladies who came to the committee at the time and explained their personal stories. Me and LMSH have touched this story very much. I believe that one of you, including someone from the coalition, has been touched, and I wish that this would prove to be the case today in the vote. As it is said, in the LMŠ we will also support the law we have co-signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - PROPOSAL FOR A DECLARATION ON SUPPORT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF 2. April 2009 on the European will and totalitarianism. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of 41 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this proposal for a declaration, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. All hailing this symbolic day of fighting violence against women, for among the victims of totalitarianism were also many women of all ages, children, families, all. On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, taking into account the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and in the past resolutions already adopted on respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. With it, the European Parliament has shown explicit respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and has shown respect for and a gift to all who have fought against tyranny and oppression, and has renewed its commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe based on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. The history of this resolution of the European Parliament is precisely that it expresses its opposition to all totalitarianism and the emphasis on the need to preserve the memory, because without truth and memory there can be no reconciliation and without it there can be no common way forward. At the same time, all crimes against humanity and mass violations of human rights are strongly and clearly condemned. On this basis and on the basis of the calls in the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, we propose a declaration of support for this resolution. With this support, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will express explicitly and permanently the rejection of all totalitarian regimes, irrespective of their ideology, as they are all based on violence, on systematic human rights violations and are therefore criminal and rejected. With the support of the resolution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will express its utmost respect for all victims of all totalitarian regimes and thus join the joint efforts expressed in the resolution of the European Parliament. At the same time, the National Assembly will commit itself to respect its recommendations and, importantly, support it throughout the text without any reservations. We therefore propose that this historic declaration be adopted, building on what has already been done. Due to the exceptional importance of the values on which a free, democratic, modern, united Europe is founded, and because it is an explicit respect for values, which also represent the core of the values on which the independent state of Slovenia is established, and in particular from the utmost respect for all victims of all totalitarian regimes, we are in full denial of this declaration in the coalition and will vote unanimously in favour of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Let me just point out, given the catastrophic epidemiological situation, according to the instructions of the epidemiological profession, not least, according to the government's instructions, I suggest that all speakers on the speaker panel wear masks. We're moving on now. The proposal for a declaration was addressed by the Committee on Justice as a working body by Mr Blaž Pavlin, President of the Committee, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Justice is at its 32nd session. 11. 2021 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a declaration of support for a European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. The representative of the proposer, Mr Mag. Branko Grims, in a complementary explanation, said that the National Assembly was asked to support the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, by which the European Parliament had expressed its respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and had bowed down to all those who had fought against tyranny and oppression and renewed their commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe. The historicity of that resolution is in opposition to all totalitarian regimes and to the preservation of the memory of the past, because without the truth there can be no reconciliation. With the support of that resolution, the National Assembly will explicitly and permanently reject all totalitarian regimes, irrespective of their ideology, and express its deepest respect for their victims. It will undertake to comply consistently with the recommendations of the resolution and support it throughout the text. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek pointed out in her presentation of their written legal opinion that the declaration is an act of a political and not legal nature whereby the National Assembly expresses its views on important social issues. The proposed declaration concerns substantive support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, with the adoption by the National Assembly of a special declaration already in 2009 of this resolution. It also pointed out that that resolution did not reflect the call on Member States to support it by adopting a specific act. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zlatko Ratej, presented the Government's written opinion that crimes and human rights violations should be dealt with under the same criteria for all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, which is why it is important for Slovenia to deal with this declaration as well. The Government supports the basic objectives of the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, and encourages those important social themes to be addressed and further studied by experts in the field of history and the laws most called for to do so. In the debate, the Member and the Member of the Left Group pointed out that there was no need for the adoption of the proposed declaration, since the National Assembly had already adopted a declaration of familiarity with that resolution in 2009. In their opinion, this resolution seeks to tame the European history of the 20th century, as it demonizes communism and equates it with Stalinism and consequently with fascism and Nazism, which offends the memory of all those who have fought for a more just world and freedoms that are now self-explanatory to us. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal for a declaration together with 7 votes in favour and 5 against. As no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a declaration, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, and the rest of them present! The Group of Members and Members tabled a proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. In opening, I should point out that the content to which the proposal for an act relates has been addressed several times by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Group of Members and Members. It follows from the proposal that the European Parliament adopted on 2 April 2009 a Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which confirmed the opposition to all totalitarian regimes and stressed the need to preserve the memory of the past, because without truth and memory there cannot be reconciliation, while strongly condemning all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The purpose of the proposal for an act is to join the European consciousness of totalitarianism, with the support of the National Assembly, in that it will only prove that it supports the condemnation of all totalitarianism. I should also point out that in 2009 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had already adopted a special declaration, which took note of the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009, is said to be the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism. Finally, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to say that crimes and human rights violations must be dealt with under the same criteria for all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, which is why handling the proposed declaration is also an important direct message for Slovenia. This is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the basic objectives of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009, and also supports and encourages those important social issues to be addressed and further examined by experts in the field of history and law who are most called upon to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mr Primoz Siter. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, hello! Again, we are looking at the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, once again on the proposal of the SDS. It's nothing but pollution of public discourse. For the second time in this mandate, together for the fifth time, we are dealing with the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which is one of the many documents with which they want the backward, conservative forces controlling European institutions to impose a specific model for the interpretation of modern European and global history. You propose that the parties to the far right coalition should once again accept the declaration of the same resolution. Such a proposal is unrealistic, but quite in line with the other propaganda activities of political parties a few months before the elections. By constantly starting the same topics as anti-communism, they are trying to mobilize their historically seduced voters. For the rest have already been overlooked. The resolution on the three so-called totalitarianisms of the 20th century, namely Nazism, fascism and communism, which, of course, is only about demonizing the latter. The purpose and purpose are clear, trying to discredit the political forces that are criticising the existing system and which offer an alternative to society and the current state, which, thanks to the current government, is all but complete. Society today is full of corruption and exploitation of man and nature. But the proposers of this declaration don't mind. They accept this as something natural, something self-evident, something normal, but at the same time they try to discredit a political force such as the Left, which does not agree to such a state and actually offers an alternative. The concept of totalitarianism, tried to pin it on socialist forces, is simply a struggle against a political enemy. If you label someone totalitarian or potentially totalitarian, you try to eliminate him from a political struggle without arguments. But we're already used to this, and we're finally dealing with customers who would just ban Levicca. So much for totalitarian approaches. And now we're actually thinking about totalitarianism in Levica. In Levika we do not agree to the mark totalitarianism, not for former communist regimes, nor for fascist regimes. Not because they might not acknowledge the severe suffering of people who have been affected by fascism or regimes that have tried to build socialism, but because it really gives an idealized image of Western parliamentary democracy or Euro-Atlantic integration. The sign of totalitarianism became highly popular in the first two decades after World War II, particularly among American ideologists who, for the purposes of propaganda war, compared the darkest cases of communist and fascist regimes with the so-called ideals of Western parliamentary democracy, combined with gross capitalism. For our part, we can agree that socialism in the 20th century was a good idea that had failed. Just as we can say for, say, Christianity or some other religion that, on the one hand, proclaims common human values and in practice beats those values. We all know that in the Bible, words like Love Your Neighbor More Than Yourself, but the Roman Catholic Church was until 150 years ago the greatest feud in Europe, which not only advocated feudal exploitation, but was also the greatest exploiter. We also know that Christianity preaches peace and non-violence, and in practice the RCC has consistently supported and even participated in bloody conquest wars and from crusades to colonization to our second world war, where much of the clergy has actively collaborated with Nazis and fascists. In this sense, both state socialism and organized Christianity can be said to be a good, basically noble idea that has failed or failed to come true. No one, at least about a normal person, can claim that Nazism was a good idea that did not come true, was a criminal idea that unfortunately was too happy and realized. The problem with these resolutions is therefore that they are essentially defending capitalism and at least indirectly discrediting any anti-capitalism. Of course, we will never support this socialist because it is not real and it is not right. Capitalism is a exploitative system that causes human and environmental disasters every day. Capitalism is an irrational and unfair social order that will fail, just as any unjust system in history has failed. Let's just hope it goes down before it destroys the entire planet and replaces it with a more human, in short, socialist arrangement. This collapse will not be halted by any parliament, not by Slovenia, not by Europe, and no resolution. The struggle for a different society, socialism, it goes on. Since the Paris Commune, these efforts have earned general electoral rights, social services, eight-day worker, weekend leave, annual leave, the right to hospital leave, the public health and education system and most of the civilisational achievements that should be appreciated today, but they have been consistently eliminated by neoliberal doctrine. Ask one of the espouses, what single mother, pensioner, farmer, worker, culturer, tenant of the market apartment, waiting for a medical examination and so on. In Levica we understand the destructive totalitarianism of capitalism and reject the empty and swollen historical generalizations with which the right hand wants to throw both fascism and communism into the same basket.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor to present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! More than ten years ago, on 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. With it, both the European Left and the Right have united, as the resolution has been supported by a large majority of European Members. The resolution was then unanimously supported by all European Members from Slovenia: Lois Peterle, Ludmila Novak, Romana Jordan Cizelj, Miha Brejc, Jelko Kacin, Aurelio Juri and Mojca Drčar Murko. In this resolution, the European Parliament strongly and clearly condemned all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes: fascism, Nazism and communism. Slovenia is the only country in Europe that has been oppressed by all three of the worst totalitarianisms of the 20th century, namely fascism, Nazism and communism. Let me quote the respected former President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the late Dr. Jožet Trontlje, who says: “Naziism and fascism will never be blamed for World War II, for the terrible woes caused by many nations, for the millions of victims who have fallen in conflict, were killed in camps or in interwar liquidations. The fact is that the third totalitarian system, communism, has entered into the war with new horrors." End of quote. All three totalitarians are therefore worthy of conviction. Maintaining the memory of these events and their relevant historical evaluation is certainly one of the important assurances that something like this will not happen again in the future. In this direction, it is also very important to raise in a spirit of democratic values, which also promotes critical thinking and enables the path of maturity to respect values and accept the truth. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, it does not seem appropriate for us to interfere and blame each other for things that have happened in the past, but we need to condemn bad acts and crimes together. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution on Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Dear Members and Members! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, taking into account the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and taking into account the resolutions already adopted in the past on democracy and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. By doing so, he confirmed his opposition to all totalitarian regimes and renewed his commitment to a peaceful, patient and successful Europe. Today we also have the opportunity to show our support in the Slovenian Parliament for this resolution of the European Parliament. This clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and thus allows the resolution to be published as an official text also in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Support for the resolution seems reasonable and necessary to avoid any justification and tolerance of totalitarian regimes, to avoid selective condemnation of totalitarianism and to avoid historical revisionism. At the same time, supporting the resolution is crucial to preserving a respectful memory of the past. We remember all the victims with dignity, pieta and impartiality, and we express compassion, understanding, and recognition for their suffering to their family members and descendants. We must not blind ourselves to the fact that these traumatic experiences have left no lasting impact on several generations of Europeans, including Slovenians. But the ultimate goal of exposing and assessing the crimes of all totalitarian systems is reconciliation, which can only be achieved through recognition, forgiveness and moral reconstruction. However, any different interpretation of today's consideration of this resolution in the Modern Centre Party as co-proposers is strongly and regrettably rejected. With that resolution, the European Parliament also declared a day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian regimes. This is what we mark on August 23rd. On this day, the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact was signed in 1939, a pact on non-aggression and sharing of interests in Eastern Europe between Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union. By adopting this declaration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we will also give a clear message to the Slovenian and European spaces, that we reject all totalitarian regimes under the same criteria, regardless of their ideological background, and that we show the deepest respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia will also symbolically demonstrate its commitment to fundamental European values, respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law. We will support the Declaration on Support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It is bizarre when, in the largest coalition party in a time of pronounced health and social crisis, the crisis of values and the near bankruptcy of the rule of law succeeds after many years with its own interpretation discourse explaining past history. If anyone else believed that in these circumstances they merely cared about saving human lives, today's consideration of the declaration is proof that this is not the case. They can't get out of their skin as we can see. The only difference compared to previous attempts is that, on this occasion, Parliament was able to gather a sufficient parliamentary majority to draw the content of the resolution to a plenary session. As a supranational institution of European political space, the European Parliament adopts both legislative and political acts as part of its work. All these adopted acts, regardless of what individual Member States think of them, have become part of the European political order and the value field by adopting them in the European Parliament. However, these resolutions are far more difficult to express the sovereign will of national parliaments, which draw their legitimacy and sovereignty from another basis. The National Assembly took note of this resolution from a long time ago in 2009 and also made informed and balanced views on the principles of addressing past history in Slovenia. This has been the case for the last 12 years. And it could apply for the next 212 years, but for SDS, of course, this is not enough. It should only authorize their own ideological narrative, even though this resolution in points B and C appears to be opposed. It is stated that no political party or body has the exclusive right to explain history and that Parliament should not impose official political interpretations of historical facts through majority decisions. So why this unnecessary anti-totalitarian spectacle? This is a clear purpose of sharpening the ideological struggle, which is used exclusively for political benefit and the Hujska language of its own electoral body. Simultaneous satisfaction, regardless of the consequences, which will needlessly and re-break society. The uncomfortable lust for chandelier catharsis is fueled as never before, and there is no virus in all epidemic proportions. It is not a problem that the resolution respects all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes and that it is given to all who have shaved against tyranny. Nor is it a problem that he firmly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by these undemocratic regimes. It is not a problem either to stress the importance of the memory of the past, nor to express compassion, understanding and recognition for the suffering of the victims of crimes and their family members. The problem is the clear unconvincing nature of the proposal's supposed sincere desire to contribute to overcoming ideological divisions. It is bizarre, when all coalition partners, regardless of their previous views, are exposed to the same horn as historical entrails, at this meeting. Some of us, who until recently have been dealing with grandfathers who have fallen in the fight against fascism, are now severing through the branches of the family tree to find someone to identify them with the grace of the freeway who is fighting totalitarianism. A pardon worthy of denying your inner self and meditating on a new mantra. In the meantime, the European Parliament adopted several similar resolutions, in 2019 on the importance of the European historical memory for the future of Europe. This, inter alia, condemns the entry of xenophobic and extremist forces into Europe to distort historical facts and to the use of symbolism and rhetoric reflecting aspects of totalitarian propaganda, racism, anti-Semitism and hatred of sex and other minorities. At the same time, it calls on Member States to prohibit neo-fascist and neo-Nazi groups and all other institutions that celebrate and glorify Nazism and fascism or any other form of totalitarianism. In 2018 a similar resolution was adopted on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe. What is in its own right and in its own right is that coalition Members and Members are deaf about these two resolutions. If we go even further, they are extremely ignorant of the recent resolution by which the European Union has declared itself an area of freedom for the LGBTQ community. At least in this case, it would be expected to be positively defined by the liberal part of the coalition and invested in the approval of the National Assembly, but they should not even dream of it. Liberalism apparently freezes some in the fatal volume of the coalition adhesion. Today we are on this subject, because people need to be focused away from the kidnapping of a country, away from the outrageous actions of ministers who deny the laws, away from the debt of generations of our grandchildren, away from the truth that looting is the basic tendency of rule. Therefore, in the final outcome of this lustration anti-totalist spectacle, which is presented in the coalition, we will of course vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Felice Žiža will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Egregi deputies! Tisztelt Hölgyim és Uraim! We support the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 in the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Next up, Eva Irgl will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We therefore have before us a European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. It has been discussed several times by the National Assembly. The European Parliament resolution builds on common European values. These values are respect for human dignity, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law. The European Parliament resolution builds on a joint fight against totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The resolution builds on a clear conviction of all crimes against humanity and builds on a clear conviction of mass violations of human rights committed on behalf of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like the resolution of the European Parliament today to be unitedly supported and thus to convey a joint message that totalitarian thinking in Europe does not have room. We will support the resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Nick Prebil's next. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, welcome! Fifthly, the case is before us and fifthly, the motioner forces before us this resolution, which has been rejected in this form every time. Although I am one of the younger members of this National Assembly, I also do not intend to be ideological in the position of the LMŠ Group. I do not see any added value in this and we share such an opinion in the Group of Members. At this famous point in the agenda, which also called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice, it was already on the same scale and in the same content on the agenda, as has been said several times. But in the LMŠ Group, we would like to draw attention mainly to two facts. The first thing is completely technical. The fact is that the resolution referred to in the National Assembly was dealt with long ago in 2009, when the National Assembly, by adopting a declaration of familiarity with the resolution, had already taken note of its content. Today we are discussing something that has already been addressed in the National Assembly in the past, including the same content. Not only with the same content, but with the same content, the National Assembly has already adopted a specific act. The adoption of today's proposal for a declaration would result in the adoption of two different legal acts on one and the same subject, which is unacceptable in terms of legal certainty and also in terms of some hygiene. And that's what they are, watch out! the proper warnings even at the Ministry of Justice and the same findings were made by the Legal and Legislative Service. If so, the proposer should propose, instead of adopting a new declaration, an amendment or addition to the already adopted declaration to the National Assembly. Only for information. These resolutions have not been addressed at all in most of the Member States of the European Union. As a second fact, I point out that the 2009 Declaration of Awareness also states, inter alia, that: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will do everything to develop and promote the Republic of Slovenia as a democratic, legal and social state in which special care will be devoted to the protection of human rights and freedoms, and will endeavour to ensure that tragic acts and divisions during World War II and during the one-party socialist system after it and their consequences are remembered as historical facts that do not cause new divisions, contradictions or hatreds." I do not want to read the entire fourth paragraph of paragraph 1 of the declaration because somehow reading the declaration or the resolution from letter to letter is not a presentation of the position, but even less a supplementary explanation. However, reality is slightly different. Democracy in Slovenia is falling after international research. Legal country - what is it? We could ask each other. But I would like to stress, above all, what seems unproductive to us in the LMŠ Group, and also inappropriate to witness again today that something is being said, there is another thing being done, that in politics, in particular from one part, the themes of our past history are constantly coming to the fore, although it is right that we remember them and respect them, but we should be dealing with the present and, above all, with our future. Otherwise, I can understand that we have different policies among different political parties. However, I do not understand the fact that some political parties have put ideological issues ahead of content that do not contribute to better prosperity in the country, nor to the social climate, but quite the contrary. They shall implement exactly what certain parts of this declaration or resolutions oppose. This has never been a good basis for the development and progress of any society. We have repeatedly stressed in the LMŠ Group and today I will do the same: it is time to stop burdening our people with ideological themes and to stop sharing on the basis of past half history. In our country, there are plenty of other important topics to discuss. There are also enough important topics that the current government already has strong principles. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we should also talk about the future. What is interesting about today’s situation is that the views of some of the parties who have joined this government have changed considerably from a few years ago to today on such an important topic that we are talking about today. From everything mentioned in the LMŠ, we estimate that today's treatment, fifth in a row, is unnecessary, is not a good call, but just an ideological fight. Finally, the commitments made in this declaration have already been accepted and their re-admission would be some kind of re-legal slip. From this point of view, because there is no problem in the content, because the problem is purely and only in ideology, we will not support this proposal in the LMŠ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, for the fifth time in the National Assembly, we are discussing the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism submitted by the SDS party. When we last considered the proposal for a declaration in the National Assembly in 2019 and also rejected it for the fourth time, the SDS is trying directly again because it is obvious that, given the power ratio in the National Assembly, today even hopes for possible success in the adoption of the proposal. We have already warned the Social Democrats in 2019 and in the years before that that the National Assembly had already adopted a special declaration on 22 October 2009, which took note of the European Parliament's Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism. The resolution of the European Parliament is a political act of the autonomous institution of the European Union, in which all Member States participated through their representatives in the European Parliament and which, as such, is a fact for all Member States. We are convinced that the adoption of this declaration in 2009, taking into account the specific historical circumstances of Slovenian history, has been a balanced and long-term decision of the National Assembly, which does not allow for the so-called historical revisionism and is therefore inappropriate to modify or interfere with it. The resolution we are discussing today also states: “No political party or body has the exclusive right to explain history, and historical facts should not be blackmailed by majority decisions in Parliament.” It also warned the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the declaration was an act of a political and not legal nature whereby the National Assembly expressed its views on important social issues. That the proposed resolution deals substantively with support for the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, with the adoption by the National Assembly of a special declaration already in 2009 of this resolution. It noted that the resolution did not reflect the call on Member States to support it by adopting a specific act, as well as the title of the resolution should be supplemented by information on its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed inclusion of the entire text of that resolution in the draft declaration under consideration is not only unnecessary, but is also inappropriate in terms of principles and method of taking definitions, views and decisions at national level. At the same time, in the context of the examination procedure, amendments could be substantively affected, which is obviously unacceptable. Despite all the same warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, today, so for the fifth time, with the proposal of this declaration, we are being reintroduced again and again in the past. More precisely, at a precise point in the past, where everything ends for the SDS and at the same time it starts again and again. This is a historical period, immediately after World War II, from which the SDS is being recharged. Social Democrats are never and will never reject the debate on the past. We need to know the latter so that we can understand the present and plan for the future and avoid mistakes from the past. Social Democrats have never so far hidden their history. No matter how complicated the past is, especially when it comes to a period of war that has caused so much suffering and injustice, we Social Democrats were able to move ahead. Thus, back in 1995 in Slovenia, we strongly condemned postwar killings at the client’s convention. We also condemned them several times in the National Assembly. We have been actively and constructively involved in the law on the correction of injustices and also in the management of graves. Once again, we have no doubts, and we have never had them arranged for the decent burials and graves of all the victims. We believe that the most appropriate and honest response to the 2009 Declaration of the National Assembly to the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is a consistent respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms, including the rights and respect for the victims of all totalitarianism and authoritarian regimes in the preparation and adoption of each individual legal act in the Republic of Slovenia. The real danger of such and similar debates, such as today, is the blurring of modern totalitarianisms growing in modern formal democracies. It seems almost unbelievable that today, after the tragic events of the 20th century in modern Europe, we are, with formal democracy, both at European Union and Member State level, at the same time justified and replaced by the rule of law and the protection of human rights, witnessing the emergence of political options that justify and even magnify the actions of former Nazi and fascist leaders. We are witnesses to European countries where state authorities no longer operate in accordance with legal rules, countries where fundamental human rights are not respected, where the foundations of democracy and the rule of law are being undermined, countries such as Poland and Hungary, where abortions are prohibited and in which power interferes with media freedom and the independence of the judiciary. We must fear this, and we should pay attention: to the present and the future, not to the past at all. New generations really don't want to live in the past anymore, they want to live in the present, they want to look forward to the future, and so we should stop the healing of old wounds and the pain of long past history, overcome the difference and move forward. Why do we always need to open up wounds from the past that do not heal in any way? Or would it be better for our common good to leave them behind and become the past — the past is history. The past shouldn't burden us. The past should warn us and teach us not to repeat old mistakes. Above all, we must ensure that such horrors do not recur and that we no longer bring hatred and discord into society. Today is an ideal opportunity to say that it is up to all of us, especially Members and Members of Parliament, who are representatives of all citizens and citizens, to prevent the horrors of totalitarianism and authoritarianism from recurring with zero tolerance for all forms of violence. Your Honor! For my sake, especially for the sake of the younger generations, let us stop ideological fighting and, as a politician, let us be examples of the ethics of the public word, but above all let us start to deal with and solve the social difficulties and actual problems of our citizens and citizens. We will not support the Social Democrats for the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a declaration. The word is Robert Polnar. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Totalitarianism is a political regime based on a comprehensive ideology and terror that controls all areas of human life. We speak of him quite easily. But there is neither the past nor the future in ease. Lightness is the result of its discontinuation. Each nation is obliged to offer to the world its own idea of destiny and to ensure the application of such an idea, which means, its own existence. Belonging to yourself is the most dangerous sin of our world. In the light of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, we are also talking about an attempt to relativise fascism. Such proposals are also burdened with some other, interesting, and unpleasant contradictions. What exactly is totalitarianism? Is it agreed that the regimes of Mussolini, Hitler, Stalin, Mao Zedonga were totalitarian? Or is the main content hiding somewhere else? Totalitarianism is not based solely on the rule of one and only party, on the present secret police, concentration camps, subordinate media, on lawlessness, fear and violence. On the contrary. Totalitarianism is also based on enthusiasm. Without any doubt totalitarianism is a historical drama, and this should be emphasized in particular, it is also a personal drama. It is born at a time when man gives up his own mind, his own destiny, his own body, and his health, his conscience, and his own instincts, his own mind, and his dreams. Totalitarianism is born when a person voluntarily agrees to submit his life to something that has been imposed on him from somewhere as a higher goal or as a higher meaning at the family table from the political booths, from the library, from school or in the media. Still, it is only a poor cowardice of obedience or a childish fear of rejection and disfellowshipping. It's still just stupidity, unable to recognize the emptiness and deception that cover up the higher hundred-year historical goals. All of this is still just the naivety of an ignorant despairer. Totalitarianism is born when obedience and submission to race, country, nation, party, proletariat or some higher being is experienced as enthusiasm, as a willingness to sacrifice, to renounce, to suffer. Just this enthusiasm - totalitarian is every enthusiasm for any illusion that appears to be more important than man - just this enthusiasm is a great and unforgivable crime against itself. Concentration camps, genocide, hatred, torture, war, mass poverty are crimes that are inevitable as a result of this original crime of great enthusiasm. The aversion of totalitarianism is not limited to its brutal involvement in everyday life, but to the fact that subjects are required not only to be obedient but also to be happy because of this humility. Its tendency is to transform its political objectives into the intimate and emotional goals of its subjects. The success of totalitarianism is measurable by the quality and quantity of emotions that have replaced rational democratic procedure. Governance with the State thus becomes a historic mission, and empty words become indisputable shrines, humiliation becomes dignity, contempt for itself is transformed into pride in the willingness to sacrifice. Severe intellectual and moral depravity, however, is celebrated and presented as national awareness or as a class consciousness. An individual who agrees to this and experiences a personal fulfillment in this landing has committed a crime against himself, and only technically and operationally becomes a question of when he will commit a crime against another person. Totalitarianism is not only Hitler’s speech, it’s not just Jugashville’s article or chauvinistic propaganda that offends reason. Above all, it is the inability of an individual to experience himself as a private identity, which is defined by nothing other than his personal self, but not by his origin, language or place of birth. These types of incompetence tend to grow to such self-despite that the unfortunate feels deprived or is even offended if it does not belong to the greater whole, the community he loves, for which he is willing to kill and for which he is willing to be killed. Where did these people lose their self-respect? Is it really so difficult to recognize the harsh deception in the abundance of freedom offered to nations and classes? Or do people really live in such existential, intellectual and moral abysses that they do not regret their time, their efforts, their lives to dedicate their lives to obvious obsessions that surely cannot bring anything but poverty and death. Loneliness is an existential reality of totalitarianism. Totalitarianism is an infection to violence, a tendency to total violence, to violence as a universal method to others and to themselves. Totalitarianism is the totalization of violence. It's an abomination that distorts everything it touches. And the big question is, ladies and gentlemen, to what extent are the Slovenian ghostbuster anti-communists who, in the form of Balkan macartism, cast out spirits under the guidance of yesterday's enthusiastic, even orthodox, communists, why the basic tendency of every totalitarianism as a demiurre of horror is the desire for its own invisibility. The quest to completely conquer us to become our inner self. From here, most people don't even feel totalitarianism, they don't even experience totalitarianism. They're often totally self-absorbed, and they don't even know it. In this void and in this sorrow lie the roots of totalitarianism. Without mass and enthusiastic cooperation there would be neither Hitler, nor Stalin, nor Al-Qaeda, nor the blond athletes, nor the merry colts, nor the joyous proletarians. There would be no police basements and no books would be banned. Flags, anthems and humps would only be boring brands among boring brands. The success of totalitarian propaganda is not the result of inexplicable skills but the desire to believe it. The power of the political police is not based on its effectiveness, but on small canals from the neighborhood, which anonymously falter out of conviction and satisfaction. In totalitarian regimes, the media are not unfreedom simply to make fun of power, but also to prevent people from recognizing their own moral misery. The fact that racism and anti-Semitism are criminal ideologies, that the dictatorship of proletariat is a reliable path to disaster and non-freedom, is not worth discussing. The problem is that people believe in it and are happy and proud of it. They are willing to accept any conjecture that shows itself to be more important than their own destiny. I am therefore convinced that the resolution, which attempts to condemn all totalitarianism, is politically flawed. Totalitarianism is only one, regardless of which flags it develops and which invention it offers happiness and freedom. And it remains totalitarianism because it offers this happiness and freedom to fiction, not to a living man. Totalitarianism is nothing more than a willingness to give up on itself, for the sake of which many frauds, which are once more and twice with lower intensity, are offered on the market of ideology and on the market of global views. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, I will listen to the obvious that I have been incomprehensible, so I would like to stress in particular that I will not support such a document of this resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism with an indication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić is not in the hall, so he has the word mag. Marko Koprivc, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Look, we're in a very strange state, I'd say. Slovenia has not been in the history of Slovenia as low as it has been in recent years. On the one hand, we have a severe epidemiological situation; on the other hand, we have the government of Janez Janša, who abuses this situation to take over all forms of authority. At the same time, rather than appease citizens and citizens in the face of a difficult situation, it further encourages intolerance and division. It seems absurd and abominable to me that, in this situation in the Republic of Slovenia, we will be able to get Members and Members back to the table this resolution on the condemnation of totalitarianism, for the second time in this mandate, and for the fifth time since it was adopted by the European Parliament. At the same time, I would like to point out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia dealt with it as early as October 2009 and then took note of this resolution. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly felt the same way that this information was completely sufficient. But no, the biggest government party of SDS, of course, like friends and friends of liberarians, the dark forces in Europe, especially in Eastern Europe, here I have in mind Polish conservatives, Hungarians and others, this is always one and the same opening of these, condemning mainly leftist regimes, let's say communism, one of the best topics to turn attention to the real problems of society. That is why we are facing this same resolution again today. There will be no mistake that it will not turn out as if we are now avoiding the condemnation of all the negative that happened even during the half-lived history on the so-called antifascist side. As we know, as clearly as a seed from the sky, I would like this liberal esdees click in particular to condemn and deal with communism, not with fascism and Nazism. You even put fascist organisations in a position to have the status of organisations in the public interest, and today, at a time when all the convictions of such an organization, organizations that publicly say that Hitler is a hero, their president or leader of an organization in particular. So it's not a fascism problem, it's not a Nazi problem. It is a problem for you to want labour movements and leftist movements to be equal to fascism and Nazism. But things are a little bit more complicated here. Like I said, Social Democrats don't run from responsibility. We do not flee from the condemnation of post-war beatings, which were the result of the collaboration and disgraceful actions of our kinsmen when they came to the side of the greatest evil of the 20th century: Nazism and fascism, and there is no way that any resolution can justify this dishonest and criminal act. But on the other hand, that's not the reason for the extrajudicial killings. That is why the Social Democrats clearly and unequivocally condemned these acts at our predecessors' congress in 1995. We also condemned these acts several times in other performances, including in the National Assembly. And there's no dilemma here. But on the other hand, history needs to be viewed objectively. The social democrats are proud of the anti-fascist struggle and the great victories against fascism and Nazism, which, after all, preserved the Slovenians and Slovenes as a nation and, above all, emancipated them over the greatest evil that has literally destroyed us. And once again, when we talk about half-time history, we also need to know historical circumstances and certain specifics. You cannot compare Slovenia with some Eastern European countries. After all, there are fundamental differences here. The Slovenian party was never Stalinist. And I don't want to apologize in any way, like I said, what was wrong, but it's not the same thing. Certain Eastern European countries were literally occupied by the Soviet Union, and we cannot say that for Slovenia and Yugoslavia. In addition, through some process of evolution, a party within itself has self-democraticized itself and has come down with power, as it is called, or agreed to multilateral elections, in which there has been a relative winner. Your great rumours about how you and your leader, Janez Janša, were responsible for self-sustainment do not hold, not at all. There would be no independent Slovenia without a reasonable functioning within the Union of Communists. And this is where the big credit goes to Milan Kučan as well as everyone else. I do not wish to deny, however, the merit of some of the more daring representatives of the then opposition and later of the authorities. So things are very complicated. As once again, I know that your intention is to demonize all the left forces and, on the other hand, to eliminate totalitarianism and totalitarian inclinations of the right, especially fascism and Nazism, is seen through many of your actions. But in any way, such a declaration is unnecessary and unacceptable in these times. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All the bad things that happened in the previous regime are said mainly by this absolute area, that limitation of freedom, human rights and so on is particularly characteristic of you, and this government manifests precisely these anomalies. And in a way, logically, Janez Janša was, so to speak, just before the end of the former power, part of this Communist Union. All the good things about values: antifascism, social security, which is guaranteed to citizens and citizens, after all, female emancipation, the possibility of political participation of women and so on, you have forgotten everything and would like to demonise it. On the other hand, you have preserved all those negative things that are primarily linked to the way society rules and controls. Let's work on how to deal with today's citizens and citizens who are few, and stop going back to the same topics and sharing citizens and citizens from some past stories. The fact is that Slovenia is founded on antifascism and the fact is that any declaration of this thing cannot change it. Historical revisionism is unacceptable and the fact is that citizens and citizens want policy answers to specific questions, to specific dilemmas, to specific problems. Look, we've talked a few times about energy poverty, which is happening in Slovenia, and you can't answer that. But you know how to go back to the past and into the woods to share in the patriots and partisans. Do what you want, but the truth is one and only, and you won't be able to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Get Natasa Sukich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I don't think there's much left to add after my colleague Koprivec. Mark described and outlined the situation and absurdity of today’s points very well. The fact is that the European Parliament adopted a resolution in 2009, and this is because of a new fact brought in by 2004 which is the enlargement of the European Union with the new Member States in 2004. We're talking about the so-called Eastern bloc countries. With this accession, some new circumstances have started to happen in the context of the experience of these countries, and I am now talking about Poland in particular and so on. The Slovenian experience here was different. On the basis of this experience, the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning all forms of totalitarianism. But the equation that you want to go to, so fascism, Nazism and communism, of course, is absolutely unacceptable, especially from the point of view of someone coming from Istria, who lived fascism for at least 20 years before World War II, knew what it meant to be post-Italian, knew what it meant to give up your culture, and it will be difficult to get a supporter in Istria for what you are going to do today. The fact is, as Marko put it very well, that the European Union is founded on antifascism. It is based on this fight and it is very well explained in the resolution itself that any extortion of support for a resolution through a majority vote in Parliament is unacceptable. And that's what you're going to do today, and it's the fifth time in a row. Five in a row. This in the absurdity in which the declaration of familiarity was adopted in 2009, and now we will adopt a declaration of support for the resolution, which is absurd in itself. Now I don't know what the European Parliament institution means to you. After all, your Members in this institution voted in favour of this resolution alone. Now I don't know if you deny yourself your delegates there. It's absurd. It's absurd that the fifth time you warm up the same subject, in the state that we're living in today. The situation we are living in today is also interesting. When we read what totalitarianism is. This is a form of government in which the power of the state is unlimited and used to control almost all aspects of public and private life. This control extends to all political and financial issues and to the views, morals and beliefs of people. It is interesting that we are talking about this resolution today, after, for example, yesterday you made a manoeuvre, which is in the form of amendments to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, so that you, I don't know, obviously keep your face. Since after one year you have been forced to appoint the Delegated Prosecutors to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, you will now try again to adopt this part of the procedure, exempt from this procedure, and absolutely subordinate it to politics. Why did I mention what totalitarianism is? Because more and more of us as we observe our daily lives, except that we are living in very difficult circumstances because of the virus, the ever-increasing moves of this government also remind us of this. When we talk about trying to submit to the media in every way, when we talk about trying to bring justice into line, when we talk about the fact that the National Assembly has already absolutely subordinated itself, that it has already been deprived of its basic powers, when the Constitutional Court tells you that you must not rule with the rulings, they are constantly ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court and decisions are being taken again, regardless of all the calls made by the profession, all calls and political opposition. I am talking about some hypocrisy in which it is called for solidarity, cooperation and, on the other hand, everything is done to conform to any criticism of the system, any criticism of the opposition, the opposition is the target of all possible quantifications, insults, targeted attacks, all if it hopes to say anything against the way the current government is going and which is not appropriate. In such circumstances, we need democracy more than ever. Right now, we need democracy. If you want people's support, if you want people's trust, you certainly can't apply the principles of some other systems you do. And that the absurdity is even greater, that hypocrisy is even greater, and you put a resolution into the debate again, because you know that now you have converts among you who voted against this declaration in 2019, but today they will obviously vote in favour, which is absurd in itself. Really, absurd pair of excellencies.But it can only be under this government, under the darkness, I will not say what is going on. It's funny, it's absurd, it's sad. People who do not have connections with the system in which some of your government representatives have lived, have functions, are being drawn back into this debate, which is already aboriginal, unacceptable, unacceptable and which the Social Democrats absolutely no longer want to go. We regret all the victims of totalitarianism, but we ask you to finally return to the future and start living now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you, too. As last reported, he has the word Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you. You're grotesque. You've just introduced a police state, you're gassing and beating citizens in protest, you've legislated a verbal delict, you're playing a constitution, you're ruling with decrees, you're subjugating everything, you're still in court and Parliament, you've given yellow vests the status of society in public interest, you're idolaters of Hitler to your minister of pearls, and you're here with high falsettes of totalitarianism. We are again considering a resolution on the everyday use of the SDS party, a resolution from a long time ago in 2009. In the SDS party, you have again forced us to debate on our history and on the three so-called totalitarianisms of the 20th century: Nazism, Fascism and communism, and you are in the process of demonizing the latter. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution by which, on the wings of the right conservative forces, it wants to harness the history of the 20th century in its image. In it, communism draws on Stalinism and equates it with Nazism with two equally poor totalitarianism, among which the vision of today's European Union has raised. What a superficial falsification of historical facts, what an insult to the memory of those fighters who at the same time understood the fight against fascism as a struggle for a more just world. You're forcefully equating what can't be equal. Let me first expose the lie on which your rejected populism is based, your new writing history. The resolution, discussed by Ambassador Monika Gregorčič, proclaims the non-aggression pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union of 1939 Ribbentrop-Molotov as an act that pushed the way into World War II. By doing so, he misrepresents the reasons for the rise of Nazism and the outbreak of World War II. We know that Hitler had already demanded in the book Mein Kampf in 1925 that Germany should violently fight Lebensram in the east. We know that in 1933 Germany began to arm itself intensively and to prepare for war. And that's not true what you wrote down. And you, over and over and over again, like those hamsters on that spinning circle to unconsciousness. What a conscious display of your emptiness, how literally fur for your electoral base. These eternally one and the same ideological themes. I will not support this rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Would you like a word? The representative of the Government does not want to, and the representative of the proposer has given up on this. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If you would like to discuss also Branko Grims' representative and a representative of the Government, please report by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	I've been running out of time before. Look, your method is a method of repetitiousness, you're always chasing and chasing and chasing one and the same thing, you're always digging up bones and upsetting the public with some of your twisted structures of history. One who has read seriously and knows about history can only take hold of one’s head. But of course you don't aim at those who have read anything. You are targeting people who have not studied totalitarianism and are so happy to simplify and create things for your own use. This use is the pumping of people, the sowing of discord among people. Forever again. Based on some increasingly distant history. A hundred years later, two hundred years later, this is not a problem for the SDS client. And that's what you do. And that's repulsive. And that's destructive. That's what's true, really bad. And this is you who are just introducing elements of the totalitarian state that you are introducing the political police, the police state. What else is this, what are these other elements of the totalitarian state? And you dare now to offer us here a resolution, which is from 2009. Well, that's right, sorry, that's, that's already a nightmare, so stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that Mr Grims is the eternal proponent of this action again with us that this escape from reality did not last indefinitely. At this point, we have, respected colleagues and colleagues, 260 thousand people living below the poverty line. Of this, there are 100,000 pensioners and 40,000 children. An hour ago we discussed the maintenance and served with a number that 33 000 500 children in Slovenia live with dependents less than €120. We have millions of holes in the budget, we have, here we can go thanking the government, 800 million annual holes in tax gifts to our friends, and we are dealing with convictions of communism. Because that's basically the subtitle of this action. Fascism and Nazism don't even care much. Every time the staff runs out, by the way, jumps into 1945 and utters some of its wet dreams about how society should be arranged and I don't know what. But for what it's worth, if you want, let's look at what history has offered with totalitarianism. For the sake of either the piette or the moment at which we are, because totalitarianism is not so foreign to today, but with the desire that something can be fixed today. We're going back today on the list of totalitarianisms. What's going on with Nate today? But it's something other than a totalitarian attack on some other countries, some other people, some other groups where they're different and, oh, because our capital elites have maybe some interest there. Is there anything we can fix there? Can I please have a resolution that someone is serving, where we will commit ourselves to non-violence to others here today and to avoid the thousands and thousands of victims for whom we are guilty? With the same momentum after some opening of the market, we can point to totalitarian capital interests when Yugoslav wars started. Or, as we watched in the '90s, and now it's the same thing, the American capital marches in the Middle East, and before that in Vietnam. What was behind here other than some totalitarian mentality? Or colonialism in the past centuries: Dutch, French, English and so forth in Asia, Africa, South America and so on. And the church. We are talking about the church quietly and about the Crusades, about the participation of the church with modern capital totalitarianism today and those 80 years ago. What we have on the table today is a political fight not against Nazism, against fascism, against communism, it is a political fight against capitalism. Capitalism is a machine that has always driven all models of conquest and discrimination and so on. Communism is now just one such convenient excuse. But see, advanced left-wing policies of the past have accumulated the greatest civilisational gains that we still enjoy today. Socialists, communists, anarchists fought the weekend, they fought election rights for women, they fought vacation, hospital and so on. Now we're going to wave against this with some cheap passwords about resolutions to fight communism?Oh, my God! Suggestions, count the species and go again to the first year of high school to history.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	I conclude the general debate. No amendments to the proposal for a declaration have been tabled. The proposal for a declaration will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. and 20 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.51 and resumed at 15.20.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 15, 16, 21, 22, 7, 18, 20, 6, 19 and 23. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please re-check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is suitable for further consideration. Natasa Sukič, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! There's no safe fracking. No one can guarantee that at a depth of 3,000,500 meters, something cannot be broken, leading to the leakage of toxic substances, groundwater pollution, drinking water pollution, and thus endangering human health. No one can guarantee that earthquakes will not occur in Petišovci, so this law must be adopted or allowed to be further discussed. Especially now that we see that Article 11 of the CAP9 has been planted, allowing concessionaires to extend the validity of mining rights by 18 months if they themselves express this initiative or wish first. Honourable Members and Members, in particular those who have run for office in Prekmurje and Pomurje, Member Breznik of the SDS, Member Horvat of the NSI, Member Lenart of the SDS, Member Šimenko of the SDS, Member Pojbič of the SDS, Ambassador Znidaršič of the SMC [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	Colleague Sukič, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Please, “What sort of cruise do you not read people in Petišovci, do you not understand the voyage for which it goes? [[…]] Do you not read the municipality of Lendava?» Please listen to the people from there, listen to the congregation who invites us to ban fracking. You come from there, these are your people, from your environment. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Look, please, without making a name, you know what the rules of procedure are. Explain your arguments, and that's it. Anyone else? No, no, no. Is the system okay? Are we going to the vote? We're voting. There are 87 Members present, with 46 votes against 41. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda – this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Fellowship Development and Disability and Maintenance Fund. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Act on public scholarship, development and disability and maintenance is appropriate for further consideration. Miha Kordish, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, chairman. With this law, single mothers, children who have been deprived of one of their parents and are entitled to maintenance, we allow easier access to maintenance allowance in the event that the maintenance has not been settled. The current procedure is in such a way that the single parent household, which has been deprived of its maintenance, must, by its right, turn to the court. Trials are long, painful, often there is a threat of violence in such families, or violence has already occurred in the past, only on the basis of enforcement and the stamp awarded by the court, can a single mother introduce and hope for compensation for unsettled subsistence. Only on the basis of this long-lasting and painful process of implementing social work centres do single families recognise subsistence as unpaid income and therefore receive higher financial social assistance. Otherwise, our social system treats these single mothers and children as if they are receiving maintenance even though it is not, and they are reducing their financial social assistance to this account. And we know that single parent households are one of the risk groups in this country. A fifth of all single households live below the poverty risk threshold. If we put between one of the parents and the child that this parent cares about and between a partner who is no longer present and is not paying maintenance, the country's instruments, we will help people, following the social state principle as an institution on the side of the weaker, to protect – protect psychologically and protect materially. And, of course, the only right thing to do is to adopt this law. After all, why else do we have a social state, rather than helping people, but not losing them through judicial labyrinths? We can even say from a step away that this marriage initiative actually debirocratises one of the elements of the social state in the area of unpaid subsistence. And at the end of my explanation, let me put it this way. The debate we had today during the hearing was relatively short, but I think it was still very productive. In this discussion we were also able to hear the announcement of support for the first reading by the Party of the Modern Centre and by the Slovenian National Party, for which we sincerely thank them, together with all the other supporters of this law. I hope we get through.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you, President, for your word. Why is it necessary to support this law today? First of all, because we will simplify the procedures for obtaining nutrients currently under way. Secondly, because once we support this proposal, we will no longer allow for unfair regulation, because the current regime is unfortunately completely inadequate. Thirdly, we will no longer prolong the grip of single - parent families who do not receive maintenance. Fourthly, because we also regulate such anomalies that the maintenance you don't actually get is counted in your income and at the same time raises your kindergarten table. Fifthly, because a lot of stories have single women talking to themselves. All you have to do is read them and hear them. Six, because today is the last international day of the fight against violence against women, to which we must say no decisively in Slovenia. Because it is one of the most widespread and harmful human rights violations. And by the way, the number of children their parents do not pay for maintenance has tripled from 2000 to today. There were over 4,000 of these children. As many as there are today, they probably only know about any other organ. To help these women and to help these children, we will vote in the LMŠ for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party was never about prestige. Not this time either. It was also never about where solutions come from, no matter what political atmosphere. That's the way it is today. The fact is, children are the most powerless beings. The fact is, single - parent families already have so many problems and various efforts are needed to live and survive. Most of the time, it's a matter of single mothers, more than single fathers. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, given that a number of single mothers have turned to us, we have drawn up a marriage, here I have, which is actually solving the same matter as Levica proposed today. But as we say, it is not about prestige, so no matter what it is likely to fix, add and change, we will support the marriage in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that we will support this law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Today is also, as we have already heard, an international day to fight violence against women, and we have an opportunity to help them at least a little. When we talk about women, we also talk about mothers, about those who raise their own children. By adopting this law, we will make it easier for them and their children to obtain livelihoods. So we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvat has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After re-examination of the amendment of the law and despite the fact that Minister Cigler has prepared this solution in systemic legislation, we have decided to support this law in our first reading today. We've changed our mind. Finally, Minister Cigler was the one who brought him to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly had adopted many solutions that had been waiting for perhaps ten years or more. We'll vote in favour. However, I would like to say that we cannot bear the brutal attacks that our colleague Alexander Reberšek has experienced today. This is the only Member, the only Member who can be deeply bowed down to him because he is the only Member who has helped at least two single mothers to build a house with good people. And he's not gonna stop here. So Alexander, my present.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are here to explain our vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[in favour of 85 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Support for a European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a declaration and since the amendments to the final provision were not tabled at the meeting of the assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. The explanation of vote shall be given by Primož Siter on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The postwar Europe is built on antifascism. Anti-fascism as a social climate is a prerequisite for Europe, which is democratic, non-discriminatory and inclusive. This declaration, which we have before us or the resolution that we have before us, sadly, equates fascism, Nazism and Stalinism and essentially relativizes fascism. The consequences of such documents can be seen today on the European map, when the right hand seems to have lost all the compass and all the burdens before flirting with fascist aspirations. It is no coincidence that it lasts about ten years from the birth of this declaration to the so-called shameless inflammation of fascist regimes, as we see in neighbouring Hungary, Poland and so on. But in Europe, in antifascist Europe, we are committed to antifascism. We are committed to anti-fascism in Levi, so we do not support these documents of declaration and resolution. We will vote against it. However, we look forward to the fact or we are pleased to see that the fellow Members of Desus and SMC already opposed these documents in the previous government. I sincerely hope that this anti-fascist attitude will continue now and that they will not be able to bow down to fascism just out of fear of the current government they are working with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the declaration is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2022 of 28. 9. 2021. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly shall adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Mag. Bojana Muršič has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The proposal for a final budget account for 2020 clearly proves that the government has not lost control of public finances only in recent months, but is its way of doing so. If the purpose of the final account were only to sum up the individual sums of the budget items and to make them known to the National Assembly, it would even be possible to confirm such a final account. However, the final account is prepared and accepted precisely to assess the efficiency of government management with public money, to verify the deviations from the budgetary accounts and to explain the reasons for them. So it is not enough for the government to explain the derogations over and over and over again only with one and only argument – the epidemic. If the government has consistently argued that, due to exceptional circumstances, it cannot respect the laws, acts of the National Assembly and other regulations and judgments, then it is not up to the task for which it exists. The Government should act responsibly and legally manage this country. We will not support the Social Democrats of the final budget account for 2020. Not because we doubt these numbers, but because we believe them. However, with any support, we do not wish to legitimise such government planning. The Social Democrats will vote against the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 12. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Jože Lenart has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The government, by amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, is further increasing expenditure by EUR 670 million. Of course, we should draw up a balance and explain to us what such increased consumption is intended for. There was no budget balance, there was no explanation in the draft act. Of course, it is not clear what is the purpose of such a high structural debt, which is the highest in the European Union and leaves the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia in a unclear state and a high risk for the future. Such a situation reflects the total irresponsibility of this government. The budget is the financial plan of the country with fiscal policy objectives, development objectives, priority areas and political and strategic priorities of the government. In doing so, it is of particular importance for democratic governance of public affairs at the highest level. The proposed arrangements suggest a potential violation of the principle of the division of power and an interference with the competence of the National Assembly to adopt the State budget. Given that we are expecting a new PKP law, it is already quite clear that this increase in expenditure will be intended for the distribution of pre-election sugars. The amendments to the decision in the LMŠ are opposed due to the complete lack of transparency in the process of its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 42. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 42.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law prohibiting the placing on the market of certain plastic products for single use in the Republic of Slovenia. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a third vote on the law banning the placing on the markets of certain disposable plastic products. Therefore, we Members have reached consensus to address the environmental problems of today. Plastic products and products for single short-term use are a problem, a problem that arises when we draw oil and natural gas from the depths of thousands of meters below the sea. A problem that arises and remains. We are therefore aware that plastic products come from nothing and disappear into nothing. Plastics is therefore a problem that pollutes our watercourses, our seas, and endangers pure drinking water. We need to be aware that it passes through aquatic organisms into the food cycle, into humans, and has also been found in the embryo bed. Recent research has even confirmed that it's spreading through the air. With the law ahead of us, we address important environmental problems and challenges while at the same time pushing the path of the emergence of a circular economy, zero strategies, highlighting the possibility and promoting recycling, promoting reuse and changing consumer habits. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the views expressed, I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We will also support this law in Levica, because since 2017 we have been working on a number of recommendations on how to prevent the use of plastic products for single use. Every time we received high support for these recommendations, nothing happened. And so the marriage solution is the only way to finally do something, even now at the time of the crown, when we saw that plastic consumption and consumption had jumped. In Levi, we unanimously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, with the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body to the draft decree and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the draft decision. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Referendum for the Establishment of the Municipality of Golnik by excluding the part of the Municipality of Kranj into the new municipality of Golnik with a proposal for a decree. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A referendum for the establishment of the municipality Golnik is being held by excluding part of the Municipality of Kranj into the new municipality of Golnik. An explanation of vote shall be given on behalf of the Members of the Matej Udovč Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Today it is not about my self-promotion, as has been highlighted too often, that we are today deciding whether we will allow people the constitutional right to be the most democratic country women and locals, as certainly the referendum has been, told and decided where they want to live, both they and their craftsmen. I believe that we Members and Members are able to decide without political pressure and other pressures. It is up to all of us, whether we muster up courage and give people this constitutional right. I'll vote for it myself. At the end of all this there is no winner, but it will be a satisfaction that we together have made this right possible for the people. On the basis of this, I will vote in favour of the referendum and constitutional rights of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	I'll do it on my own, though. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Wait a minute. Is there anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members? I guess not. In his own name, he has the word mag. Cousin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	I'm in. But for a strong Kranj, for development, so that Kranj will remain the regional center of Gorenjska. But people well know what the procedures are to reach the new congregation. And that's not the way some people picked it up. So I will absolutely vote against this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, processor. We will also vote against this referendum in Levica. I was elected next to Škofje Loka in Kranj, and I think that the Municipality of Kranj as one of Gorenjska's engines must be protected from further fragmentation, where the fragmentation of municipalities in this country can be brought, and we can see practically everywhere else. Resources that should be pooled and invested in the common benefit of one another are crushed only to produce not some specific local needs and their satisfaction, but such and other small clans that monopolize the few resources that exist elsewhere. At the end of the day, however, people are at the same or usually worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-25-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. This made the proposal for a decision proposed by the Committee irrelevant. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 27th meeting of the Assembly.
