ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Carmen Furman, Susanna Beautiful Šimenko, Eva Irgle, Janja Slug, Matey Udovč, Jerca Korče, mag. Bojana Mursic from 12 o'clock on, Dr. Franc Trček, Alexander Reberšek, Ferenc Horvát, Aljaž Kovacič, Marijan Pojbič, Primož Siter, Luka Mesec and Nik Prebil from 2.30 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, participation at a meeting outside the Assembly was announced by Mr Monika Gregorčič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Get ready, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, in the National Assembly, we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law, to which citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have often warned us that the dinosaur, which calls for different solutions, has become obsolete. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we have studied the problems thoroughly and have come to the conclusion that changes are absolutely necessary. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the bill solves the most pressing problems in the area of multi-housing buildings, non-profit rentals and lack of housing. We are aware that the law does not fully address the problem, but we welcome the progress of this proposal. I believe that we and the Ministry of the Environment will be able to move on to the nuts, which is a comprehensive recast of the Housing Law. If I make a little joke, now we have a fiche without two wheels, and in the previous debate we dreamed of a Mercedes. I wish we could fix the fiche first, and then we'll think about a better car. We all want the development of the Danube, but we cannot achieve it overnight. I absolutely welcome the lowering of the required consensus in the area of multi-accommodation buildings, making it easier to carry out various works on residential buildings. Here we are talking mainly about consensus, which does not require a building permit with more than 75 per cent per floor owners and which requires a building permit with 100 per cent per 75 floor owners. Those who have now undertaken renovations of the multi-family building know very well that the path to success has been very thorny, especially in the operations that now require 100 per cent consent. That was almost an impossible mission. We do not have such absolute democracy in this esteemed congregation, and now one lodger can hold the entire building in check. I would also like to draw attention to the disturbing stories that have taken place in the past when one householder prevented the construction of the elevator that a disabled person needed. Thank God we solved this with the 2019 novel. In Novi Slovenija - Christian Democrats we have a digital breakthrough in Slovenia in our programme, so I support the possibility of e-voting high-level owners on multi-inhabitant building management business, which allows for faster negotiation during the time of an invisible enemy and is also safer for the health of residents. We live in a time when there's no generation left who can't use Zoom. I support an increase in the value of non-profit rents from the current 2.63 euros to 3 half euros. We must be aware that the value has not changed since 2007, i.e. for 14 years. As a result, sufficient funds were not collected to cover the costs, and at the same time it was a negative factor for the construction or purchase of new rental apartments. We have not forgotten about the most vulnerable group here, as subsidies for non-profit housing will also increase. I continue to support the implementation of an external audit on the management of management business, thereby giving more power to residents and breaking the current almost absolute inviolability of the manager. I personally support a short notice from 90 to 60 days. This will partially protect the lender, who is almost insecure. I hope that this measure will help to improve the broadcasting of empty apartments. I still argue that the apartments are empty because a reduction in the tax rate is needed. The former government of Levi led this up to an absurd level of 27.5 per cent, which I personally believe is the main reason for the black or large number of empty apartments. I am of the opinion that a lower tax would result in more tax collection and less empty apartments. I would also like to point out the criticism of the rental service. I see this idea as utopian because of knowing the subject of the rental service. We don't want another inactive state mastodon. I do not see the establishment of this service as a solution for housing owners to choose to rent apartments anymore. This must be the work of the free market. It is our job and the task of the country to improve the environment, not to establish state-owned companies. Everyone in the hall, including in New Slovenia - Christian Democrats would like to solve the problem of young and young families, but there will be a lot to do in this area, especially to change the way of thinking. I think that's the key issue. Personally, I do not think that this is a problem and not the main culprit of the law of Jasbinsk, but the failure to act for the last 30 years. I will break the law because I see a step towards a solution to the sky's absorbing problems, and at the same time, I call once again for a comprehensive reform of the law. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the problem I see in the countryside. I am aware that there is a large number of housing shortages in cities, but also outside cities, especially in the countryside, I am concerned about the problem of moving young families out of the village because of the non-life demands of state agencies, which prefer to see houses demolishing themselves as a capacity for action. That's why the countryside is empty. Just for instance, three young couples have moved out of my village, but unfortunately that's another story. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get ready, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! It is the public interest and responsibility of the State that active housing policy enables a person to live a decent life. Slovenia has largely abandoned the market since its independence and thus reduced its active power. More and more citizens, including young and young families, are becoming increasingly difficult to access housing. But let me touch the past a little bit. In the past, we had, I'll say, a rather orderly housing policy, but everything from the Jóbin law forwards with the laws of tone and tone. It would therefore make more sense today to draw up a system law that would fully follow the Resolution on the National Housing Programme, which was adopted for the period 2015-2025. So, there's been an apartment sale with the Izbinski Act. The money that was gathered at the time did not go back into the construction of new apartments or the purchase of new apartments, so there was also an irregular situation. We've lost the system's way of raising money for housing. This is also confirmed by the public records of municipalities and housing funds. In addition to the young generation looking for and needing housing, in Slovenia we also have a large number of owners of apartments, who are older, living in large apartments, which are functionally inappropriate and especially cost-intensive. These older ones are falling into hidden poverty, as they are increasingly paying operating costs and taking over the cost of maintaining a multi-family building, making their living conditions worse, while at the same time the housing they live in, they lose value and they also fail. So, if I may say so, it's a year-long stalemate in the residential area. Today we have a bill on the table proposed by the Government, which partially solves the problems of owners of apartments, managers and housing funds. However, in my opinion, this law does not demonstrate the ambition that we would expect, or that comes also from the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which – this resolution – should pursue the four most important objectives. The first is a balanced offer of suitable apartments. In doing so, I am asked whether this law follows this. Although Slovenia is still considered to have relatively large ownership apartments, of course for reasons of the Law of Jasbinska. However, there is a great lack of housing and a discrepancy between the needs of the inhabitants of apartments at a specific location, their availability, and the quality of dwellings. Unfortunately, this is most evident in Ljubljana, where we have the most migration. We all want to be and do our jobs or live as close as possible to our work, and that is why the fact that housing in Ljubljana is too small is too expensive and even obsolete. The new apartments, which are being built in Ljubljana, reach a dizzying height. The square metre of new construction in Ljubljana amounts to more than 4 000 euros. Who can afford that, I'm asking a question. The most powerful. Of course, such building is in the interest of investors, as it also achieves the greatest profits. On the other hand, older apartments are being rented in Ljubljana at extremely high prices and also – crucially, very important – under uncertain conditions. Of course, we also have some uninhabited housing fund, which is being turned over illegally or even through Airbnb and Booking, which has become increasingly profitable over the past period, making the offer of rental apartments poorer, especially those of the highest quality. Of course, in the past year, this may not have been so exceptional or a blow, for the crown crisis has done its part. In recent years, tourism has brought high profits, resulting in lower or higher prices for quality apartments. The undeniable fact is that in Slovenia there are more than tens of thousands of rental apartments, we are short of accommodation units, and we are short of supply apartments. The law mentions the raising of the point of market rent, so I wonder whether this increase in rent will allow the construction of new apartments. Will this law provide a permanent source of funding? Furthermore, in the light of the resolution, there is a second objective to facilitate access to housing. In solving housing problems, the most striking are the young generation who create families with extremely low incomes, at least at the beginning of their careers. If a young family wants to become independent and start over in their homes or in their own apartment, it is necessary to rent loans. And they hire young families or both parents, and then parents, and you won't believe it, just old parents. And not for a period of ten years, but for a longer period of time, and only so can they provide very, very small apartments, but that they can live their lives or on their own. Therefore, the law would also expect to solve this problem. Promoting the renovation of the existing housing fund, including for the needs of the elderly, would be very important, as I have already mentioned where the problems are. I also believe that energy rehabilitation of buildings, regardless of the planned energy renovation of buildings and that we will run for European funds, should have the resources provided in the budget itself to promote the energy rehabilitation of buildings, as this would have an impact on the reduction of the costs associated with the use of housing and also on the material situation of people. Quality and functional housing are also one of the objectives. If we look at that, 30 years ago, there were quite a lot of housing purchases under the Law and that 70 percent of this housing fund is over 30 years old, many apartment buildings or multi-inhabitation buildings are long-term, depreciated and absolutely necessary renovations. The law itself lists the need for the majority of owners in multi-housing buildings to start rebuilding the facility, now falling to 75 percent, which is a good sign that multi-housing buildings will be able to rebuild and start the necessary investments. However, it is not possible to overlook the fact that this percentage could still be reduced in my opinion, but it could be just over 50 percent, saying 51 percent. However, we must not forget why people in multi-housing or multi-housing buildings do not give consent, because we can have six of them in a multi-housing building, which counts only and only eight units, where there are pensioners. And only one pensioner, who has no idea of the size of an apartment – it can only be a one-bedroom apartment or a one-and-a-half-bedroom apartment, and one income, a pension that is less than 500 euros – cannot therefore give consent to intervene in the rehabilitation of the facade or the replacement of the building furniture. God forbid I should mention the need to change the roof; they simply cannot. And unless we find some solution for these people who are owners on the one hand, but they are owners who are ultimately poor because they simply have a flat and nothing but an apartment and an apartment just to live in this apartment. Therefore, this consensus is also important for this percentage to be reduced. On the other hand, however, we need to think of those who cannot give this consent – since it is likely that everyone wants to have a facade, because the cost of his apartment will be reduced, his heating costs will be reduced — but he cannot afford it. And here's the problem, and here the state should take care of those who are at the edge of the social minimum. Therefore, it is also necessary to reflect on this part and to expect that there will be a step forward in this Housing Law. Unfortunately, I will also touch upon these changes of the Housing Law, which in 1991 allowed the purchase of housing for those then holders of housing rights, but when this law allowed for redemption, certain injustices arose. One of the injustices appeared as homeowners because the law did not provide for this possibility at the time, but treated the household apartment as an official, solely for the performance of household works. The new law in 2003 partially completed this problem. It summed up the formal distinction between the category of tenants in residential housing who had housing rights and those who had the right to temporary use of the apartment. And here again came the new injustice. But it's not just about the difference, it's just about understanding. In a large-scale study, this difference was also found by the Institute of Real Estate in Maribor. And yes, look at the fraction, in 2011, after 20 years this injustice was only abolished so that they were finally able to obtain an apartment under more favourable conditions over a period of five years, but yes, after seven months of the implementation of this law, the Act on the Balance of Public Finances, which again took away these acquired housing rights. Therefore, all those applications submitted after 31 May were rejected. But we have some who have managed to deal with this administrative bureaucracy by 31 May. Here was, I think, seven of these tenants who were staying in the house that managed to arrange and buy the apartment, and we have the other 250 who stayed in the air again. And once again, we had one injustice. To touch what's wrong with the marriage itself. The law does not provide a systemic source, does not regulate the area for the development of housing societies, nor does it introduce regulation of enhanced grey supervision of the renting market. I have a problem with shortening the notice period from 90 days to 60 days and shortening the time limit set by the court in court proceedings from 60 days to 30 days. I'll put myself in the role of tenant of the apartment. If I have a shorter period of 90 to 60 days, this is particularly problematic for a young family who will find it extremely difficult to find a new home within two months. Social work centres are also extremely, extremely difficult to respond to in such a short time. A problem arises, for if a family loses an apartment or their renting relationship is cancelled, they have to take care of their children. This is where big problems arise, for children need to be taken care of. If the social work center can't take care of the whole family, we're looking for foster families for the children. I think three months is kind of the real option where the situation can be solved. So don't forget these very vulnerable groups of people, and here's the big problem that this deadline is getting shorter. I do not believe that the change that has been written in order to encourage the owners of empty apartments to broadcast. I do not see it, but you may enlighten me further or then, if the law is suitable for further consideration, explain it to the committee itself. I also propose better regulation of the right of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to sell habitable municipal land for multi-residential construction. This preliminary right should extend to all public housing funds, non-profit housing organisations and public institutions providing different forms of non-profit housing in the public interest. I propose that the pre-emptive right be extended to all land and property which is sold by any public institution and not just the municipality. Think about it. Even with regard to the tightening of inspection. Of course, without an adequate number of inspectors, this will not be possible to do so, even if they do not have additional options for action on matters related to the management of multi-housing buildings, inadequate interventions in them and the acquisition of certain common premises. If the inspectors don't have more authority around here, then I don't know how we're gonna solve this. It may also make sense to adjust the rental subsidy system to promote the construction of public rental apartments. However, I have little question to ask, as my colleague has pointed out before me, about the introduction of a public hire service, as is the case with this proposed law. Here I see that the public rental service could have, or see, it in that it is solely intended to regulate ownership relations between owners and tenants of apartments, thereby burdening the owners and also providing legal assistance to tenants who enter into a lease relationship. Because also tenants are not real learners, and many times anything can happen, which then somehow turns out to be a problem in this area. Although I see public employment as a contribution in this place, I do not see it coming. Otherwise, a further discussion will show whether this is positive or not, but I do not see that this would lead to significantly more housing being placed on the market. Then the question arises to me, what will be the financing of the public employment service here. This is likely to be a cost of the country or budget, so it is still a bit of a pre-debate. But since we're at first reading, it makes sense for us to talk about it more. But I must say, I miss a few things in the bill itself. Of course, as I said at the outset, we lack at least 10,000 public apartments. They should be encouraged by affordable housing, by building affordable housing and suitable housing. Because, in fact, if three-bedroom or five-bedroom apartments are now being built, these are essentially more expensive than two-bedroom apartments available somewhere. It would then be necessary to include or provide this system source for the construction and renovation of dwellings, the establishment of financial instruments for the provision of favourable loans with a handle for more than 30 years, since the period of 30 years is a long time, but I must say, on the other hand, that it places such a burden on you, as it is a property you are purchasing in Ljubljana, is such a cost that only a few can afford it. Then ensure that the State guarantees the rental of loans for the construction of public rental apartments. Then we also have the most vulnerable groups to provide funds for the acquisition of new housing units, as is the case with the resolution. For the purpose of solving the housing problem of young people after the end of the study, it would be necessary to provide a model of transitional dwellings, perhaps in student homes, for at least a period of time, possibly this. However, I believe that there are too few beds in student homes today, but it would still be necessary to upgrade or expand this. It may be necessary to consider tax reliefs for private investment by private owners who rent apartments in the long term, not in the short term, because this will somehow provide longer-term protection. And here, perhaps even with the inspectors, the renters who really give away the rent could somehow get hit in the pocket. So I would say that they would not be afforded any tax advantages in order to really consider whether they would set the rent in such a way that it would not be a party. On the other hand, there is an even greater problem that some properties are leased in such a way that a portion of the rent is entered into the contract and the rest must be covered in the pocket by the tenant. That is how I think there are problems in Slovenia that we have somehow fallen asleep in recent years or that it has fallen apart too much, I will say. The rent should be based on economic principles and ensure fair and social security for all citizens. The conditions for affordable rent must be effective rent. We will also have to think about a new concept of renting, and this is what a colleague mentioned on Wednesday if we want to keep the fund and create new investments in public rental apartments. In the case of rent, taking into account the rent subsidy and residential operating costs, it might also be possible to consider that these costs would not be too burdensome for the household to be a share, possibly 25 % or the household’s income. In this regard too, it would make sense to think that rent and cost do not put your household or young family in even more trouble and then ultimately have a major problem. Greater security should also be given to the rental relationship. The same rights should exist, and also that I will not only speak rights, we are always talking about rights and obligations between tenants and lessors. It would also make most sense, what we are missing here, to improve living conditions and to revitalize degraded areas, to provide resources for functional renovation of dwellings, to provide incentives for comprehensive and sustainable renovations of residential buildings and neighbourhoods that will be energy-efficient, to provide incentives for the development and support of pilot housing projects, to enable active land policy. And yes, to conclude, one of the conditions would be a comprehensive amendment to the legislation that I have already discussed at the outset, a key condition for increasing the volume of housing resources. And yes, if we want to be successful, it will be necessary to raise funds by at least a tenth of the European Union's GDP average, 0.4 percent. But, as I said at the outset, we in Slovenia should not rely solely and only on the resources of the European Union, we must look for our own source, a long-term resource. Until now, there is not enough of it in our budget, and until the state provides this systemic source of funding for housing financing, we will always be spinning around in a vicious circle and constantly and again wondering why we are not able to provide the necessary and sufficient number of dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word is Nick Prebil, prepare Leon Merjasec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present, all well greeted! The housing law or this novel, which is before us today, is just one of the stones, or one of the beginnings in the mosaic of housing policy, which we need more in Slovenia. In the LMŠ we welcome this continuation of something that has been well prepared in the government of Marjana Sarca and when we talk about housing policy, we will certainly always engage constructively on these issues. The new law is certainly not ideal, nor does it concern all open problems, but it is more than necessary to move forward with something that has been initiated. We all know that the interests of social groups are intertwined. We co-create and provide conditions for the creation of a single life for young and socially disadvantaged people, while at the same time allowing them to enter those active representatives of society, which has a bearing on the strengthening of these intergenerational relations, which are essential for the creation of intergenerational solidarity, which we already know in Slovenia. Before Mr Chernigoj said what was not done, see, in the minority government of Marjana Šarca, much more was done for housing issues in a rather short time, what NSI has ever done in the area of housing policy. Just to refresh the memory, because I can see that things are quickly forgotten in our country, we moved the land from DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, then the construction of an additional thousand 500 apartments. The Housing Credit Guarantees Act has been prepared; the Budget Implementation Act has raised the ceiling of the state guarantees issued by 200 million for each year and has raised the funds for the implementation of housing activities well in the 2020 budget as well. Yesterday we talked about the Recovery and Resistance Plan, where we are supposed to contribute to solving housing problems and, in fact, some of the broader community-related problems, including in relation to young people. Such things are high-priority, and these things also go hand in hand with the more needed green transition and digitisation. To return directly to the content of the law. As far as housing inspection is concerned, I am pleased that a step forward is being taken in this area of work; last but not least, the solutions are very similar to those proposed in the previous government. There is certainly a need to control the work of managers when they interfere with some common parts of a multi-family building. It also seems good to me that this entity is defined more precisely as an economic operator who deals with some third parties and, of course, supervision is absolutely necessary. There's a difference. We have clearly defined a more transparent and more sophisticated digitalised description of the registry of managers. In your proposal, I see that the matter remains somehow at the same level, so I think we need to consider an update on this as well. However, as the colleague said, if we do not increase the number of inspectors – and not only speak in this area, we have a shortage of inspectors in all areas throughout the country – we will also find it difficult to implement this provision of this law. As far as the public service is concerned, it is certainly good and more than necessary, as it is said, but there is still a great deal of fear. At the Ministry of Environment and Space you estimated that in 2022 you would get 100 and then 500 apartments and so on. Personally, I think this spectrum is going too slowly. These numbers are too low for what we need now, but I also believe that these numbers are likely to be unattainable with the system currently envisaged. I would like you to consider some practice from abroad that is clear that such a system has not come to life until certain tax reliefs for the lessee or lessors have been put in place. In the Czech Republic, for example, the Government of Korea provides a loan, say to a young family, amounting to 60 per cent of the value of the investment, while the rest of the loan is provided to themselves at a commercial bank. In Germany, for example, the state grants a loan via the State Young People's Credit Bank at a more favourable rate. In the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that such a role could still be assumed by the State SID Bank. The law already allows that. However, it is necessary to clearly define ways, rights, conditions and so on. I think you're gonna have to think about it here at the government. If I were to go to the end, I'd have one question. In fact, the law refers to substantially larger financial investments, some investments, but it does not provide for the establishment of any systematic financing of these objectives. I'd like to know how you can guarantee that. As already mentioned, it may be the wrong direction that the law no longer provides for the establishment of housing cooperatives that would increase the housing fund. As I said earlier, it will not happen on behalf of the public hire service, in my opinion, unless we involve even what I have said, and it is certainly worth considering here. I would like to see matters within the framework of housing policy significantly more ambitious and to address some of the real problems facing young and old alike. The Ministry should now consider what demographics will be like in a few years, and also take into account the proposals made by some professional public, because I know that they have already been presented in the context of the public hearing of the law and, of course, those who have already been involved in such policies for much longer than the representatives of the policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is Leon Merjasec, prepare Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The existing Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law, which dates back to 2003, has been completed four times and needs to be upgraded. In resolution 2015-2025 itself, there is a document that responds to the actual situation and, on the other hand, the resolution points out that accessibility to suitable housing has been hampered recently. We're running out of public rental apartments. In particular, access to housing for young people, socially weak and vulnerable groups in locations where demand is highest is made difficult. On the other hand, we have about 20 percent of the unpopulated housing fund in private apartments, mostly in Ljubljana. These apartments are, for example, unfit to stay or are empty due mainly to the fear of default or other breach of a contract with the status of tenants. Therefore, the proposed law proposes solutions by upgrading the system itself, such as the protection of the housing fund, the more efficient management of multi-housing buildings, the increase in the size of the fund in public rental apartments, the short-term cancellation process, lease contracts and the transfer of housing to the owner and, in my opinion, the most important proposal is to make it easier for young people, older people and other vulnerable groups of people to have access to housing. So far, the problem has also been the basis for determining the non-profit rent, a so-called point that has not changed since 2007 and amounts to 2.63 euros. This price of the point no longer covers the cost of using the apartment. However, the proposed value of the point shall be raised to 3.5 after the proposed law but shall be coordinated within three years. According to the current assessment, this price does not cover costs and therefore the Housing Fund and the municipalities decide to sell non-profit apartments. However, the law itself allows the state and municipalities to implement the housing policy. The bill itself has positive effects, I think, on the economy, where there will be more investment in reconstruction and investment in new apartments themselves. That is why, in my opinion, the law is good at first reading and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Get ready, Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. I will come from this, the proposaler, the Government – this bill is based on the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2015. However, we also know the Resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022 and will say that this proposal does not focus on it, but there are very specific issues – otherwise young people are also mentioned, but I think there is very little. That is why today's debate would focus more on this area of young people, as also in the List of Marjan Šarcs, in our government at that time also covered this resolution and took it very seriously. In the LMŠ, the housing problem has been and is still one of the key political objectives, of course, by achieving the goals, which is that young people will reach the apartment; or renting, in the first place in terms of financial capacity, or ownership in the next phase, when young people are able to do so financially. Why is this area so important to us in LMŠ? First of all, young people are a key part of society and represent a pillar of development and the future of the country. Another time. Young people are an anti-weight ageing society that represents us and in the future increases this huge financial problem for the provision of the pension fund. In these days we have discussed the demographic fund, which unfortunately does not bring that added value or saves the long-term sustainability of pensions by transferring this state property from the plate to the plate in order to better satisfy ourselves. We have made this very clear in the debate, and that is why my aim today is to further explore this area. Thirdly, if we can take care of young people at their 20s to integrate them into the labour market as soon as possible, of course not as a joke, this is very important, but with regular employment, we will thus solve several problems with one measure. Of course, everything also relates to the decommissioning of the demographic fund. What would need to be added to this than to start taking action in the right places and pay more attention to this area in order to ensure better conditions for young people. If we do not do so today, young educated people will continue to go well to more developed countries, where they are offered apartments in addition to better paid work. This is in particular the advantage of these more developed countries, which maintain their growth and priority over developing countries precisely in exploiting cheaper labour, of course in the larger part of the labour-intensive sectors where the added value is lower, and for the more demanding technological jobs they attract young people and professionals from developing countries and therefore leave us. Where, then, do the profits accumulate, where more resources from taxes and wage contributions are accumulated according to the employee, and where can countries then provide a higher standard per capita, where the housing we are talking about today is also important? See, good practice in this area of accessibility to young people's housing and deficit personnel is being implemented in the city of Vienna, if anyone has looked closely, and for decades one of the political parties has been very committed to this. So, even in Austria itself, there are differences in the development strategy across countries, and I am sure that the city of Vienna has this added advantage in the area of housing accessibility, although the whole of Austria also gives much to do so. Today, too, at this point, we must draw attention to the good opportunity that actually offers us to join the European Union at the time of the current crisis. Why? There we have a good five billion resources as an opportunity to get out of the crisis, which we must certainly make good use of, that is, not for short-term objectives, especially for long-term objectives. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan must specifically cover this area, this is the responsibility of this government, as we have also found yesterday. See, the three points that we have discussed this week are very well connected. And if this is not the key goal of the young people that Slovenia needs for the development and future of the country, then I really don't know what we can build on tomorrow. In the LMŠ, we have also built a strategy for solving the problem of housing for young people, as I mentioned, in the Resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022, which mainly relates to the living situation. Regrettably, however, the findings of the 2013 resolution strategy remain unresolved and have even deepened; no matter which government it was. If we look 20 years ago, we can't blame one government, everyone should bite on this matter more specifically. In Slovenia, young people are still staying in the hotel the longest in Europe – of course, if we have not moved much in this time for access to non-profit rentals and later purchase of non-profit apartments. In Slovenia, young people are entering the labour market at the latest – of course, if they are not stimulated by legislation, if we encourage recreational work instead of regular employment, which would provide social security for their future entry into the third life period. As we see, even in the area of housing legislation, housing policies we write resolutions, political commitments, but we do not know how to implement them. With just a few of these action plans, resolutions and commitments, I have come to know and come to similar conclusions over the past three years: that we do not move anything, or that we do not. I am talking about a seven-year forest chain action plan, energy strategies, commitments to build homes for the elderly, the establishment of a demographic fund, housing policy, and I could count a lot more. Of course, today’s problems in most of these areas are even greater than they were ten or twenty years ago. And once again, no matter what political option has ever been in power, we are all responsible for what we have not done in the past. So, more difficult and easier access to housing for young, young families, for the people of the future we need, is an important foundation for the development and future of the country, to reach first the average countries of the European Union, where they are the best. This is the goal of the future generation if we are realistic. Therefore, all attention must be based on young people. Finally, let me mention another good solution from my mayor, who has recently encouraged the purchase of current tenants of non-profit apartments. Such resources then invest in the construction of new non-profit apartments, of course, priority for young people, for the young families we build on, and increase the number of people, the average and so on, as well as better conditions for the development of the municipality. In the end, I'd like to point out another problem. See, we need a domestic bank in the housing policy strategy; a bank that will follow up on the implementation of the housing policy strategy. And what is left for us at home – a few smaller banks that we certainly cannot use without merger for such an important and strong project as the national housing strategy. But we also have an AIDS bank that owns 100 percent of the country. But will that remain in the future? Quite recently, it has been heard that the government of Janez Janša intends to sell the SID bank. I say where there's smoke is fire. But we can only hope that it will not all go together on the path of media sales, media ownership owned by SDS or by Orban's work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Get ready for Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, Mr Robert Rožac, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to see the majority support for this novel housing law and I am following a detailed discussion from Wednesday, including this last one, colleague Jožet Lenart, and I note that we have a lot of common points in this area, in the area of housing policy. And that's good. Housing policy is, in my understanding, extremely important. It may sound pathetic or whatever you judge, the country's housing policy, in this case Slovenia, is also in strong correlation with the future of the nation. But it's not a topic today. Like many before me, I repeat our position, the view of New Slovenia, that our commitment to providing young people, especially young families, with a affordable first apartment. Housing policy concerns a very wide and complex area of housing issues from rental relations, housing, which is strongly linked to financial resources, to the real estate market and could also be listed. I really don't think there's an analysis on the agenda here today that the client has done more for the apartments, and I don't think that's important. It is crucial that we have common points that we have a common view, that we first adopt the resolution we have, the Resolution on the National Housing Programme from 2015 to 2025. Soon this period will end and it is time to start preparing a new one. It will probably also be different because of the epidemic that has thrown Europe, the world and Slovenia off course. With housing policy, of course, we want to improve accessibility to all types of dwellings and provide adequate financial assistance to those who cannot afford to pay their own costs. It also seeks to improve the conditions for the management of residential buildings and to promote better quality of dwellings and the living environment. An important objective of housing policy is to contribute to the protection of the family, to the protection of the elderly and the disabled, as well as to other vulnerable groups. Colleagues and colleagues, when we considered and negotiated the content of the coalition treaty, we highlighted three key strategic objectives regarding housing policy, which are, as we say, part of our coalition commitment. Maybe I'll just point out two. First, decentralisation, consistent regional development. I believe that we all understand what decentralisation means in housing policy: the more we build in Ljubljana, the more we will empty the countryside. I can tell you that this is happening today without any numerical information. It's my personal, kind of quantitative, qualitative view, which I actually believe you're all experiencing, too. For example, not because of this housing policy, there are, of course, other reasons why Pomurje, as a statistical region, has lost 22,000 municipalities in the last 13 years. Something is the result of natural growth, negative, and another is the so-called migration balance. That's dramatic. In 13 years from 122 thousand to 100,000, the population is reduced. The second point we follow in the coalition treaty as our coalition commitment is the renovation of housing policy, the expansion of the housing fund, with emphasis on young and young families, the establishment of a systemic source for housing. Speaking of sources, I remember, long ago, I think that in the 2004-2008 mandate, we passed the Mortgage Loans Act and then found that these mortgage loans simply don't come back to life. I'm sorry, I don't have the data, but there's probably one analysis that needs to be done here why commercial banks aren't -- I don't know -- maybe they're interested in these kind of credit arrangements. Of course, in Slovenia we urgently need a comprehensive regulation of the housing problem, here I agree with those who have discussed similarly, but what this law brings, which brings changes to the Housing Law, thereby essentially renewing housing policy, creating the right conditions for the construction and maintenance of apartments, but not the burden of socially disadvantaged tenants. The law defines these goals well and also solves them well. We must also agree with the following statement that in Slovenia we are facing a significant shortage of rental apartments, especially for young, older and socially disadvantaged groups. The amendment of the housing law — which we are considering — therefore allows for the construction of an adequate number of available public rental apartments. The changes will help to strengthen the public housing fund. This will allow the establishment of a public rental service to increase the indebtedness of housing funds, harmonise the amount of non-profit rent and adapt the subsidisation scheme to protect socially disadvantaged households. As it is said, an extremely complex area is housing policy. My assessment is that the law addresses the most pressing problems, the most pressing problems the Slovenian society is dealing with today to solve them well. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will also support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa, prepare for Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! I agree that housing is very difficult, especially for young, older, socially disadvantaged people. The marriage took place in 2003 and has already been overrun by time. New apartments are too small on the market, not enough for the market, the demand is much higher than the offer for sale and rental. The owners are emotionally attached to their properties and do not want to sell them or rent them out, even though they may be left alone in a large apartment or in an overcrowded apartment. It is true that the ownership and leasing structure has changed considerably with the Law of Jasbinš. That's when the tenants became homeowners. The biggest mistake in this law was that the apartments were valued in Ljubljana or, for example, in Beltinci. For example, the same area of the apartment was assessed there as in Ljubljana. Thus, the owner, who later sold his apartment in Ljubljana, was able to buy three or four equivalent apartments in Beltinci. A major problem today is the height of the old point of rent of non-profit dwellings, which has remained unchanged since 2007. The amount is still 2.63 euros and does not cover maintenance costs and minimum renovations. According to the proposed law, the amendment, this point increases to 3.5; this increase is expected to be harmonised within three years. This would be a satisfactory height and compromise for both the lessor and the tenant of the apartment. The new housing law is supposed to seek the most urgent goals, decentralisation, even construction across all regions in Slovenia. In the past it was mostly concentrated on Ljubljana, on major cities – Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper, Celje. This should be changed and the construction, or through municipal housing funds or republics, should also be done in smaller places. Renovation of housing policy, an increase in the entire housing fund, find a systemic source of housing. Therefore, we urgently need a sustainable housing policy in Slovenia, a fair, non-profit rent, to increase the level of housing funds. The benefits of empty apartments would be greatly appreciated because there are many empty apartments and even residential houses up to 200 square metres in the country, some of which live alone. This amendment to the Housing Law establishes a public employment service, which will serve as an intermediary for the manager and maintenance of rental apartments. The owners will receive regular rents and will thus be burdened with risks. Rent notices shall be reduced from 90 days to 60 days in the law. The novelty also provides a basis for increased indebtedness of public funds, municipal and state funds, both types of funds will be able to borrow up to 50 percent of their assets. This additional money is estimated to be at least EUR 200 million, allowing investment in the construction of a circus of thousands of 700 apartments or more. Lowering the necessary agreement for level-holders for construction operations and improvements is essential, and the start-up of a public lease to be carried out by 2021 is guaranteed. In the sale of habitable municipal plots for multi-residential construction, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to have a preliminary right. So far, congregations have been defending nonprofit dwellings because there was no money to support them, so some have also sold them and are still selling them. Here I would add some additions to make improvements, as it now seems through some tourist agencies – they have otherwise been resolved abroad – through an airbnba show, for example, to get closer to long-term tenants here, not to give it to centres such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper, Celje, for tourist purposes. This has been decided by other countries that this is monthly limited or locational. I agree that the new building of housing funds would be better quality, low-energy buildings with a small thermal transition. In addition, the installation of the latest facilities in residential buildings, digitally completed, the installation of solar collectors on buildings, the separation of sanitary water and drinking water. However, as has already been suggested, the rent tax, which has now decreased by 27.5% in order to get closer to 20 or more. I wish, for example, that we would approach some implementation, such as in Austria. In Vienna, this is very well solved, and renting apartments are also highly acceptable for the lower layer. For the second reading, seek further improved solutions to this law. In this reading, of course, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar, prepare Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I must say, I am very happy that after so many years or decades, a real law has come to the table regarding housing policy. In view of this problem, there has been a lot of talk about housing shortages mainly for young people, for young families, for older, protected dwellings. It has always been said, there are no apartments, there are problems, we will solve them, there is a need to solve them, but there have been no special developments in this area so far. It is therefore very encouraging that the Government has finally addressed these pressing issues, and it seems to me that this proposal for housing law is finally just one such shift in the right direction, I would say as some tectonic shift that we can somehow compare even with some other shifts or projects that this government, Janez Janša, is currently working on. We can compare this even with the establishment of a demographic fund, with an ambitious plan to restore and strengthen resilience, with pension movements, farmers, people with disabilities, and so on and also with major developments in the construction of state and local infrastructure. If I touch the past a little bit. We know how these apartments were built in the previous country. Whether it was transparency or not, how much money was spent on it, no one will likely ever know. The fact is, these rental apartments were built largely, that's true. However, the fact is that these apartments were then sold very cheap in the process of self-sustainment. Some say that it was wrong that this privatisation took place under the Law of Jasbinsk, but in the same breath you probably think or support that somehow the families who lived in these apartments, who had housing rights, came in a very convenient way, very cheap to these apartments, which were, of course, sold at a very, very low price. There have also been certain injustices here. Not all have received such benefits that after today several thousand euros could buy a two-bedroom, three-bedroom apartment. By comparison, even in 2010, when these denationalisation problems around these apartments were resolved, a three-bedroom apartment was sold in Ljubljana, for example, for a thousand 500 euros in central Ljubljana. These are facts, and we just have to be aware of that. Since these apartments were sold at such a price, then they were gone and since then they have been dragged into Slovenia by this problem of housing shortage. A lot of apartments are empty. You can also look at statistics from region to region, how many of these apartments are empty across regions, which no one broadcasts, are not even for sale, and there are many such apartments empty, in particular state-owned ones, that is to say. Above all, those who were bought at a very low, affordable price and then, of course, either families went out or were gone, or whatever, and these apartments were all alone. However, for the supply currently on the market, given that we have a market economy and that we know exactly who is drinking and who is paying, these rents are also extremely high, and I must say, in my opinion they are also extremely high and are not particularly accessible to young people. With this new law, we will make it possible to rent so conveniently, more advantageously, because with the rental fund, I believe that people, owners of apartments will decide and rent these apartments. Some people just don't want to deal with it. I think this help with the lease fund is very welcome. Of course, when there are more apartments on the market ready to rent, prices will, of course, automatically drop. I also very much welcome the fact that when building permits are obtained, that is to say, to gain agreement that this percentage is falling from one hundred percent to 75 percent and 50 percent. That's very welcome. That's what everyone missed. People have turned to me on many occasions, and this is really such a real, appropriate incentive solution to make it easier to maintain things along these multi-housing blocks and so on. This electronic vote, which will be enabled, will also be very welcome. It is also very important that the non-profit rent is raised, which was a major barrier to the construction of non-profit apartments. We know that until the non-profit rent was so low, you couldn't even maintain an apartment. I am also pleased that the subsidy will increase for the most vulnerable so that they can live in these apartments and be able to pay the rent. If I mention any more of the housing security that they are, I think it's very important. I think there should be a lot more in Slovenia, which is then decided by older people, either couples or individuals. We're in Lithium, I think, 17 of these apartments were built in a nursing home. I have to say that this was seized at the moment, and at the moment, these apartments were with new tenants or owners. I think we should continue with the construction of these protected apartments. This, of course, is part of the plan of the government, and I believe that these apartments will become more and more. It is also very important that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to obtain a preliminary right in the case of sale of municipal walled land intended for multi-residential construction. This also seems very important to me. Perhaps I would also touch on this tax rate or tax, which is actually quite high. I think there's something we should do about it. This has also been said by several Members. I believe that something will finally move in this area, which would be absolutely necessary. I'd like to touch the apartment. That's one of the problems, too. We know that these residential dwellings were or are now part of a residential block or shared premises. In these apartments there are still housewives who provide household services in these multi-housing facilities. They pay the top-level owners rent and the top-level owners pay them for the work they've done. At times, however, these tenants lived in these residential dwellings and did not have to pay the landowners, but in exchange for being able to stay in these dwellings, they did domestic services in these multi-housing buildings. Then, in a bad year, there was a change that would have been in the best interest of buying these housewives’ apartments under the housing law system, and then it was lifted very quickly. It should also be said that these tenants also invested considerable resources in these apartments to maintain them and to have them in such a state that they could live in them normally. Of course, if the landowner disagrees that these apartments are being redeemed, they cannot be redeemed. Moreover, it would be fair, of course, to have this proportional share invested in these apartments to be covered. This seems to me that one such open issue has remained from the previous years, and I think it would be a last and final time to address this area and that this will finally be resolved. With this change in the Housing Law, I believe that things will move for the better. Some of you have had different concerns or different comments, which are also all in place, but finally you just need to make one bigger move and this movement is precisely with this housing law. It must also be said that sometimes the policy in the previous system was used to build on a large number of apartments in cities and that people were moving from rural areas to these apartments. We know that this is why farms have become empty, and also today have problems for young people, which has already been mentioned, even in rural areas, where there are different obstacles: from land use, to building permits; in short, a number of bureaucratic obstacles to allow young people to be added to their homes in rural areas, to their homes in existing houses or to new ones. Here, too, I think there will be a lot of counterfeiting to do, although some things are already changing for the better. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been alerting this issue, the housing problem, for years, we have been aware of this problem, but we have not had the potential for such radical changes as we have today, because the Slovenian Democratic Party has not been on the government as much as some other parties. Today, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with coalition partners, we see the opportunity and the opportunity to finally address these issues, as regards housing issues – once again with emphasis on young families and older ones – we finally move and go in some right direction, in some direction developed by modern countries, in the image of European countries, and finally forget those missed moves that have been missed in the previous system. I believe that more housing will be built, including all this is prepared in the legislation to ensure that young people are taken care of, but also that some apartments will be available at any time, for example for a family or for an individual who needs to do so in one way or another, or for an accident or for a sudden departure from home or for anything that such a person or family can do very quickly, at a time when it needs to, get the necessary roof over his head. That seems very important to me. I think that the local communities, with this legislation, will also have a greater opportunity to have more of these non-profit apartments and build them so that this option will also be possible. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course personally, we will be very happy to support these changes, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law. I believe that until the second reading, we will try to change, upgrade, and probably, once these major tectonic changes occur in the residential area, we will also be able to upgrade later this building that we are currently preparing. I must say, I am very happy that this marriage is here and I will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič, prepare Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u18	President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, nice greetings to everyone! In the SMC, the proposal for this law is mainly understood through the perspective of some rapid resolution of some acute problems in housing policy. The area of housing policy is always a thank-you topic for discussions. Even in the past, I believe we have paid a lot of attention to this, and some concrete movements have never really been or have been for quite some time. And even those who were, even when we were talking about our country, weren't exactly focused on being very comprehensive, even when we were talking about that initial period in the 1990s. I am so glad that we are now taking a more concrete step forward. However, I would certainly like this process to continue and that the solutions that we have made as part of the efforts of the previous Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, have also somehow been harmonised, because I believe that there are still a number of solutions in that bill that can be implemented and will be very positive. I therefore believe that colleagues at the Ministry of Environment and Space will take all this into account in the next step, not only in this legislative process, but also in the future. However, the fact is that we cannot solve our housing policy or improve it only within the framework of the housing law, because it is a much broader area, which is also linked to, I don't know, the financial segment or the tax aspect, but also many other aspects. What seems important to me to point out is, above all, the current situation that has led to this acuteness. If we're even talking, if I stop a little bit at non-profit apartments, that is to say, publicly owned apartments, let's put it this way, whether it's a country or a local community. In the current situation, without any change, if we see purely in terms of maintaining the value of assets as such, it is not in the interest of the State or of the local communities to invest excessively in this area that it is not encouraged. Therefore, it is necessary to take the individual steps provided for in this law, so that, for example, if we take a congregation, the congregation sees the point of not wasting or being forced to dispose of the property in order to keep the property in the first place. Thus, now that we have improved this financial picture from the point of view of the amount of non-profit rents, I believe that there will also be a much greater incentive on the part of the municipal councils, municipal councilors or local authorities, to make these investments more ambitious. That's absolutely positive. I can add myself in this sense, because I have also worked in Isola, that despite the existing legislation it is possible always to find some improvements and some optimisation. Our experience in Isola was as follows. When a relatively rich real estate fund, covering both apartments and business premises, was managed somewhat blurry within the municipal administration, in a way that various services had to deal with one area, it was difficult to have any clear picture of what was actually going on with this fund; how much money you needed to put into it, how much money you got out, and, at the same time, what a financial picture, how much rent was collected, what the state of the real estate fund was. Thus, in such large systems, which are organizationally dispersed, many times with a real estate fund, and probably other things, are not best managed. And then we went into a solution that was slightly more market-oriented, but in terms of asset management, not in terms of getting as much money as possible from the pockets of those who are tenants. This proved to be extremely positive because a little more of this market, this entrepreneurial logic led to a much better management of the same existing fund, increased the satisfaction of the tenants, more money came from this title, and improved. In short, a new cycle has been set in motion in this area, although I initially said that, financially speaking, these business conditions for real estate funds are not the most optimal. I therefore count that with these additional levers, which we will introduce under this law, this will be so much better and an additional investment cycle will be launched, there will be more courage and ambition at the local level, and I believe that at the national level too. For it is necessary to know that the amount of the rent has virtually not changed since 2007. At that time, however, there was quite a specific inflation. I did the math once, and now I have the data in my head, and I think it was at least 25 percent, if not more. In this context, the manager of this asset is then also receiving 25 per cent less rent reimbursements, which means that its investment capacity is only to restore the existing fund for at least a quarter or a fifth less. Thus, with these steps we take, this will be absolutely positive. We also mentioned energy recovery earlier. This is a kind of paradox, because the owner of this property – let's say we take a municipality again – can invest in energy rehabilitation, new facades, improved roofs and so on, but then these funds will not be reimbursed through rent, because the method of calculating the rent was based on the age of the construction of the building itself, not on all those investments that were made later. The municipality, for example, had no interest in investing in energy rehabilitation, because it was not known at the rent itself and somehow it did not come back. Of course, the positive aspect is that the quality of being tenants is better, but we must look at all aspects. We must also guarantee this public financial aspect and, above all, ensure that the value of the assets is maintained, that it is private, and in particular, that we are defenders of property owned by the public. The so-called Jasbinski law, which was very good for one generation because it was possible to buy back this property – some studies I watched – by between 4 and 10 percent of the market value, was unfortunately not good for all generations who followed it. Here we have this hole that we've been trying to fill for a while. I believe that the solutions in this law are also aimed in this direction, so they are going in the right direction. What I think is important to me is also a solution that allows the funds themselves to be additionally indebted. Now this was limited, I think 10 percent or 20 percent of the Republic of Slovenia's Housing Fund, for those in municipal property to 10. This is now increasing to 40 percent, which also allows for an additional investment cycle. I believe that there are a number of municipalities with suitable plots, where this will then be possible to build, which will be a positive story for the mayor – or the mayor – who will be able to get it under the roof, as for many families, especially young people who need a solution to the housing problem. Because when we compare the relationship between non-profit rent and marketable rent, we see that there are very large differences. Someone who manages to obtain a non-profit apartment is in a much better position than someone who has been awarded a contract due to a slightly worse condition, because those who have not come through the tender can then count on only some market rent, which is unstable, when conditions are definitely worse, when these relationships can be broken down relatively quickly and, on the other hand, non-profit apartments are committed for an indefinite period of time, which is also an absolute very large advantage or someone has ensured that someone also makes it easier to decide for the family and for some other projects. This seems positive to me that this cycle is being encouraged here. If we are talking about promoting the cycle, I would like to highlight this financial or tax aspect. In the previous government, we raised the rent tax from 25 per cent to 27.5 per cent. This solution was, however, agreed in some political sense as some kind of compromise. I personally estimate that it is not good because it goes in the direction of encouraging larger ones to make it easier for those who want to avoid the tax to opt for black. So I think that if we want to take another additional step in this direction so that these apartments can be leased more, we should let this tax go, even though there is a possibility that this tax should be reduced by 15 per cent in terms of standard costs, but there is still a need for some additional financial stimulus. One possibility of additional financial stimulus is that we are thinking in the direction of some state guarantees. I have previously seen various proposals that have gone more towards relying either on European funds or on resources from our budget; this is the simpler option. I think we need to start thinking more and more in this direction, to activate private capital, whether it is the capital of households, individuals, citizens and citizens or businesses. One solution, i.e. a solution to state guarantees, which would then go to citizens and citizens, is certainly one way of thinking that would help to ensure that the State guarantees the loans that individuals would take, is an additional aid, or an additional platform that would allow easier access to housing. But we must certainly be careful about this, because experts point out that if this is going in this direction, it may be necessary to take one step ahead of this, so to speak, to ensure sufficient supply on the market. Since there is not enough supply on the market, this measure will primarily increase demand as a result of all this, so that the prices of real estate and housing will increase, which at least many do not want; some probably do, but I think that if we look at the public interest, it is certainly not good to do. So let us think about these guarantees, but let us also think about how we may encourage the congregations and the country by some scheme and activate those properties that the country also owns, so that some deliberate approach can determine where those other points are in our country, where some additional incentives could be made to provide housing, where all this economic cycle would then turn with the help of state guarantees. How much of these guarantees would depend, as it is said, on some economic reflection that we do not cause the price rise again, that it goes disproportionately up again. So here we have many untapped opportunities and opportunities, and I hope that in the future we will also have enough feelings for this area to be able to think not only how something is built from the budget, but how this whole structure can stand. So far it hasn't been done. We've missed something here. I am counting on us to find another solution to this law, an improvement, and, above all, I would like to see that in the steps that will be followed both in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space and in the Ministry of Finance, we will probably find a comprehensive solution to how we will continue to develop this housing area for 10, 20 and 30 years. I believe that if I look at the interests of investors, private investors and investors in this area, namely construction, housing construction, they will want to build in particular where the biggest profits will be. This means that it is in urban environments, this can be Ljubljana, these are Istrian municipalities, this can be Maribor, and all of it is very different. It should be noted, however, that to a large extent the price of the property and then also the rents influence first the price of the location as such, then the quality of the construction itself – now the construction is essentially more or less the same if we are not building above standard – either building in Prekmurje or in the center of Ljubljana or in Portorož, but then the market makes those differences. Thus it is our responsibility as a country, parliament, government, in the final stage also of the municipalities that we have this feeling and build where it is necessary, and in particular that we not only push all these apartments into Ljubljana, Maribor, but elsewhere, but also to disperse this building, and that, at the same time as the country, this is also my part of the housing policy, we also provide services to people who will not be just and only in Ljubljana or in these major cities. I think it has to be a development and an apartment for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, get ready for Franz Rosec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, this debate has been taking place since Wednesday, and I must say not only since Wednesday, but I have been actively listening for ten years to the fact that we have no housing policy in Slovenia, that housing policy is also part of family policy, a very important part of family policy, so in New Slovenia we are constantly looking for solutions and we are also proposing solutions to improve this relationship, this situation in this area. However, the fact that non-profit housing is virtually not to buy an apartment according to current prices, if we look at Ljubljana, is virtually impossible, especially for young people who are at the beginning of a business career or who have some kind of holiday employment, as well as in other major areas in Slovenia, this problem is extremely pressing. By amending the Housing Law, of course, we are renewing housing policy. Suitable conditions are laid down for the construction and maintenance of apartments, but what seems very important to me is not the burden of socially disadvantaged tenants. The Housing Law mainly pursues the following key strategic objectives, which are also part of the coalition commitment, namely decentralisation, coherent regional development, renovation of housing policy, the increase of the housing fund, with emphasis on young and young families, the establishment of a systemic source of housing. What if we go first to what I said first and it seems very important to me to say that we are going to increase the housing fund. In Slovenia we are indeed facing a significant shortage of these rental apartments, and let me stress once again that not only in Ljubljana, but also in other major Slovenian places, especially for young people. For young people who are single, who are at the beginning of a business career with a first job, for the elderly, when they may not even be able to maintain their larger apartment, they might go to smaller or any other place in this area. And, of course, for socially disadvantaged groups. The case of some acquaintances from my place; they received a non-profit apartment in Koroška, there is a very large change in this immigration or resettlement. Practically half of Slovenia replace to get to an apartment. It seems to me that this is sometimes good, but of course if you live your whole life on one end of Slovenia, this is a problem in changing the environment. The amendment of the Housing Law therefore allows for the construction of an adequate number of affordable public rental apartments. This seems very important to me because the changes will help to strengthen the public housing fund. What I think is very important is the benefit of empty apartments in Slovenia. This is of great importance to me personally, as well as to the people I speak to and those who are looking for an apartment. The fact that there are many empty apartments in Slovenia is nothing new and many of you have discussed this before me. Of course, owners do not want to broadcast these apartments on the market for various reasons. It may be a mistrust, they may not know how to do the job themselves, they may fear that they may not be able to make it to their apartment in practice. Various factors influence this. The amendment of the Housing Law establishes a public rental service, which will serve as an intermediary, manager and tenant. Thus, owners will be burdened with these risks and will ensure that they receive some regular income in the long term. They won't have a problem with the tenant maybe paying them the first three rents, like, I'll say, the contract, and then they can stop paying. We have heard many times about what it is like to rent apartments in a way that is also risky in this respect, so that there can be an unfair relationship between the tenant and the owner and that these rents may not be paid. Thus, owners will be burdened with this and those who have a bad experience will be able to decide on the surrender. It seems important to me that a fair non-profit rent should also be mentioned, which will increase. This will mean that it will also be easier to invest, to rebuild, and of course this is necessary if you want to have as many regulated non-profit apartments. Well, if I come back to take advantage of empty apartments in Slovenia. Many of you have been told, even Europe has been affected by this terrible crown. I have information, perhaps an example of how things were resolved in Portugal. Practically Lisbon was emptied. People moved to the surrounding areas and the cities themselves gave the possibility of renting for tourist purposes. With this crown, of course, life has changed for all of us, and there are empty apartments there in Lisbon, which are somehow very similar to what we now predict, connected and broadcast to all those who were looking for non-profit apartments: young families, the elderly, to help with a cooperative, with the help of some form of cooperation, then these apartments were offered. So they solved a number of issues: they saved the owners of the apartment because of the crown of the crisis, but at the same time they were able to establish long-term ones, I think that for 3 or 4 years they had rented some long-term financial stability and, of course, also allowed young people and those who needed these apartments to come into the apartment. I don't think it's necessary in this area to detect hot water, that things in our neighbours are saying how things can be solved for the benefit of all those who have an apartment and those who are looking for them. The local communities have been mentioned several times today. Yes, I think that any local community or any congregation responsible also ensures that one part of the dwellings in its congregation also have nonprofits, which may or may be called, at least in our congregation, disability apartments, which are intended for the disabled. Human resources housing is becoming increasingly popular, perhaps also in terms of providing some rural staff. I am aware of the fact that some local communities also say that they get a primary doctor, they call it family medicine, or some dentist to offer him an apartment. This is how they try to provide some primary health care for their citizens. It has been said that we have one of the largest in Europe in Slovenia, and I do not agree with this, but we have a problem with the hotel Mom. In this area, I think the Italians, as well as the Portuguese, are still ahead of us, and in Slovenia, about 59% of young people between the ages of 25 and 29 are still with parents and 43% of Slovenes between the ages of 29 and 34. It is said that something needs to be done in the area of housing policy, to encourage young people to stand on their own feet, to start forming their own family community or social network, but there are reasons, perhaps even in economic terms. There may still be unemployment here, job seekers of course, but if these apartments were really enough and, of course, affordable, I think a lot of young people would like to become self-sustaining. [[…]] What I think is important for further reflection, but above all this flexibility is also in the field of non-profit housing. I know that some European Union countries know it. And this is, say, when you're young, when you're making a family, you need a bigger apartment, and when you're older, you need a smaller apartment. To make this transition between these stages in life, in the early stages of maturity and age, more flexible to make this flow and migration easier. I think that there is also a need for greater understanding and, of course, a way of understanding the different stages of life and the different needs. But what I think is very important, and I am happy about it, is that for young people today, in fact, quality of life is very important for all. By building apartments outside of cities, I think we will also give a new dimension and some added value to those who want such a way of life. Housing policy [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Rosec, behind him as the last Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have before us a novel of the Housing Law, with which we will actually take an important step forward in the area of housing policy. The bill contains some solutions that move young and young families to resolve their housing issue much easier. The very objective of providing multiple rental apartments, in particular those of the public, has been to include several governments in the coalition contract and there have been no concrete results. That's what our reality is. That is why we are now in a position to find that we are facing a significant shortage of rents; especially for young, older and socially disadvantaged groups. The amendment of the Housing Act therefore allows for the construction of an adequate number of affordable public rental apartments. The changes will also help to strengthen the public housing fund, as it will be possible to harmonise higher non-profit rent and to adapt the subsidisation system that will protect socially disadvantaged households by setting up a public rental service. It is true that we have many empty apartments that owners do not want to place on the market for various reasons. By setting up a public rental service, which was the intermediary, manager and maintenance of rental apartments, we will relieve the owners of these apartments, which are not handed over for such or other reasons, in order to relieve the owners of risks and thus ensure that they receive certain regular incomes. This will also make it much easier, or I am sure, that quite a lot of these people who have apartments and who do not want to give them up will decide and that they will respond appropriately to these reservations that they have. The amendments to the Housing Law also provide additional resources for the implementation of housing policy to the state and municipalities. Thus, this law or novelty brings both ratings and obligations on the one hand for tenants as well as for managers, as well as for housing funds, both republican and municipal. The note provides for a proportionate adjustment of the value of the point, which is converted to a value of 3,5 euros, which is a revalued value from 2007 and is added to a three-year transitional period to that value, as the current price is determined at the annual cost of living. It is also good that the maximum rent subsidy increases from the current 80 per cent to 85 per cent. This is said to be the case if the actual rent cost is increased due to other circumstances or to the rent, part of the subsidy is also increased. At the same time, the amendment of the law, or at the same time, is very good for the process of decentralisation to begin in our country. Indeed, we cannot build these apartments only in a city, or this is more than Ljubljana, because the services here are very interesting about the very height of personal income. In this way, certain institutions will also have to be transferred to rural areas or a little wider in Slovenia. It's not that big a deal. In fact, it shows from the current period when it was necessary for a particular communication system to be abandoned. It is said that there are no more physical meetings, but they have actually moved all these things over some online issues, as has also begun to work from home, which is a plus for both the employer and the workers themselves. I hope and believe that the situation on the number of dwellings, especially those non-profits, will improve in Slovenia with this amendment of the law. But I think she'll have to follow the whole renovation of the Housing Law in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkoršek also has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u24	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space with your co-worker, colleagues, Members and Members! Two days ago, we started with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law. Madam Secretary of State, of course, the Minister of the Environment with your colleagues, I am also firmly convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this novel is still necessary, and I am very pleased to note that you are on the right track to be in this time and with this quality of the new law in the National Assembly. This is, of course, from the majority of Members of Parliament and Members, who we spoke about this novel on Wednesday evening and this morning. I am glad that we know, of course, when we are talking about the Housing Law, that we are not looking for reasons, who in the past has not done anything but who has missed something and who is guilty of something, but the main part of the debate is how this novelty or housing policy would be even better in the future in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is a very important signal, as well as a moment that you rarely hear in this National Assembly, but I think that this could be more often present because we adopt laws, we invest them together with a professional, so that they will be as quality as possible, of course if they are of quality, they will also reach our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, I would like to point out a reform of housing policy, an increase in the housing fund, with a focus on young people and young families. I can't quite agree with those who speak, or sometimes it sounds like they stay at the hotel too long. I just can't agree with that. In the past, our parents, as well as we, have been building maybe residential buildings in a slightly different form of size than young people are building today. I can see nothing wrong, I can see even positive if the parents of young people have built a bigger house and that these young people are now staying at home. I only see this as positive because I know a lot of cases that can then share heating, electricity, water, and no problems. I think this is very positive, so I cannot agree with my mother too long in Slovenia. However, it seems important to me that when young people feel the need and when their family grows up to need a bigger apartment, it seems to me that it is very important for them to be able to do so. Of course, they don't wander around looking for a solution for a long time, because I think everyone will agree in this national assembly that, of course, young people have a lot of wishes like we did when we were young, but when we talk about housing, it's not a need. When young people start building a family when children come, it seems to me that it is worth living in such a beautiful land that young people have a decent home. In the past, I myself have been employed for several years by one of the housing companies in my congregation. Of course, I've met both tenants and apartments. Among these two, when we talk about this apartment novel, I have been asked several times because we are talking about an increase in the rental point if the rent now increases dramatically. I think it is right for all those who accompany us to make it clear that this will bring better housing to those who are renting apartments. I have already said in the introduction that I would not like to wonder if someone in the past has something to do with this point being aligned or raised in the past, then perhaps today we could talk about even more quality rental apartments in the Republic of Slovenia. It seems important to me when we are talking about this novel, to listen to the ministry, the professions and, on the other hand, I also see our wishes here. Of course, everything will probably not be possible to put into this novel, but I think that if we both listen and because we all have the same goal, we all know the need for rental apartments to get a quality novel. I think that's very positive. In the Republic of Slovenia we also have many private apartments. I think it's positive that someone who has the opportunity to buy an apartment, instead of having the money at the bank, buys it and, of course, is also happy to rent it, if he is convinced that this apartment will be safe and that, once, after five, ten years, he can get at least the one he leased. I don't think anyone who owns this apartment has any idea that they wouldn't live in this apartment, young people, or those who need it. However, it is often a problem, as we are saying, to extend inspection decisions or a little more emphasis, even when we are talking about this amendment of the law, to shorten the lease, which is certainly valid for both, for the owner and the tenant, but it seems to me that this may sound a little uncomfortable from afar, but I think it is necessary. When I talked about someone who gave someone a quality or a new apartment, and after months of finding out that something strange was happening with that apartment that he probably saved his entire working life, and that he was about to get everything else out of that apartment, it seems right that he could cancel a contract with such a tenant. I would like this novel in the National Assembly to be put through as quality as possible. I am pleased that the majority support for this novel is certainly waiting for us in the future, especially the ministry, which covers this very important segment in the Republic of Slovenia, to upgrade some other things on housing policy. In short, it is the desire of all of us to have young people, and those who are a little younger, the opportunity to live in quality apartments. I am pleased that this is the goal of all those who are here in the National Assembly, and in particular that those who are in charge of this housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia are making an effort. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are at the conclusion of a general debate in which a representative of the Government, Mr Robert Rosec, is given the floor. Here you go. A rose? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u26	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are aware of the need for a comprehensive reform of the Housing Law, but we have decided on the amendment because we can solve the most pressing problems with it as soon as possible. My colleague, who is the head of the housing sector, was interested and listened attentively to this constructive and correct debate. I am here, I think, on the four pages I have written a lot of thoughts and suggestions that we will largely take into account and apply in this comprehensive reform of housing legislation, which we will start to do after the adoption of the amendment of the Housing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u27	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he also wants to discuss the government representative, please report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. We have eight panellists, each with five minutes. The first is Mojca the Boxman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I can tell by the Housing Law he's welcome. Of course, it does not solve the whole problem in Slovenia – it will certainly be a lot of work to deal with the housing situation – but it is a step towards a solution. Above all, I am pleased that rental apartments are becoming more accessible especially for the young families they actually need. The problems in Slovenia regarding housing policy, as I see them, are, of course, not enough apartments and empty apartments, which owners prefer to rent for tourist purposes, in popular Airbnb rather than in classic rentals. Too many times today have been told why this is happening. Of course, owners fear for their property when they can no longer have it or when it is done poorly with it. It is therefore necessary to take care of the rights of owners, landlords and lessors, not only of the rights of tenants. We have different options, different customers, different individuals defending different models. So on the left hand side today, I've heard that the main thing is to build a country, but I think it's got to be something medium. Of course, some countries also have to build, but above all it is necessary to encourage the private sector to build rental apartments. The fact that the volume of subsidies is higher, that more money is in line with the subsidies already motivates the market to start building apartments. And as a rule, I think we should not just build in certain neighborhoods, but we should build apartments all over Slovenia, and this is not to centralise everything in one place, because it also irritates apartments. The subsidy should follow the individual and the individual can search for a job anywhere in Slovenia. If you grant a subsidy in Prekmurje to a doctor today, you will also get a doctor in Prekmurje, because it is not always about pay, it is about living conditions, it is about housing, it is about a clean and healthy environment, it is about good schools and good kindergartens. This is also why people choose to live in a place. Therefore, housing policy is not only a separate segment, but is also actually linked to the policy of building roads and training railways so that people can be mobile. I think it's also a very good move by this law to be the manager of these rental apartments. In fact, when we get old, we go to a nursing home, we'd like to leave our apartment for the craftsmen, but we can't do it if we have to sell it, so we can pay for home care. Instead, it will be very useful for a qualified tenant manager to be able to manage this apartment and collect the rent, thus allowing the apartment to remain owned and will also solve the problem of the existence of the elderly. I would like to draw attention to the new options, the leasing which should also be provided to young people, with whom they would also pay their rent over the years and thus become owners of the property, which would be sustainable and possible for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Get Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and other guests, colleagues and colleagues! We have a bill on amendments and additions to the Housing Law on the table. The most important contribution to these changes has been the lack of publicly available and affordable housing for all, but especially for young people. With innovations, and thus also with the price rise of the so-called rental point, additional funds will be provided to the housing funds and thus increase the possibility of renewal and construction; hence, old apartments are being renovated and new ones are being built. This is how we follow the objective of coming out of this problem that has arisen, or as explained by the Secretary of State, I quote, "with the proposed novelty we want to stop the trend of the collapse of the public rental fund and establish sustainable conditions for the operations of housing funds". End of story. This is how we are well aware of these housing problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must say, too, that the influence that this life leaves on a young man or a young woman until the age of 30 with her parents is too great for them to finally move on to a better step, if I say so. That is, when this young man or this young lady is in a high physical and even mental condition, she cannot take over, in fact she cannot live creatively as she would otherwise, and this certainly leaves an impact on the rest of her later life and career. I have already asked the previous Minister Zajc a question on this subject in 2019. At the time, I was asked some questions, which are also now coming to me, because I know that for some tenants who are already living in these so-called non-profit apartments, what they are paying is already expensive. To do something, however, this law will allow us to gradually raise the point of rent from 2.63 euros gradually to 3.5 euros. Since 2007, it hasn't been fixed, nothing has changed, all the other things have gone up, so somehow this second moment is no solution. Of course, there are still many things that can be done in addition to these public rental apartments in order to provide more opportunities for young people. I welcome that this relationship will change, how many owners there must be in order to get an agreement on a recast. Because, in fact, for an elder or for a younger man or a young family, an apartment on the fourth floor of Ptuj, where I live, does not matter. So people can't take the stairs anymore, the younger ones can't carry these children's carts, one or two of them, they can't carry them up the stairs, they can't carry the elevators, there's no way they can build the elevators, because those on the ground floor didn't agree, because they should have given the funds to do that. Now I hope that this will have a satisfactory effect on making recovery easier. Not to mention the disabled in fact, only two steps before the entrance can you be his sort of insurmountable problem — it is said, lifts. Then somehow, in order to solve the problem of those hidden apartments, I think that, given what we are doing now, we should also necessarily lower the tax rates on rent and tighten this real estate tax a little bit. If they had done this with one another, then it would have gone hand in hand; it is said to those who have the other, the third and the fourth dwelling, they will not have it empty if it were a property tax. Then there are welcome changes here, as we said, that we have changes and additions that are worthy of support to begin with better conditions. So I hope that they will have an impact on improving housing and cheering for young people, that I am keeping with you, and that is why I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Of course, we will not talk about what the government has done so far in the residential area, because no government has done anything in the 30s of Slovenia alone, except in 1990, when the Jasbinšek law sold out the entire fund of public rental apartments, which were already purchased in some way by the contributions of these citizens and citizens. We had solidarity, human resources housing, but, as a colleague mentioned earlier yesterday, this savage privatisation created some million profits, which we don't even know where they went and didn't invest in new apartments, but they blew up. Here, you see, it's again the original sin of not having public rentals. Some managed without any regulation at the time to provide 3, 4, 5 apartments and now live on rent and was completely out of control, without regulation. This is how housing is now a market commodity, instead of being a right, a human right. It happens that by the 1950s, 1960s we pay our own credits to get to the apartments, and then we pay our loans to their children who can't get credit because they don't have regular services because they're completely overworked. And what's going on? Children move out because they go where they can get a job, a regular job, and a rental apartment. Austria is close, we know a lot of cases where they get apartments, Vienna, for example, is one that has a tradition of renting apartments. In Germany we have housing cooperatives, in Switzerland they are basically all in rental apartments and move according to work, according to standard and so on. It would touch on the discussions of some coalition members who said that housing was a good decentralisation. I can't agree with that. We all come from the countryside, and we know that in the countryside, unfortunately, the houses are lonely. All people, mostly young, move to capitals where they get a job. The problem is in this so-called decentralisation that there are no adequate roads, connections, no railway connections and so on. Many prefer to live at home in the countryside and drive to the capitals where they have a job. Thus they are forced to move and pay half their miserable wages for rent. The fact that young people stay at home is not good, it is good in the countryside, I agree here, because there are young takeovers, but in cities where you have 30 and more years old children who can't take over and leave, get a family and start their lives, learn responsibility and pay the bills. This is definitely not to be said for. And in this case this scattered construction is really out of the question, because first of all, let's make sure that in the centre that prices are not so high in Ljubljana and the surrounding area. However, we welcome some of the measures provided for in this law and clearly, I think there is no one here who would not agree that it is necessary to engage in housing law. We have only a few slightly different views, so we will also table certain amendments to this law. The public rental of apartments by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia seems questionable because they will rent a private apartment for 1.3 times the non-profit rent and will rent it for a non-profit rent and the difference will again cover the state budget. It's great for those of you who have five apartments! They're not old wives who want to rent an apartment and they're afraid of bad tenants who'll break anything. These are the people who will live even better at the expense of the state. As I am running out of time, I will say that I would also like to draw attention to business and residential buildings, where business owners, for example, have offices and have absolutely no interest in energy recovery, not in common costs, not even less in any fund. This has to be resolved. Whatever residents want in commercial buildings, it is impossible, because interests are different; the interests of those who use the house exploit the interests of those who live in it. So much for now. I'm sorry. I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that the positive thing is that it is moving towards finally getting Slovenia back to a housing policy. We have already taken a few steps in the previous government, and now it is also going this way to take the new steps that bring – at least this is how I assess – positive changes. Since housing and housing policy cannot be left to the free market, it is not possible. This has proved not to be the case that this does not lead all countries, all the democracies that are advanced are also trying to provide rental apartments at an appropriate price. [[...]] Because without people, without young people, we don't have to go forward. We have also heard many times in this hall that our young people are leaving because of the higher wages, the third. I tell you that one of the great reasons is also a different social or social standard, which also means the availability of suitable rental apartments at an appropriate price. But what I'm trying to say is, he keeps distracting me. I am here among the elderly, and I also lived in the former Republic of Slovenia, where many apartments were built. Who built these apartments — our parents, fathers, and mothers — built them. They actually set up this fund. We can't say they did bad work, did good work, did good work, and created something. But we still have a pretty stepmotherly relationship with them. When it comes to talking — young people don’t know, but when it comes to talking — let’s look at the real data. Since the previous system, the former Republic of Slovenia has been left with us when the debt was split, in this budget, which is strong over 30 billion total debt already because we did not repay the debts, we have only reprogrammed them; it has a debt from the previous Republic of 1.7 billion. When someone said they didn't know where it came from. It wasn't that long, it wasn't that long. No way! There was something going on and it was building, so let's have a little respect for our ancestors. We don't talk like that. Seriously, it hurts if we talk through our parents and our old parents, what they are, where they lived. They were working! And the common housing policy was set up and a lot of apartments were set up because companies were collecting money, paying for the housing fund, and we also paid out of our pocket. [[…]] We used to have a system of self-contribution, and for solidarity housing we also collected all people through self-contribution, which we decided to do alone with the referendum. So, with a human voice. Not having such a black and white picture – I don't know who's painting it to you – but it was housing policy, it was guaranteed, it wasn't a problem. The scholarship and housing policy were also a concern for young people. Don't leave this stalemate to the market, but go back. That is why I do not think that we in the SAB will oppose and welcome the movement, although we do not think that all the moves are good, but will be able to change for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'm sorry. I have a loud voice. In fact, you have already mentioned very well today all the debaters where the core of this housing problem is in our country, which I am going to relate to, and I also expect that there will be greater hearing for these things. I would like to talk to you about housing cooperatives or also about housing associations. We still have these things in motion, or we are working to get things started, and we are also starting to make some progress, or even some results – since you will be able to answer that question from the Ministry. The point is that when we talked about this National Recovery and Resistance Plan yesterday, I expected more said or added to this topic in the plan itself. [[…]] Look, when we talk about the housing problem in general in the country, we need to have all aspects for the future or for our future included or somehow introduced. Thus, we need to think in the direction of sustainable living, environmental protection, including food partial self-sustainment, but, of course, energy saving systems or energy use. We can also talk in part about these smart places or even the future, as far as I am concerned, even talk about smart homes or even smart houses, which some even operate. You've given a lot of examples about an Austrian model that I know very well. It is said that there is a greater share of these cooperatives or cooperatives or non-profit dwellings in Vienna. But there's another thing I don't know if you've already read or not know, and even Linz has an even higher percentage of these non-profit apartments, 54 percent, while Vienna has about 50 percent. It's around here I would also like to mention that, as I explained earlier about these housing cooperatives or also associations, we already have the Cooperative Association, which is already doing what I have been explaining in this direction. It is said that the sustainable development of cooperatives or cooperatives, housing cooperatives, better stay, better stay. I hope that the country will also have greater hearing, as well as policy here in the National Assembly, so that it will receive or support such projects more carefully. Politically and financially, even financially. Since yes, I agree, the biggest problem in fact, even this eastern part of Slovenia from which I come, is that when workers or workers get jobs in Austria, they also offer them an apartment. And the apartments they offer are very quality or – I will just dare say – better quality than they can rent here in Slovenia. I know, now you're gonna say that the situation is what it is. That's right. But I think if we want to see things like this, we need to take them together. And when we talk about the housing problem, we need to take it over the perspective of the future of this generation that is coming after us or who is already. This generation is very ambitious or already has its own plans or ideas. And these plans and ideas are certainly these residential cooperatives, which are widely spoken of, but they are also largely not spoken of or spoken for — whatever the case. As once again, I hope that at the Ministry you will also show more attention to these housing cooperatives or associations and that you will also help these projects. I think it does not matter, given that this European Green Agreement, as well as these sustainable guidelines for a better stay or stay in our country, is in fact one of the most important projects for the future. So it's housing cooperatives or housing companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u38	Thank you, Chairman. I think that here, at this point, let's take one step forward, in all that has happened so far. We, in the SAB party, as I see it, will support that, too. But it is true that there is something to be said about this and also a proposal and an initiative for the ministry, because that is why we are here sometimes, isn't it? I absolutely agree with the rent raise or those points. That was, if I am not mistaken, I think it has been set up since 2007 even – or I do not know from when – and all costs and calculations, even depreciation for 60 years. I mean, these were fantasies once. We're living in a different time, and here we have to go to today's system. Construction itself, it's different at this time, can't stay the way it is. But we have to give people a chance, but we have to give people a chance in a number of ways. So, yes, rent, yes, non-profit rent, yes, social housing, but also the possibility of buying these apartments. That's what we're talking about in the SAB party. It is said that one state guarantee scheme for loans for the first purchase of apartments, the state guarantee in this case and as a guarantee only the apartment. I think that should be it. I almost miss here, there is one system of construction, one system of how to get to apartments in Slovenia. Housing was abandoned in the last decades of the market, we can say. The housing funds did what they did. Those who had a housing fund, those who were together, established this housing fund. Here it should be possible to determine the price of a square metre in advance, and give the opportunity to the undertakings themselves to perform certain works for the price, which is precisely specified, but not to negotiate then, to talk at a second stage. A few changes could be required here. I very much agree with the congregations. For that article 32, I think it would be right to take a little look at what it's all about. The same with regard to the subsidy itself, that the municipalities themselves will cover these subsidies for non-profit dwellings, the differences to the price, is a minor matter. Once again, we will burden the congregations in vain. In one way we give them a higher average, and on the other hand we beat them with a stick and give them other extra costs up. But as for what I was talking about earlier about pre-emptive justice, there's a little problem. You don't understand me personally. Otherwise, I will agree, but here we need to understand that we are going into a system of community action as one that is probably not right, in this sense. So I'm a little skeptical here, as far as that's concerned. For the little time I have left, another problem that arises to me, why there are no apartments on the market and why people prefer to broadcast for tourist purposes is also very clear. He's very clear. I see that there is one solution on the table, a short notice in the event that the tenant or the owner cancels the lease, a short notice of cancellation and discharge of the apartment, because there is a big problem. People are afraid to rent because they can no longer get them out in case of default, in case of damage, in case of non-compliance with contracts and what they are. I think that a lot more rentals would be a lot more opportunities to rent ownership apartments if this were arranged differently legally. Of course, it is the right of the one who is staying, but it is also the right of the owner, so we need to get a little compromise here between the two. But above all, if you've seen, if I've understood correctly, the notary record. The treaty in the Notary Record is not as strong as it was, if you say so, as important, as ready as it was. So there's a big problem about people who want to turn over and want to rent apartments. Here one thought at the Ministry is true, if there is a solution here, I think it will be in a positive sense and the capacity of rental apartments will also increase. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich, prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! We therefore agree that the inadequate amount of non-profit rent that has not been coordinated since 2007 is one of the main culprits for the irregular and abnormal housing market. As a result of such a point that has not been coordinated since 2007, housing funds have not been able to maintain apartments, let alone build new ones. Because housing funds were unable to perform their basic functions, so to speak, to care for housing in their area, this was left to the market. I am sure that if housing funds were able to build and maintain apartments, today it would not cost 500 euros for rent and more in the cities of the apartment, and that is in fact a policy error that has done so and advocated it. At the same time, I reiterate that it is very important for the State to establish a cadastre of dwellings and review the market. So that every moment he has an overview of what is happening to the market, which apartment is occupied, which is not, which is also broadcast through Airbnb and similar platforms, which I am not personally inclined to do, and in fact, I do not think it is good that housing in residential blocks is allowed to change into hotel types of accommodation. Let's say that the blocks for hotel types of accommodation were never planned and also never paid all the contributions paid for building the hotel. Well, for apartments there are lower contributions than for building hotel accommodations. She also said that she wanted the apartments to be decentralised — that is, construction. In this respect, I strongly support it and, in fact, propose that it be legally stipulated that all municipalities must provide some kind of housing fund. Some municipalities do not have housing funds, and this policy is simply not implemented and this was essentially a mistake in the Law on Local Self-Government, when the criteria were very low so that everyone who thought so could set up a congregation and not take on all the necessary obligations. This is also the reason that in some areas virtually non-profit or social housing is not available and is left to riot. Once again, I think it is very important that the country gets a review of the functioning of the housing market, to also set the target prices it wants to achieve on the market, to monitor these objectives and to adapt measures to this. It is not enough to say that we want to build two thousand apartments here; the goal must be: we want to make apartments accessible, so we want to build social housing on one side and we want to regulate the market so that prices are accessible. So 30 square metres of apartment and 500 euros of rent – it's not going together. Also 30-year-old credit for apartments is €3.4,000 per square meter – it does not go together. This must, in fact, also be one government measure and a measurable government measure, how it will somehow regulate and reduce these matters. As we today have an anomaly in the market as prices rise, it is not linked to the income of people who rent life-long loans, and it can happen as quickly as possible that people who buy apartments today will be able to hang a loop around their necks by EUR 3,000 per square metre. Here, in fact, there should be one state policy and control how a bank can give credit for EUR 3 000 per square metre. If the construction price of a square meter is around 800 to thousands of euros, then there is no clear reason why the market price of such a square meter is three thousand euros or more. There are some speculations that the state must address and prevent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would just like to add, because I think it is very important, this use of empty apartments in Slovenia. Indeed, when the owners are encouraged to give the opportunity or to be able to rent apartments or rent them to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and pay the owner a maximum of 1.3 times the non-profit rent. This means that for a comparable dwelling in practice, if you gave, for example, 65 square metres in Ljubljana through a public rental service, you would get about 450 euros while you put it on the market, this rent would be higher. So it seems to me that it is important not to interfere with the housing market, which is already in one way or another, but to encourage, indeed, this law to give up those apartments that would otherwise remain empty because owners or older people, as has been said many times today, are afraid or unwilling to deal with red tape and are afraid of problems of problematic tenants. This contract would be long-term, which also means some security, some stability for those who would rent the apartments. I am fully aware, however, that, in addition to all that we have prepared and which will allow the law to give other measures also in the field of tax policy, the reduction in the tax rate for renting is now quite high at 27.5 per cent. As a result, many apartments are turned over in black or are not turned over at all because this rate of taxation is too high. It seems important to me that this step is moving forward, and I really hope that people will approach more easily and more easily through this housing fund these apartments will be leased. Of course, I wish that we would not forget the young, young families, young people starting their careers, perhaps in larger or smaller cities, in order to make it easier to access these apartments, because we know that some way of scoring is still going. I think that it is also necessary to understand those who solve the first housing problem or the first housing issue, to listen to them, and to enable them to be able to put themselves through non-profit dwellings on their feet. I think that was also the goal that we pursued with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Monday, 8 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 18th item of the agenda, that is to the contrary the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a single higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the new city. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Mitja Slavinc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Messengers and Members! The proposal for a regulation amending the Decree establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town specifies that the third paragraph shall be amended to include the study programmes of the Faculty in accordance with the regulation governing the regulation and application of the classification system of education and training and the scientific discipline in accordance with the Frascati classification. It is therefore a matter of moving these references from the act of establishment into their statutes, which is in line with the new legislation. It is therefore a matter of amending or adapting legislation, so I propose that you support the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 15th meeting, on 11 February 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, submitted by the Government to the Council for its consideration and adoption. The legislative and legal services have examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and have made some comments to it. Her representative said that the amendments tabled by the Committee to the proposed decision took due account of the comments made in the written opinion. He also gave his opinion to the Council of State, which supports the proposed amendments. His representative drew attention, inter alia, to the lack of some profiles, to the different recognition of the rapid development of individual activities and thus professional profiles, to the unequal conditions for obtaining accreditation of certain study programmes and to the current restrictions on employment in public institutions. In the introduction, the motion for a resolution was presented by the proposer's representative, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The representative of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town explained that the new study programmes reflect basic study and programming activities, focusing on digital technology, in conjunction with various content in the field of computer science, mathematics with data science, society, business activities or security digitisation. He said that the teaching and research staff were provided for all already accredited study programmes and also for those still in the validation process. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee felt that four new areas were added by decree, only within two years of the last enlargement. In view of the fact that the employees are part-time employees, they also pointed to the issue of quality regarding their administration of the substance. Others felt that adding programmes was the result of the interest of students who wanted to upgrade their knowledge. They stressed the importance of bringing education closer to remote rural areas and the possibility of education closer to home. They also welcomed the high employability of diplomats and the availability of new programmes where the deficit of experts is recorded. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments on the basis of which the text of the amended draft decree is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State! The government has prepared three changes to the decrees, namely the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the University of Higher Education of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novo mesto. Since all three of these are related to a similar topic, the Social Democrats will be united in one position. The change will bring more flexibility in the development of study programmes to colleges and art institutes. According to the new statute and no longer the founding act of the University will be the one to determine in which study areas colleges will carry out their educational activities. According to the Constitution, it is the country which ensures the formation and further development of the university and higher schools. The state must thus create opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. The autonomy of the university means that the university itself decides on its own matters, that it is independent and independent in its decision-making. Social Democrats support the changes towards greater independence and independence of universities, so that they can determine in their own acts in the Statute the areas of study in which they will carry out their educational activities. Thus, the extension and modification of the study programmes will no longer require the consent of the Ministry, so the university will be able to react more quickly to the changes or expansion of the study programmes and implement them immediately after accreditation without waiting for a longer process of amending the decision establishing. This is therefore a change that will allow the faculty to respond more quickly, independently and systematically to the demands of the environment and to the needs of society. The rapidly changing society and the ever-changing technological development require a thorough view of the future, especially in the field of the education system, so that those who are now educated will also have in 20, 30 years all the competences necessary to enable the labour market to function as well as in everyday life as well. The representative of the University was also reminded on the Commission of the State Council of the need for a legal definition of the appropriate mechanism for the development financing of the university, and we therefore call on the Government to address this issue as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The views of the SMC Group will be presented by the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u50	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As has been the case several times since we had a proposal to amend the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, this time it has also been complicated at the meeting of the parent committee. Some debaters have been drawn to ideological escapades and imaginary situations that stem solely from the political orientation of the representative of this institution and from the information the government has set up. All right. None of us should have problems with the different views of other political definitions, but the decision we are considering today shows us another dimension that some of the debaters on our committee did not want to see or ignore. This is the provision of an accessible study for the widest possible range of young people from New City, its surroundings and rural areas in Dolenjska and the White landscape, which decide on the field of study and decide their future in particular. We oppose the effort and witnessed it even a year ago in the National Assembly, when doctors of dental medicine met in every way to prevent the opening of this programme in Maribor, which provides some universities with a monopoly and thereby hinders the development of higher education centres or university programs in other places in Slovenia. In this way, many young people are closed doors and denied the right to education and to the maximum benefit of their potential. This is why we supported this decree on the SMC parental committee. The Faculty of Information Studies in Novo mesto is the only independent university in Slovenia. Many students in the region are provided with logistical and financially more accessible studies in areas for which, particularly in the last year, when we were dependent on information and communication technologies in jobs and in the education system, it has proved to be professions for which there is a great deal of demand and will be more in the future. The proposed decree provided for the extension of the study areas with four new areas: business and administrative sciences, science, mathematics and statistics, information and communication technologies and transport, security, hospitality and tourism. Following a notice from the Legal and Legislative Service that the State must provide a uniform system of higher education, we adopted a supplement on the parental committee that would remove them from the decree after the new fields of study and leave them to the Faculty's statutes. The study programmes will be included in the fields of study in relation to the regulation governing the introduction and application of the classification system for education and training and in the scientific and research discipline according to the Frascati classification. We will support the motion for a decree in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, because the same solution will also be introduced with the amendments to the other two decrees, which we will consider at the next two points, namely the decision amending the decision on the recast of the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana, and we will also support these two decrees. And I will spare you with a position I will not repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the decision on the conversion of universities and independent higher education institutions appear to be a formality that comes on the agenda of the National Assembly. It is a matter of introducing new programmes or technical changes, such as the transfer of the head office of a university or institute, but in a specific case the proposed extension of the study areas at the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi mesto was proposed for validation. In Levica, we warned the committee that it is unusual for the university to expand its study areas for the second time in two years. And a 200 per cent increase in the scope of the areas in which it operates is impossible without exceptionally reducing the quality standards of education. In addition, I must point out that most of these colleagues on the FIŠ website are not regularly employed in college, but are working part-time at various higher education institutions. If we were to sum up their total educational burden, we'd find out that these people are great professors because they teach for five normal people. Levice's point of view is that such inflation in academic areas where most professors are not regularly employed cannot mean improving the quality of higher education; on the contrary, it means instigating business logic in the direction of expansion of the public education system, so we will oppose the change in the decision. Although the amendment did change the decree so that the expansion of the study areas in college would no longer be confirmed in the National Assembly. The change is due to warnings that we have several public universities and independent higher education institutions, the founder of which is the State, and that, in accordance with the principle of equality before the law, we should regulate or recognize the autonomy of these institutions for all in the same way. The preparation of an amendment relating to the Faculty of Information Studies decree does not address this problem. As today we are dealing with only two university decrees and one decision by a single higher education institution, this means that today the area wants to be regulated in an arbitrary and partial manner without the distinction between the institutions that are causing it being justified. And if the purpose of these changes is to leave the regulation of study areas to the full autonomy of universities and independent higher education institutions, then why has the Government not proposed changes to the decrees of all universities and independent higher education institutions in the country, not only those which we are dealing with today, these three which are subject to amendment. Science can only develop in its own and internal logic, regulate relations within itself and build on this fact the systematic autonomy of universities. This autonomy, however, is shattered by market and political pressures. Commercial logic is becoming increasingly subject to the rule of law and thus the university no longer serves the quality and diversity of the study and no longer serves social development. Content having either market logic or having a narrow interest in academic privilege shall be introduced. Public education remains nourished in the epidemic and is affected by unilateral decisions by the Government, which prefers admissions to institutions close to the ruling party and, on the other hand, by private and economic and religious centres of power. We will therefore not support the rulings at the next two points in Levica. We will not support them because the autonomy of the university is regulated in a partial and arbitrary manner without clear reasons, why there are differences between public higher education institutions and because they point to the lack of regulation in the field of higher education. And the strong debates we have on the Education Committee or the Health Committee, as far as the study programmes are concerned, for example at any university, one of the last such discussions has been the introduction of a study of dental medicine at the University of Maribor, cannot just be discredited, especially because the profession participated, in particular by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. It is necessary to read the contents of the debate in the transcript and then wave with your hand – this was contrary to the interests of education and universities. I therefore suggest that those who want to discuss this or to think about it read a stenogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Iva Dimic. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that, on behalf of New Slovenia, I will present my position on all three amendments to the decrees. A hundred years ago, on 3 December 1919, the Slovenian University, the highest educational and scientific institution, which is a strong pillar of national identity, began to operate with the first lecture in the Chamber of the Land Castle in Ljubljana. Today we have three public universities, two private and two international ones that guarantee the quality, excellence, diversity and broad accessibility of study programmes. Quality enables all to have internationally comparable and recognised university or higher education, thereby increasing employment opportunities and mobility in the European space and in the world. Higher education provides students with opportunities for personal development, career and active citizenship and a wider community of opportunities for personal, social, artistic, cultural and economic development. We therefore place higher education and related scientific research at the centre of the development ambitions of the Republic of Slovenia. Our goal is a quality and diverse higher education space that will respond to the needs and expectations of society and create a high number of diverse educated, motivated and innovative professionals with high ethical standards. According to the latest figures of the Statistical Office, 45.7% of young people are enrolled in higher education and higher education. The share of public expenditure on formal education is 5 per cent of GDP. And universities are the future, they are the place where knowledge and new ideas are born. There are places where we can freely exchange opinions and start creating innovations for the future. They're the hub of achievement and the idea of the whole world. The doors of universities must be open to all modern students, capable, regardless of their origin or material state of the family. We seek the diversity and excellence of the university space and encourage close cooperation with the economy. The transfer of technology ensures that new inventions find new uses. Any progress and innovation for us also means progress in prosperity. These are basic programmes or the basic programme of New Slovenia. Therefore, in the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk, we support the deletion of the study areas from the decree and their regulation to the Statute of the University. In the proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town Department, four new fields of study are added in the decree: business and administrative sciences, science, mathematics and statistics, information and communication technologies, transport, security, hospitality and tourism. The proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana changes the seat of the Academy of Theatres, Radio, Film and Television. All three decrees will enter into force on the 15th day following the publication of the Official Journal, so in New Slovenia we will support all three amendments to the decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town provides for the addition of study areas with four new areas: business and administrative sciences, science, mathematics and statistics, information and communication technologies and transport, security, hospitality and tourism. At the same time, the possibility of deciding on the areas of study remains in the founding act and is thus left to the faculty. The last decree before us differs from the other two proposed decrees in which the regulation of the study areas is transmitted at the University of Maribor and Ljubljana. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out that the proposed regulation was questionable in terms of equality before the law, the autonomy of the university and universities and the principle of legality. In the SAB Group, we believe that the extension of study programmes is also a reflection of the interest of students who want to upgrade their knowledge, which we welcome, but I do have to point out here the Higher Education Act, which sets out standards for public schools, including the quality of the supply of materials, and therefore, in the light of the fact that employees in the university are part-time employees, I ask whether students will be provided with the same level of supply as at the university, which is part of the network of public higher education institutions. Education is undoubtedly a public good and a good public interest and, as such, is one of the most important factors in social development, so we must protect and preserve this public good. Maintaining quality and for all available public education is thus one of the main programming points of our client, the SAB party, from which we will never give up. We advocate a strong, high-quality and modern public education that follows the modern pedagogical reception and the rapid development of society. However, we are opposed to all measures aimed at weakening public education in the long term or putting it in a worse position and leading to two types of schooling; those for the rich and those for the poor, regardless of what level of education we are talking about, primary school or in today's case, higher education. In doing so, let me stress that we do not want to cause a conflict between private and public schools; even more, we have never opposed private institutions. We believe that they are welcome because they are enriching our educational space, but we are convinced that they should not be financed from public funds. Noting that public education is our key pillar, which ensures an equal jumpboard for all under all educational conditions, we will not support that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u58	Vice President, thank you for your word. Hello to the Secretary of State! In view of the fact that these and the following two items of the agenda are for similar changes to the decrees concerning the Independent Higher Education Institute in Novo mesto and the two universities in Maribor and Ljubljana, in the Desus Group we submit a joint position on all three proposals or acts. The proposals before us are a change to the title of the headquarters of the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television, which belongs to the University of Ljubljana. A key change for all three and the competent committee of complementary acts provides that colleges, higher education institutions, academies may carry out educational activities in the fields of study, which are already determined by the university's statute and no longer by the establishment decree, and that the study programmes are included in the fields of study in relation to the regulation governing the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training and in the scientific and research discipline in accordance with the classification, so that they are no longer listed by name in the decree itself. We do not object to these changes in the Desus Group, since, at the final stage of the university, they are, not least after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, autonomous and, at the same time, the relevance and relevance of the study programmes are assessed by the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, so we are predicting support for all three acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik will be the last to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the LMŠ Group in this position, I will summarize our views on all three proposals for amendments to the decrees, referring to the change in the New Town, at my university – University of Maribor – and, of course, the University of Ljubljana. Before and after the covid-19 crisis, we are so aware of the importance of our public education system. A major contribution to the education of future generations of highly skilled labour by targeting, of course, the transition to a green and digital Europe will be made by public universities, as these are accessible to all. Just because of the new orientations, of course, the key role of universities is to educate experts whose role in the labour market will make an important contribution to the added value of the Republic of Slovenia. The decrees we are considering today at the meeting of the National Assembly will contribute to greater autonomy and autonomy, both at the University of Ljubljana and at the University of Maribor. In introducing changes in the field of education, we have always advocated professionalism in the LMŠ Group. We also took a professional decision when the Government decided that it would not, of course at the right time, consider the decision on consent to the content of the invitation to enroll in the study year 2021/2022. I remember! At that time, the Government decided to postpone that call, politically putting off that call, and later, after all the pressure, of course, it changed its decision. So much more so that changes in the decrees will contribute to the professional decision of universities, to a faster independent response to environmental and social demands, which is the essence of today's legislative changes. The University of Ljubljana, as well as the University of Maribor, will be able to respond more quickly to the desired changes and to the professionally justified and self-sufficient decision, and in this way also to extend their study programmes when this is necessary, of course, and when this will allow capacities that are not insignificant. Thus, the decision of universities will no longer have to wait for a longer decision-making process to be changed, as the changes will take effect immediately after accreditation and, of course, take place without delay. And that's also the point we're talking about today. Nevertheless, the shortcomings of the decision relating to the amendments to the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town need to be highlighted. At this point it should be noted that it is different to regulate the classification in the fields of study, as regulated at the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, and thus to determine the fields of study remains in the founding act. They are complemented, as colleagues have already said, by four new study areas. In doing so, it should be pointed out that there has already been another expansion of the areas in question in the last two years, which is a bit unusual or not. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that the proposed regulation is questionable from the point of view of equality before the law, autonomy of the university, universities and the principles of legality, which is why in the LMŠ Group we will abstain in the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, while we will consider amending the decrees of the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled and the vote on the motion for a decree will therefore be held on Monday, 8 March, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, in the framework of the 14-hour vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a motion for a decision to amend the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a ruling. Dr. Matija Slavinec, Secretary of State – Mitja, I apologize. Dr. Mitja Slavinec, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Messengers and Members! The following decree is also bound by a similar regulation and it is a decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor, where the explicit orientation of the study areas is deleted, which is transferred to the statute of the university itself in accordance with the regulation. At this point, there may still be a response to a previous thought as to why not all universities are in the same package. True, here today we have the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana. For the University of Primorska, the procedure is already in the National Assembly, and the Council of State has already given its opinion, so that I can announce it for one of the following meetings. I suggest you back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a working mother, and I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u64	Thank you very much. At its 15th meeting, on 11 February 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has made some comments to it. Her representative said that the amendments tabled by the Committee to the proposed decision took due account of the comments made in the written opinion. He also gave his opinion to the Council of State, which supports the proposed amendments. Her representative said, inter alia, that they supported the efforts of public universities or higher education institutions to identify an appropriate and effective funding mechanism that would enable higher education institutions to develop study programmes. In the introduction, the motion for a resolution was presented by the proposer's representative, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In the debate, the members and members of the committee explained that, with amendments to the decree, the university would be able to amend its statutes on the Administrative Committee and would therefore not have to amend the constitutional act to be approved by the National Assembly, so that the procedure would proceed faster. They also welcomed the successful work of the university, in particular the latest achievements in the field of nanosatelites produced for the European Union. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments on the basis of which the text of the amended draft decree is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u65	Thank you very much. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. However, the vote on the motion for a decree will be held on Monday in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the context of the 14-hour vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a decision amending the decision to reshape the university in love. The motion for a decree was tabled by the Government for consideration by the Council, and I am taking the floor again to the representative of the Government. Dr. Matia Slavinec. Mitya! I'm sorry again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You'll get used to it. Members and Members of Parliament. This decree is also practically identical to that of the previous one, with the difference that there is still a change in the headquarters of the Academy of Theatres, Radio, Film and Television. Again, it is a matter of compliance with the legislation in force, not to mention the field of study, but to transfer their reference to the university's statutes, which, of course, also reduces bureaucratic procedures. I therefore propose that you support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Dr. Slavinec. And once again, I apologize for the double mistake. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science and Sport and Youth as a parent working body, and Mrs Iva Dimic again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! At its 15th session, on 11 February 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, submitted by the Government to the Council for its consideration and adoption. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. Her representative said that the amendments tabled by the Committee to the proposed decision took due account of the comments made in the written opinion. He also gave his opinion to the Council of State, which supports the proposed amendments. Her representative said, inter alia, that the Commission supported the efforts of the University of Ljubljana to legally define the appropriate mechanism for the development financing of the university and to evaluate its educational and scientific research work properly in the public. In the introduction, the draft resolution was presented by a representative of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. One of the panellists explained that the University of Ljubljana has been in existence for 102 years and is the oldest university in Slovenia. He believed that this was the basis of our people's existence and deserved greater financial support within the framework of science. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments on the basis of which the text of the amended draft decree is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled and the vote on the motion for a decree will therefore be held on Monday, 8 March, as part of the vote at 2 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight MEPs and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordis. At its 25th session, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Andrei Reich. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u70	Dear Vice President! Fellow Members and Members! The bill contains two solutions. The first relates to the abolition of road transport. The proposal thus provides that drivers should have a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment while driving, as well as evidence of payment remittances and paid contributions for the last three months. In the SAB, we do not favour the first solution, although we agree with the applicants that this area needs to be regulated. In practice, there is a violation of the legislation and thus of the rights of drivers. Some are forced to work in extremely poor conditions, which in some cases are already limited to human rights violations. However, the new, stricter legislation will not produce the desired effects. The current legislation already contains safeguards that prevent infringements of workers' rights and should therefore strengthen control and penalise offenders accordingly. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that today we have electronic databases, so this control should already be automatic. So, in real time, check the payout data into the driver's social cash and digital tachograph cards. The second solution concerns the mandatory installation of a tachograph in all vehicles used for road transport. This would also apply to two-track vehicles, with a vehicle height above the first axle above 1.3 metres or more, and vehicles with a maximum permissible mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes and designed to carry more than six passengers. As a solution, as the mandatory installation of the tachograph represents, we welcome the SAB Group. Last year, a legislative proposal was put forward to remove the tachograph obligation for vehicles which are primarily intended for the transport of children. In the SAB, we were not inclined to do this because we estimate that the cost of placing a tachograph in vehicles does not weigh road safety. In the SAB party, road safety is strongly placed first, especially when it comes to child safety. The tachograph function is not only a recording of the driver’s activity, but also enables monitoring of driving methods such as recording speeds. Tachographs can verify the number of working hours and mandatory rest periods, so their termination would reduce the safety of all road users. For drivers drive too many times without rest, tired and tired. The tachographs would have prevented this from happening more effectively. Stricter rules in this area and mandatory use of tachograph have been introduced into our legal order precisely because of a tragic traffic accident in 1998. In the SAB, we believe that we must maintain the highest level of standards that we have already achieved in legislation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Once again, I welcome everyone! According to the arguments of the novelists for the legalisation of tachographs for so-called two-track vehicles with a vehicle height above the first axle of 1.3 metres or more and for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass not exceeding 3000 500 kilograms and which are designed and constructed for the transport of more than six passengers, in addition to the driver, and for the regulation of the status-law form of employment of drivers, there seems to be no reason for any reasoning. We all know that unfair competition in transports or carriers is expressed mainly in the rest, working hours and efficient driving of combined transport drivers which are not in conformity with the law. As the most pressing problem is that most drivers in Slovenia have a minimum wage in their contracts of work and are actually paid per kilometre or per cent of the cost of transport. The driver thus earns as much as the miles per month, multiplied by the agreed cent. They are also convinced of this in both the Automobile Associations and the Trade Union of Professional Drivers. The draft law also provides that the individual driver may be transported only if the driver of the vehicle has a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment with the carrier, and this decision does not apply where the driver of the vehicle is at the same time a licence holder and has the status of a self-employed person. The proposed solutions in the novel are not new, since a similar proposal in the legislative process has already been addressed in 2017 and has not been adopted by the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we believe that this area absolutely needs to be regulated, both dumping transport prices and social dumping, which we consider to be significantly more attractive, while at the same time we need to draw attention to some facts which the proposal does not address and do not solve the problem. The prescribed mandatory installation of a tachograph in vehicles, as proposed by the proposed law, would apply only to drivers registered in Slovenia. Here in the Desus Group we see a problem, as this puts Slovenian drivers in a materially unequal economic situation and would make them more competitive, as the mandatory installation of tachographs would apply to a domestic carrier who would therefore have additional costs and additional administrations such as keeping time records, storing data from tachographs, and the carrier would be obliged to use tachographs in Slovenia, not abroad. In addition to this, it does not seem fair to us in the Desus Group that, at a time when we hope to be on the path of a return to the economy, we are adopting legislation that creates additional burdens on the economy. According to the European Union, the legislation could not impose this obligation on foreign carriers, so in Slovenia you could drive without a tachograph. From this point of view in the Desus Group, we believe that the issue in question must be regulated at European Union level if we are to achieve the desired effect. In addition, I would like to point out that 2020 has been adopted a mobility package which, inter alia, regulates the installation of a tachograph in a freight vehicle capable of transporting goods, which will have to be equipped with tachographs in international traffic by mid-2026. It is true that such a measure for the field of passengers has not yet been proposed, but there is a possibility of a uniform regulation at European Union level. In our view, the mandatory installation of tachographs, as provided for in the law in question, would be inconsistent with the regulation on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport and with regard to the comparative legal arrangements of other Member States of the European Union. In the Desus Group, the proposed obligation to hire drivers for a certain or indefinite period of time is not favourable, since such a provision would prevent the implementation of other existing and legal forms of transport employment, which are often used in small family transport companies in particular for the employment of family members and in particular pensioners who may earn some euro with occasional work. The applicant’s claim that there is no control over these forms of work does not hold, as Furs can control short-term forms of work in any case. It is also necessary to register and keep records for such a form of employment. Despite the good intentions of the proposaler in the Desus Group, we believe that individual partial solutions will not produce the desired results, so we are inclined to resolve this issue at European Union level.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. A few months ago, the epidemiological situation for carriers was devastating, but the state helps them and the situation is slowly stabilizing. Left as a proponent, he likes to use expressions such as leniency, minimum wages, social problems, labour rights. They do not realize that all difficulties are caused by employers who do not respect laws, as in Austria. The remedy is dealt with in other areas, with a roof law and not with some non-artificial partial solutions. With us in Slovenia, we are unique in the field of rule-making, and Slovenian folklore is that we have the wrongness of laws. It is not just drivers who work under poor and uncertain working conditions who experience hardship, pressure from employers. This is also felt in the public and private sectors, when people work overtime, sleep too little, and the next day they are not collected and self-contained. A wild and unregulated market must be brought to order on the basis of an appropriate law. The fact that it is not possible to control their work is a matter of bad organization, of bad work inspections that do nothing in this loving country. But if they've done something about it, let them give us a report. We are talking about the minority, not the majority, so we need to find a common compromise at the level of the Chamber. It introduces mandatory installation of topographers in all vehicles used in road transport for the commercial transport of persons and goods, which entails additional financial costs and administrative burdens for domestic carriers. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the topographer does not eliminate all safety risks, as the driver can also be distracted for other reasons. We are all aware that road traffic rules and regulations must be respected for greater road safety. It also seems to us that the driver must have a contract of employment with him for a certain and indefinite period of time. Where did we come from? I'm asking you. In the material, we expected some analysis and data, how much the contract had or how many it was doing in black, and this is not recorded anywhere. There are also many exceptions listed where the European Community Regulation does not apply, but matters are limited by miles. On the other hand, the driver may derogate from certain restrictions to the extent necessary to ensure the safety of persons, vehicles or cargo, provided that it does not endanger road safety and leads to a place where it can stop. It is also worth asking how many times in the past there have been cases of abuse of topographers and whose thanks it has been. Article 33 also shows how many documents the driver must have while driving in the vehicle; it is not. It's also good that we only have a personal car driver's license, a driver's license and a driver's license, and some instructions in the drawer if our car breaks down so we can call somewhere. With its proposals, the Left would increase matters with a wider set of documents, everything for their well-being, greater likeness and populism, which we are already accustomed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u76	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellows and fellows! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. We do not support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already said on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The proposed mandatory employment of drivers for a fixed period or indefinite period prevents the implementation of other existing and legal forms of employment in the field of transport, such as the employment of family members or pensioners, which often merge mainly in smaller transport companies. In our view, the contract of employment and the proof of payment for the work to be done by drivers in the vehicle during driving do not yet demonstrate greater social security for drivers and greater road safety. We therefore do not agree with the proposaler's assessment, but this is an additional administrative burden for employees and employers. We also believe that the supervisory authorities can access official records at any time and verify on the ground the forms of employment of drivers. With regard to the proposed mandatory installation of topographers in smaller vehicles, we join the Parliamentary Group in the position of the Government and the interest chambers in order to harm only domestic carriers and place them in an unequal position with foreign competitors. There are probably cases of individual cases of bad practices between motorists requiring longer driving intervals from drivers than legislation allows. It should be noted, however, that the vast majority of car carriers respect both labour legislation and the law governing the rest of mobile workers. The unilateral introduction of such a regulation would only impose more difficult conditions for Slovenian carriers than for foreign carriers and consequently reduce their competitiveness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! Precaution is one of the forms of work that has grown in the labour market in recent years and has a strong impact on the lives and lifestyle of individuals. One of the reasons why we should consider this amendment is the second time that the proposaler is concerned that this type of work is being used also between employers of motorists and other road transport operators. Proposals by amending the Road Transport Act refer to unfair business practices in the field of occasional road transport, which are based on fine-tuning forms of work. It is common for employers, including between road hauliers and occasional road transport operators, to conclude on-call forms of work. Among other things, because the employer allows greater freedom in the design of the work process. On the other hand, such a form of working relationship increases the risk of abuse of labour law and can also lead to unfair business practices. From the point of view of the criminal worker, this form of work creates social and economic uncertainty, as it does not oblige employers to pay contributions for health, social and pension protection, the exercise of the right to paid annual leave and the regress for annual leave, the payment of compensation for the time of the hospital stock and so on. And this is a problem that should be addressed as a society as a country. While the proposed amendment sought to address infringements of labour law, which are mainly manifested in the long-term implementation of long-range transport beyond all road safety regulations and labour law rules, we believe that the existing legislation allows for appropriate monitoring and sanctioning of such infringements. Of course, this legislation must also be implemented in practice. From this place in the List of Marjana Sarca we appeal to the Government and the competent state institutions to further strengthen their control over such acts. In the LMŠ Group, we were unable to overlook or warn the Legislative and Legal Service, which warns that this content is governed by the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and Registration Equipment in Road Transport and not by the Act. She also pointed out that the proposed solution, which was intended to define regular working relations as a legal obligation, could interfere with free economic initiative or entrepreneurship freedom. We have not supported the proposed amendment because of all these concerns on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u80	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! But I can't say hello to the government representatives because it's not easy between us today, but we should be, because what I want to say is what I want to say to them. This, with respect and respect, that we stand here today and talk, is the fault of the government's representatives. Those of us who were on the committee where we discussed the Road Transport Act remember what was going on there. Workers' representatives, the unions were desperate. Interestingly, representatives of people representing motorists were also desperate. Why? In fact, we were told that the current legislation was not being controlled. It's like you have to come to the office and get your hands on them and bring them where the violation is supposed to be. Therefore, current legislation is not implemented in practice, there is no supervision and therefore workers and workers, drivers and drivers are living in a more difficult position than legislation allows them to be safe. That's why those self-transportors who I hope are in the majority, but I don't know, but those who work in accordance with the law, in an impossible difficult situation, are deprived and want the state to control what it has prescribed, but it doesn't. Can we save the country’s inaction in such a way that we can adopt even stronger laws, stricter laws? In fact, it's the wrong approach. If someone doesn't do something, we'll have a new marriage. Yes, if we find that existing laws are not enough, but if they are not implemented, then criticism must be directed towards those we know are responsible for implementation. That is why it so loudly reflects the absence of the Government at today's meeting of the National Assembly, and therefore they must be aware that what we Members and Members of the Committee have said will hold. In two, three months, we will call them to the committee, the meeting will be called urgent, and we will ask very simply whether what we have recommended is that you carry out urgent action controls, put teams of inspectors on the pile, or have you realized, or will you explain again only what all European legislation does not allow? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We are already used to the fact that the Parliamentary Group of the Left puts in the legislative process, as in the current lane, proposals for laws which provide identical solutions, although these have already been rejected several times. There is no exception to the amendment to the Road Transport Act that we are considering today. Such a proposal has already been put into the legislative process by Levica in the past, and as Levica insists on the proposed solutions, we have not changed our position in the SMC on the proposed amendments. We're not a proposal for a marriage and we don't support it. The Left proposes this amendment to the law with a view to combating the diversion of motor vehicles, and the objective of greater road safety is being pursued. It's a good purpose, but we don't think it's the right way. In the SMC, we are confident that the mandatory installation of tachographs in the van will not solve the problems that the applicant is putting forward in the bill. If the objective is greater road safety, this is certainly not a suitable solution. Let me explain why. Remember, in mid-February, Maribor police removed a truck with major technical deficiencies. The brakes did not work flawlessly and the vehicle had three inadequate tyres. Although we all know that tachographs are mandatory in freight vehicles, technically inadequate vehicles pose a serious danger in traffic. The tachograph would do nothing to stop this truck on the road in time. However, the second thing that we think is important is that the mandatory installation of tachographs in the vans would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of Slovenian motorists, especially compared to other EU companies that are also engaged in this activity. This additional requirement would apply to Slovenian carriers, but not to other carriers. That's what the government warned us about. It is also not negligible that every time, under the leadership of various ministers, the Government, irrespective of the colour of the government, has given a negative opinion to the bill and has always made the same arguments. When we talk about tachographs and their installation, we must be aware that buying a tachograph is not the only cost, we must also take into account that a certain cost is also its installation, calibration and maintenance. The crown crisis in which we are currently is deeply embedded in the global and, of course, also in the Slovenian economy, so there is no reason for further restrictions on its recovery in any way. Automobiles in the Slovenian economy are an important part of this and we must not ignore this. We do not support the bill in the SMC. Although we can agree with the objectives of the proposalr, we believe that monitoring should first be strengthened. Therefore, there is also an appeal to the competent inspection services to ensure that the monitoring of the respect for working time and rest of drivers is enhanced and that the legislation in force is respected. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Exploitation of work during illness, payment after mileage, driving, which also lasts for more than 24 hours without rest, poor control and running to the bottom in the pit of wages between employers, these are just some of the things that professional drivers in the road transport industry have to endure. And this situation is becoming unsustainable. We are witnessing such social dumping, such exaggeration of work and such a deterioration of working conditions that all of this does not concern just professional drivers, who are the first victims of shameless exploitation practices here. This is the case for all road users due to their overwork and consequently poorer traffic safety. In order to improve things a little bit, we have tabled in Levica a new law on road traffic rules. The goals of the marriage are clear. First, regular jobs for all drivers. This would be demonstrated by the fact that the driver must have a contract of employment with him for a fixed period or for an indefinite period of time. Holidays for drivers in the road transport industry are becoming more and more common. Many drivers, especially van drivers, drive on fictitious minimum wages and are actually paid after a mile. They often don't even see the payroll. Second, the installation of tachographs in all combined vehicles. Here we have focused on enabling van drivers on out-of-way transport to have an appropriate rest period. Inspection services could also exercise adequate control over the rest and working time of these drivers. Now, due to the absence of proper supervision, they are forced to drive for more than 24 hours. Regular employment would improve the social security of drivers. Those who are now doing this work under conditions of leisure would thus be given the opportunity of paid hospital, vacation, regression and everything else, which should belong to all workers, but unfortunately not to them. No more would we scratch for cheaply paid miles than in the race for survival this is now forced. We would no longer drive sleepless, tired, and often sick. The installation of a tachograph in the van would provide these drivers with less rest and space for their exploitation, and all of this would lead to greater road safety for all road users. We proposed regular employment of professional drivers and mandatory installation of tachographs in the vans in Levica in 2017. The then government and the coalition of SD, Desus and SMC parties opposed the bill's proposal by arguing that it would be more appropriate to regulate these matters at European Union level. At the same time, nothing has happened at European Union level. Then we had a new government in which the Minister of Infrastructure, Alenka Bratušek, was in her opinion on the introduction of a tachograph in combined vehicles 14. 1. 2019 wrote, citing that "it is the right way to regulate uniformly at EU level the obligation to install tachographs for the vehicles mentioned above". Again, nothing happened. When we proposed an amendment to the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in January 2019 – June 2020, we proposed that Slovenia, at EU level, in the negotiations on amendments to the rules on road transport and social legislation, should, as soon as possible, adopt a mandatory installation of tachographs in light trucks carrying out commercial transport of persons and goods, the then ruling coalition and the current ruling party voted against this amendment. That is to say, for many years, a long-standing statement on the regulation of the European Union, when we have to protect drivers at European Union level, not at national level, but when we come to the point that the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union is committed to ensuring that drivers get to their hospitals, to rest so that their social security on the road is protected by tachographs, and then not by tachographs. And even today, after four years of delinquency and seeking excuses from the executive branch of power, we were able to listen to how these things should be regulated at EU level in order to be needed; yes, but there is no interest in that. And because it is not in the interest of capital that could no longer be used so harshly and shamelessly by professional drivers, and it is not in the interests of capital, nor is it in the interest of the ruling policy. This time, drivers will remain dry thanks to the SDS, NSI and SMC coalition and will continue to spend all day on roads without rest, without adequate payment and without social security.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc will be presented as the last position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act states that the main objective of the amendment is to abolish the chasm, increase the social security of drivers and increase transport safety. The draft law therefore proposes, inter alia, that the carrier with the driver of the vehicle be required to conclude a contract of employment, and this would not apply to a driver who is at the same time licensed and has the status of an employed person. The contract of employment and evidence of payments and contributions paid for the last three months should be made available to the driver during the journey in the vehicle, in the opinion of the applicant, thus facilitating the supervision of the work inspection. The Transport Section at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Association for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia oppose the proposal of the law and treat it as unacceptable. They point out that the proposed compulsory employment of drivers for a certain or indefinite period prevents the implementation of other existing and legal forms of transport employment, which are often used in smaller family transport companies, in particular for the employment of family members or pensioners. However, the additional documentation on the vehicle does not yet demonstrate greater social safety for drivers and greater road safety, but only represents an additional administrative burden for employees and employers. The fact is that supervisory authorities can access official records at any time and verify on the ground the forms of employment of drivers. At the same time, in New Slovenia, we point out that the sanctioning of non-deserving penitentiary work is necessary to regulate systematically and not in part, as it is present in all areas of social life and not only in the field of road transport. In addition, the bill proposed mandatory installation of tachographs also for smaller trucks weighing up to 3.5 tonnes and larger single-space vehicles for the transport of more than six passengers. The applicant submits that the equipment of tachograph vehicles would prevent fraud with regard to the recording of working hours on the road, thereby ensuring greater traffic safety for all road users. In the Transport Section of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Association of Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it is recalled that such a technical measure should be agreed at European Union level, since such an obligation would only apply to the domestic carrier, thereby placing it in an unequal position with foreign carriers which would not be subject to this obligation even though they would have driven across Slovenia. However, the Government has pointed out that a so-called mobility package was adopted at European Union level in 2020, which, inter alia, regulates the installation of tachographs in light cargo vehicles for the transport of goods, which will have to be equipped with tachographs in international transport by mid-2026. For all these reasons, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats - we have not supported the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act on the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-05-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote on Monday, 8 March, at 2 p.m. I wish everyone a nice day.
