ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the 73rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Ferenc Horváth, Mag. Dušan Verbič and Soniboy Prince until 12 o'clock. We invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I welcome all those present once again! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 73rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 May, with a reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure and the proposals for extending the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We are therefore moving on to a decision, but Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 73rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. TIME OF DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INSTITUTIONAL DISEASES LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the Secretary of State for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u2	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The emergence of new versions of the coronary virus poses a major threat to the spread of infection faster. If we are to ensure long-term control of the expansion of the coronavirus and thus ensure normalisation of the situation, we need to ensure a system of control over measures that will not unduly burden the profession and the individual who will take advantage of all technological options and at the same time contribute to sustainable respect for key epidemiological measures. The Government's amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases before you reintroduces control over the implementation of quarantine at home. With the proposed novel, we allow NIJZ to send a person who has been in high-risk contact with an infected person, or the police will send a person who comes from a high-risk area to a quarantine at home in a way that will voluntarily sign a quarantine declaration at home. The quarantine at home is one of the key measures to contain the epidemic in isolation from the sick and other general measures. In practice, this means that a person is lonely at the home address and is confined to those who live with him in a joint household for a period of contagion, as specified by the profession. In accordance with the proposed provisions of the law, an individual who will remain quarantined at home will be able to visit the health inspector and determine whether the person is at home or at the address of the stay and respects the NIJZ instructions. For non-compliance with the measure, fines of between 400 and 4 000 euros are provided for, which is already provided for in the Act on Infectious Diseases. For this purpose, it is envisaged to establish the necessary records to allow for consistent compliance with the measure. If the person rejects the signature of the declaration, the NIJZ or the police will immediately provide information on the person to the Ministry of Health, which will order the quarantine at home by decision. There is no appeal against the decision, but there may be an administrative dispute. Respect for quarantine at home has been compulsory by now. Most people respected that. The difference with existing legislation is that health inspectors will now systematically check the implementation of this measure. It remains in force that all employees assigned to the home quarantine will be compensated on the basis of evidence. The quarantine at home has often been the subject of controversy, in which some of the measures have been defined as the most possible infringement of the individual’s movement, while others consider it an obligation of an individual to protect others from the possibility of infection. From the beginning of the epidemic, we have been searching within the legal system for an appropriate solution, which would be simple, and in particular would encourage people to stay at home if they were potentially contagious. To this end, certificates have also been introduced to provide income compensation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal be considered following an urgent procedure, in order to prevent in due time the severe remedial effects on the individual, the functioning of the State and the economy, particularly in the light of the spread of the new strains. In the light of the latest developments that the Government has followed, the department has prepared the additions that are before you. Complements of the proposal of the Infectious Diseases Act also regulate the acquisition of a quarantine declaration at home through an information solution in which a person can enter the data himself. In the event of arrival from a high-risk zone for infection, this will mean police unloading at entry points in the Republic of Slovenia and reducing administrative procedures at borders, which will affect the time of entry into the country. New additions following the meeting of the Health Committee follow the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly by clearly defining the distinction between quarantine and quarantine at home and clarifying the procedure and competences for the posting or assignment of quarantine at home. Data obtained by the competent authorities or provided by the person himself to obtain a quarantine declaration at home through an information solution shall also be redefined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u3	Thank you very much, mag. Vindisar. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother body and I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u4	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. The Health Committee is at its 52nd emergency session of 10. 5. 2021 As a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary to the Ministry of Health mag. Franz Výndišar, who is with us today. He stressed that the new Law on Infectious Diseases introduced quarantine at home and control over its implementation. The bill also sets out the records necessary for the supervision and exercise of quarantine at home as an offence. This protects the health of all inhabitants and prevents the further spread of covid-19, including new versions of SARS-COV-2. Mrs Špela Maček Gustin, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the bill introduces a special form of quarantine at home, which is supposed to be an exception to the current regulation. In addition to the current Article 19 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, new articles are added and a special transitional regime is also provided for. In addition to the content comments, the additional comments concern in particular the introduction of a new quarantine institution at home, which is vaguely differentiated from the general form of quarantine both in terms of its reasons and the procedure, and in particular the powers of the authorities involved in this procedure. By means of the amendments tabled by the coalition groups at the parent meeting of the Committee, some comments by the ZPS have already been taken into account and resolved. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Vice-President Daniel Kastelic. He stressed that the Commission had considered the proposal twice and supported it with certain comments. At the meeting of the Commission, the question of the appropriateness of the intended amount of the fine was raised. The comments also referred to the set of data for the home quarantine record held by the Institute of Public Health as the basis for monitoring and monitoring the home quarantine measure. The opinion on the bill was also presented by a representative of the Slovenian Doctors Initiative. Some opposition Members were critical to the bill and also opposed the urgent procedure. They drew attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments submitted. In their view, the proposal is unclear, insufficiently concrete, interference with the principle of freedom of movement, the rule of law, the principle of equality before the law, the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of legality. In their opinion, the law is inconsistent with the Constitution. As inappropriate, the NIJZ and the police are assessing the powers to go to quarantine. On the contrary, the coalition Members supported the proposed amendments. They agreed that the text of the bill to the meeting of the National Assembly could be further supplemented and improved. The fight against the epidemic requires certain measures that have not only been taken in Slovenia but also wider. Many countries have taken significantly worse measures than we have. The coalition MPs also rejected the opposition's findings that the profession was not taken into account in the epidemic and in the drafting of laws. They also stressed that everyone has the right and duty to protect his or her health and the health of others against diseases. The Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I once again give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, she will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u6	Thank you very much again. The protection of the population against communicable diseases includes a system of social, group and individual activities and measures to prevent, control, treat and eliminate their consequences. Everyone has the right to protection against communicable diseases and at the same time the duty to protect their health and the health of others against these diseases. In such cases, it is the duty of the State to protect the population in such a way as to introduce all necessary measures. And that's exactly what we're doing. Quarantine is an anti-epidemic measure and we must also understand it in this regard. This is one of the oldest and most effective measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. The emergence of new versions of SARS-COV-2 poses a great threat to faster spread of infections. It is therefore necessary to strictly follow the epidemiological guidelines when it comes to persons who have been in contact with an infected person or who come from endangered areas to remain quarantined at home in a way that they are not in contact with persons who are not members of their household. The novelty that we are considering today thus introduces quarantine at home and supervision over its implementation. One of the key objectives is to define more modernly the obligation of individuals to ensure the general protection of the population against communicable diseases. The bill also sets out the necessary records necessary for the monitoring and monitoring of the measure and provides for the non-implementation of quarantine at home as an offence. Similar solutions are available to countries in our neighbourhood, for example in Germany, to supplement the Law on the Protection and Prevention of Infectious Diseases in People, which defines protective measures to prevent the spread of covida-19. The measures also prohibit the exit from the apartment. The law also provides that individuals or institutions who violate the provisions of the law or safeguard measures shall be punished with a financial penalty. For certain infringements, the law even provides for a prison sentence, for example for the deliberate spread of communicable diseases. The new law implementing quarantine at home, which we are considering today, provides that a person who has been at high risk of being infected or who comes from a high risk zone for infection is lonely for the longest incubation period, also ensures that the infectious disease does not spread in the working environment, which is also important for our economy. The proposed marriage solutions will contribute to better control of communicable diseases and thus to the public health of the population of Slovenia and the sustainability of the health system. In addition to all of this, respectable ones, let us not forget today the vaccination that will decisively help us to relaunch all areas of life and return to the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u7	The next position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u8	Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are clear. The size of the individual parliamentary group and the relationship between members of the coalition and the opposition should be taken into account in the distribution of jobs in the working bodies. Instead, the coalition with supporters has been blocking the full functioning of opposition members in working bodies for almost two months, 49 days. The coalition, with the support of Desus and the SNS, is acquiring cities and, above all, votes that do not belong to it. Also on the Home Committee, the Health Committee, on which Members of the LMŠ have not participated. The current situation, where votes are not distributed in proportion between the opposition and the coalition, raises questions not only about the legitimacy of the decision-making of the working bodies, but about the overall legislative process. That's why the LMSH protest. We want to achieve an end to this unconstitutional situation. Even though we've been left alone, it's not that hard. We believe we're doing the right thing. What will be the consequences for us, for the client, and don't worry about us. The objective is more important: protecting democracy and its values. The novels of the Law on Infectious Diseases also fall under the category of illegal legislative procedures, neglecting that there is another type of extremely harmful proposal. It is at least constitutionally controversial because it interferes with fundamental human rights and freedoms. Many provisions are vaguely defined and left to free interpretation, but this has become self-evident in this government and in this coalition. Like a series of unconstitutional and planted laws in so-called PKP packages. Let us just think of some past: additional unfounded police powers that the police could enter into individual housing; controversial processing of identification data; you also wanted to legislate a provision by which the Government could restrict or prohibit the gathering of people in private places and premises; and you also wanted to legalize abnormal penalties for people who disagree with you. And we could list it. You yourself have prepared the first text of the law that you will consider today, which has been so badly written that you yourself have tabled a new text which, from the legislative and legal point of view of the proposed solution, has improved little. However, the contents of the disaster remain the same. In LMŠ, we will also continue to seek to eliminate the unconstitutional situation in the National Assembly by obstructing our working bodies. This does not mean that we will make the work easier for the government of John Janša. On the contrary! We're gonna look even more closely at her.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u10	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with co-worker, the rest of the audience are warmly welcomed! Quarantine is an important measure in the control of infectious diseases, in the control of epidemics, and this cannot be disputed. But it's hard to talk about quarantine 14 months after the outbreak of the epidemic. This shows that we do not know what are the priorities in this country and what are the priorities in controlling the epidemic, which, ultimately, shows the disastrous results of controlling the epidemic. When we heard that a novel of the Law on Infectious Diseases was coming to the National Assembly, we wondered what was the most not working right now. And in the first place, we have placed inadequate communication and information between citizens and citizens, which is not credible, which is not systematically in a way that inspires confidence with its own example, and which is constantly under pressure from political interests. So we expected that a slightly better model could be presented, how to communicate the epidemic, how to remove the policy fingers, and this is not the case in this new law. Then we asked ourselves what might be the second priority. It is clear that Slovenia, as a number of other countries, has simply missed out on the fact that infections occur more or less in closed areas. Instead of motivating citizens and citizens, go outside, make it clear that the possibility of an infection outside is minimal ï some professional organisations even find that there will be 7,000 against one infection outside of the premises, Slovenia has continued to insist on strict misdeeds of police action outside the premises, to impose inappropriate, impossible penalties on people who ate the pack together with their family, and to introduce measures which the Constitutional Court later repealed. And she began to think very carefully about how to control the aerosols by not allowing the ruling one to have his opinion reasoned, heard, so that the effects would be told by those who master it. They're engineers. And we got something ahead of us that would be expected at the beginning of the epidemic, how better to expose the quarantine system in this country. I must say right now that we do not even know exactly what we are talking about at this time, because it is on the committee and today it has been said that some documents were still being produced after the committee's meeting. We're not available at this point in our search. Because they're not reachable! Do you think that the adoption of laws is a private hobby of this current government, that you suggest to Members and Members that we will get some better, newer, this time constitutional solutions, and we do not see them anywhere. This is a marked degradation of the work of Parliament, which is above the government! This Parliament elects a government, and you act as if you are subject to it as a whole. And what you wrote in the draft or in the proposal that is available to us, we do not know if the latest version is a grave intervention in the right to freedom of movement guaranteed by Article 32 of the Constitution. Yes, this right may be limited in a transparent, understandable and proportionate way, but this is not in your proposals. Your proposals contain solutions to which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that there is a high likelihood that they are constitutionally conflicted by Article 14 of the Constitution, which speaks of equality before the law, Article 2 of the Constitution, which refers to the principle of the rule of law, and Article 22 of the Constitution, which speaks of the principle of equal protection of rights. So you will accept something you should accept if necessary at least ten months earlier. Because it is not possible to have a serious professional discussion by telling experts whether the solution is likely to be constitutionally acceptable, and because there is a high likelihood that you will find again that you have reached an administrative deadline. And she won't even apologize to you this time. That's how you do it. And that's why we don't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u12	Thank you very much. President, I have a procedural proposal to ask you to alert the predecessor, which is the case. The amendments mentioned above are tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the Members are ignorant or do not prepare enough for the meeting, this is not our problem now, but we cannot speak and no one can speak in this national assembly that the amendments are not tabled if they are and are tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we are not talking about something, but we are talking about the amendments tabled, and it is also important for citizens and citizens to know. My procedural proposal, however, is to call on the SD representative who presented the position to contact the website or e-club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u13	Yes, thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, in fact, in my opinion, the procedural proposal has not been corrected. You could explain all this in the debate, but in fact you commented on the position of the SD Group, which was just what it was, wasn't it? The debates are to negate any statement from the views of the groups. Nevertheless, I would like a procedural proposal from the Magi. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u14	Madam Vice-President, please inform the President of the Health Committee that, if she feels on her committee as a god acting in one way or another, she must, where the plenary woman is right or wrong, decide who is in charge of this meeting and not to take advantage of the business provisions, including as regards this proposal, which she has made for discussion with individual Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u15	Yes, thank you very much. I already warned her. The debates are to comment on the views of the parliamentary groups and I think we can stop. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, if you have a procedural proposal regarding the procedure [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And please, if you tell me where the session was broken, otherwise I'll give you a warning, because it'll be a second consecutive violation. Just a warning, well-intentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u16	It is, respectfully, my proposal, procedural and once again, I have not talked about the content, I have talked about the fact that it has been said that the amendments have not been tabled. The amendments are part of the procedure and also these agenda items and these amendments have been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and no one can say that there is nothing if there is. Otherwise you like to say that something is "no paper", although it is not, but this time it is, and you claim it is not. And that's all I was talking about. I don't care how someone defines themselves, but the content, only that we have a content that they say is not. This is part of our procedure, because we will also decide on the amendments. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u17	Thank you very much. One more time. Ms Anja Bah Žibert, 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which defines a procedural proposal, instructs the Member to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure. Now, with regard to the amendment, you said that I was saying that the amendments had not been tabled. So that's the substantive position that the mag is making. He expressed his position on behalf of the Group of Members. This is not a matter of procedure, it is an express opinion through the position of the Group of Members and I have warned you earlier that you are not abusing the procedural proposal to dispute the position of the Group of Members, and I am giving you a reminder here. I would now like to propose that we end these procedural proposals and proceed with our views. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Over the past year, all political groups have started their talks in a way that the covida-19 epidemic has revealed this or that. That, for example, the chains of global capitalism are highly vulnerable to supply and that we must therefore build a closed national economy, as we often point out in Levica. Or that private health care with the health challenges of the 21st century is unable to face the collapse of covida-19 in the epidemic and what we need is public health. Well, today we are discussing a new law on infectious diseases, which could be placed in the category, the covida-19 epidemic has revealed only that in this particular case the desperate subjugation of the legal matter, which has long been neglected. For a year and a half, the government of Janez Janša took this matter to prepare, and so on the table we received a novel in today’s debate, which was long fought by seven articles and was in desperate turmoil. You can't say that better than that. During the year-and-a-half-long Calvary of the preparation of this novel, the Law-Legal Service has hung the following characteristics: that it is full of vague and undefined notions that there are contradictions within the law itself, that there are infringements of rules that are not defined at all, that there is an inclusion of the right to compensation for quarantine, which is not clearly defined and we do not know under which law these rights are exercised. At the same time in law, ladies and gentlemen, you introduce some statements that are not a decision, not a recommendation, not a thing. In short, you needed a year and a half in the middle of the epidemic to intervene in the Infectious Diseases Act, and yet when you came to the National Assembly with this intervention, it turned out that you brought a smoldering. But the main issue and the main problem of this law is not even the legal form and structure of its provisions, but it is substantive. It's a long story. In short, in these seven provisions of yours you basically do not do much else than introduce a quarantine option, even though the epidemic has not been declared. And this quarantine is supposed to be passed by the epidemic, once again, at the initiative of the National Institute for Public Health. In translation – Janez Janša and his tenant, Milan Krek, will say, an epidemic up or down if a person is imprisoned in his apartment. This is, of course, very difficult to read as any serious measures against the epidemic and the correction of the Law on Infectious Diseases where it should be corrected. Previously, it is an intervention in civil liberties, which Janez Janša is so fond of and which, under the cover of the covida-19 epidemic, is largely carried out throughout the country. On the other hand, it is also a class measure. Proclamation of the epidemic has a considerable impact. For example, for public servants who work in contact with persons infected with covid-19 in a particular case, they belong to them in health care homes, nursing homes and thus to the collective contract for work in the covida-19 epidemic. However, if we are dealing with an infectious disease that is bad enough for the Janez Janša government to put people in quarantine, it is not considered by this government to be serious enough to pay the allowance to employees in health and care institutions. What, then, should we think of such a change in marriage? We have seen the precedent in the autumn of this year, when the situation was long overdue to declare the epidemic, and the government has been stalling and stalling with it. She didn't announce it until mid-October. Why? Yes, because she is in harm's way for any money for an epidemic allowance, if this supplement is received by regular employees: nurses, nurses and so on. On the other hand, it is in no way in harm's way to save money for capital, which is another of the leitmotivs that we can understand from the current intervention into the Law on Infectious Diseases. So we have a disease, Janez Janša's government would send people into quarantine, but at the same time it would not protect them in a way that would stop industrial zones if it were necessary, as we have been doing this discussion in the last year of the declared epidemic. And we're going to vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Iva Dimic. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u20	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As a result of the covida-19 epidemic, the National Institute for Public Health, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and other health and social institutions, as well as us, individuals, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, have become a priority in providing general protection for the population against communicable diseases in the last year. The emergence of new variants or mutations of SARS-COV-2 poses a major threat to the rapid spread of infection while at the same time requiring strict compliance with epidemiological instructions. People who have been in contact with an infected person or who come from endangered areas are likely all aware of the situation and dimensions of the epidemic in India, remain quarantined at home in a way that they are not in contact with persons who are not members of their household. The New Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are dealing with today, introduces quarantine at home and controls its implementation, whether a person has been quarantined by the National Institute for Public Health, Police or otherwise. The notice also sets out the records necessary to monitor and monitor the measures and to determine the non-execution of quarantine at home as an offence; sets out the professional basis for monitoring the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; sets out the personal data obtained for the purpose of preparing the declaration of quarantine at home. The proposal to amend the law is based on principles such as the principle of eligibility for protection against communicable diseases and infections; the principle of proportionality, which means that the law does not unduly affect the rights of the individual; the principle of solidarity, which favours the public interest over the interests of the individual in order to ensure effective health protection of the community as a whole. Surely, when the epidemic occurs, personal responsibility is of utmost importance, primarily to itself, to friends and also to a wider society. We have witnessed this in the last year, when the infections due to various celebrations, events, martinis in certain areas of Slovenia spread faster. SARS-COV-2 is a new virus that we have come to know a little better in the last year, but due to rapid mutations and still new versions it is still a puzzle for scientists, health workers and people. I thank the healthcare professionals and all those who have unselfishly spent this year beyond their capabilities again on behalf of New Slovenia, because we can never thank you enough for your efforts and for the inhuman efforts we have made. Thank you very much. I wish that, taking into account measures such as masking, decontamination of the deadlines, maintaining the appropriate safety distance and, in particular, vaccination, we would soon live as we did a year ago. When we reach the intersection, I really hope that we can get back to life, as we knew him two years ago. We all want companionship, relaxed and genuine relations and permissiveness, which will only be possible if we are all responsible not only for ourselves but also for others. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting I'm here for! The New Law on Infectious Diseases is one of the many legal changes that have emerged in the last year as a response to the covida-19 epidemic. In addition to coping with the many consequences for citizens and the economy and trying to mitigate these consequences, the new versions of the virus seem to prolong the epidemic and guide us to find new solutions and to extend already verified solutions to a successful exit from the current crisis. These refer primarily to a more practical and detailed home quarantine regime in the novel we are considering today. The New Law on Infectious Diseases introduces quarantine at home and controls its implementation. The bill also regulates the keeping of records necessary for the supervision and monitoring of the home quarantine measure. The amendments adopted on the parent committee have addressed some of the shortcomings that have been necessary due to the possible misinterpretation of the temporary limitation of freedom of movement in the way that the complementary proposal now sets out clear criteria, how and in which cases the measure may be determined even when it is not a plague, a viral haemorrhagic fever or the cause of another communicable disease which is declared an epidemic. It is also more precisely defined what is considered to be a contact with an infectious disease agent and who and when to identify a high-risk area for infection. A high-risk zone for infection with a particular communicable disease and possible exemptions from quarantine for persons coming from these areas will be established by the Government on the basis of an epidemiological assessment by the Institute responsible for the protection of public health, data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and other criteria for determining high-risk areas for infection. Some of the amendments adopted in the paper under consideration are followed by a comprehensive regulation of the posting to a quarantined home in one place. It is therefore envisaged to obtain a statement of introduction to a quarantine at home through an information solution whereby a person may unannouncedly undertake to remain at the home address chosen and stated in the declaration and to limit physical contact with persons who do not live in the same household during the duration of the quarantine. Some additions have also arranged for a way of personal service of the declaration or service to the person’s e-mail address. The additional proposal also states that the declaration is irrevocable. An important novelty is also an extension of the time during which a quarantine certificate at home can also be obtained in case of high-risk contact with a person infected with a new coronary virus. This period shall be extended until the end of the year, allowing the beneficiary longer time to exercise the right to pay. Mindful of the fact that Slovenia is only one of the many countries affected by the epidemic and the fact that we need proportionate measures taken to protect the health of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre in the Parliamentary Group of the Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amended Law on Infectious Diseases does not meet us for the first time in this term. You could even say that the law in question is the highest ranking of the most important laws in the last year. In fact, the government intervened with almost every antikoronic package. In the SAB, of course, we have not forgotten your proposals for the expansion of police powers and the idea of restricting and prohibiting the gathering of people in private places and premises which, by a miracle and apparently unannounced, have been gathered under anti-Korona laws. For example, the idea of punishing individuals who do not respect restrictions on the gathering of people in public places and those who publicly call for violations of the ban on gathering and gathering. This time, however, there is a new novel in front of us, following an urgent procedure; a novel that follows the objective of a successful fight against the epidemic, but at the same time creates the unimaginable legal basis for punishing citizens. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government's proposal is unclear, insufficiently concrete, interference with the principle of freedom of movement, the rule of law, the principle of equality before law, the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of legality. Therefore, in the opposition, we rightly ask ourselves whether this law also entails measures that interfere with human rights and freedoms in a way that is by no means preconceived and excessive. We are encouraged to think this way by the provisions of the law that are before us today, which foresees a high level of involvement of the police in the quarantine and even a new concept of the threat of an epidemic, for which there is no further explanation, what this concept means at all, and by what procedure the existence of the threat of an epidemic can be judged. And yet some controversial ideas, some have already been tested in the past, but they have not been accepted, are promised in this latest novel with some beautiful corrections to pass through the parliamentary board. After all this time and after all these decisions by the Constitutional Court, what can you do to make decisions that will maintain a constitutional judgment? Do you still think that you can contain the epidemic by sharpening measures and by interfering with a number of constitutionally protected rights and principles? This is particularly important in the fact that it took 174 days for you to find that the measure limiting movement at night, the so-called curfew, does not work and is very likely to have a disproportionate and disproportionate impact on human rights due to the lack of evidence of its effectiveness. According to your words, the well-respected government is dying, and you are of the opinion that the government’s popularity will be increased by repressive measures taken under urgent procedures, where these measures are inadvertent, poorly reasoned, and there is a great possibility that in a new assessment in the Constitutional Court they will also be found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. And finally; while we are arguing about proposals that no longer show any obvious need for intervention, the health system is still fighting its battle. The situation in the area of accessibility to health services, which is one of the critical points of the health system and health care in general, is still unsustainable and the light of improvements at the end of the tunnel is not yet in sight. The consequences in various areas will be long-lasting. The consequences of the long-term closure of educational institutions will be visible in children and young people for a long year. We have seen the biggest decline in the movement efficiency of Slovenian children since it has been monitored at all. Children have spent more time learning from home and have gained less knowledge because of the situation in the ever-increasing tribulations, anxiety, anger, impatient, apathetic, anxiety, and depression. Those are their words. There are also more suicides, and psychiatric institutions and clinics are full, and waiting types are full. Next. Seniors. Experts have seen a great increase in loneliness and the desire for social contacts. During the epidemic, visits to nursing homes were not possible, nor were the elderly able to visit each other, friends, and family. As a result, some elderly people have paid with their lives, and other elderly people have also lost many acquaintances and friends. Another aspect proved to be extremely problematic – anomalies in the payment of extras for work during the crisis. In other words, shamelessly high allowances for the electorate, which range to up to thousands of euros high on the one hand, and some 10 euros high supplements for those who have worked among them directly with the patients in the grey and red zones. Of course, helping people at the time of the epidemic is essential, and it is only right that those who were in the first ranks are rewarded. We will not support your proposal in PS SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have a supplement to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which is unfortunately necessary if we are to have a situation under control in the country when such a disease occurs. This is not only a covid-19 disease, but also a potential occurrence of other infectious diseases in the future. Unfortunately, the law inevitably interferes with certain rights, so it is only right that I take a cautious and proportionate approach to changes. The proposed amendment of the law also introduces quarantine at home and supervision of its implementation in order to protect the health of all residents. To this end, a record will be set up to allow such control. The health inspectors will monitor whether the measure is being taken into account in a consistent manner. Respect for the quarantine measure at home has, of course, been compulsory so far if the person has been sent to it by the National Institute for Public Health, the police at the border or the person has stayed home alone because he has received a notice from the application Stay healthy or directly from the infected person. Most people have taken the measure into account. With the implementation of this law, health inspectors will now systematically check the implementation of this measure, as only in the way that when this is said will we all stick to it will it be actually effective. We are currently facing the emergence of new versions of SARS-COV-2, which pose a great threat to the spread of infection faster. The person will be sent back to quarantine by the NIJ or the police by signing a statement of familiarity with the posting of quarantine at home. For persons who do not sign declarations, the amendment of the law provides that they shall be issued with a decision of the Ministry of Health. The law also defines an information solution that will simplify quarantine procedures. Intervention of such an information solution will, among other things, speed up border crossing procedures in the future, which is certainly positive and welcome. All proposed amendments were adopted in the context of the consideration of the draft law on the labour market, which is important in view of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the discussion, the representative also said that in the light of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, the diction to the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly could be improved and, of course, we also welcome this through today's amendments. It is important that the legal regime is substantive and procedurally clear. In the Desus Group we will support this proposal today. We will support him in his desire that the rules be clear and we will all stick to them. We will support it with the aim of halting the spread of disease and normalising the situation in society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! For the past 14 months, the Coronavirus has been intensively shaping our lives and our political activities, resulting in forever changing the patterns of our conduct. The trend of stopping and preventing the spread of the virus is currently positive, which gives us all together the optimism that we are slowly returning to the old lifelines, but with a new socio-political epidemic experience. Although difficult, unforgivable, it showed us how important social and political cohesion is in overcoming it. Quarantine is a measure that has helped to control the spread of the virus, but its effectiveness has been dependent on the regularity and placement of the number of infected indicators on the curve. We must recognise that in the epidemiologically most challenging situations, the confusion surrounding the appropriateness of the quarantine regime was so great that it prevented effective control of its implementation. Several attempts have already been made within the framework of anti-Korona laws to regulate this issue at legal level, but attempts have shown the clear need for this issue to be addressed in the primary law on communicable diseases and that the trials so far have not been optimal, as they have been rectified in any further anti-Korona law or cut back. Today, at last, even partially, this law opens and makes sense to regulate quarantine at home and exercise control. And that, however, it was prepared by the Ministry of Health, and not by the repressive Ministry of the Interior, which has been forced to do so in previous anti-Korona packages. The proposed regulation is still not optimal, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out in its comments, but is prepared to ensure that the general protection of the population against communicable disease is ensured and that it lays down the necessary records to monitor the implementation of quarantine at home. Everyone has the right to protection against communicable diseases and infections, but at the same time he has the right and the duty to protect his or her health and his or her health. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we would like to see that we have internalized this fact to the point of awareness that sufficient bridging is the only real solution to overcoming the epidemic, so that by our conduct and taking into account meaningful measures we can help to return to the old, normal life tracks when we can drink coffee in peace, we can go on a trip without confirmation of the eligibility of crossing the regional borders, finally visit theatres and cultural and sporting events. Citizens and citizens deserve this more than they deserve and rightly expect from decision makers. We also addressed this appeal to the Government yesterday. And since the consistent legal regime of quarantine at home and the supervision of its implementation can help, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Group of Unbound Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš's last turn. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u30	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Your Honor! The contents of the law reflect the present state or spirit of the time we are in. The government is working within its capabilities, as is seen in this marriage text. Currently, the current quarantine provisions are no longer sufficient in relation to the situation we have in society. In addition to rights, the infected person has a number of obligations, but they are not carried out consistently. It is the duty of each citizen to ensure the safety of other fellow citizens by his responsible conduct. The problem we see here is that all these measures want to be defined surgically in the law because people no longer respect the rule of law. Also, many citizens no longer have any relation to uniformed professions and public administrations. Certain groups see the theory of conspiracy and start deliberately acting in conflict and provoke provocations by officials. That's what they're doing. They're breaking the state code. In their defence, they refer to the human right to freedom of movement and assembly and association. At the same time, these persons forget Article 16 of the Constitution, which speaks of those rights being restricted in certain cases. If people respected the measures taken by the authorities, we believe that they would not accept this law today. At this point, I call on citizens to show an appropriate attitude towards officials, as they are, after all, their citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u32	Yes, thank you for your word. The positions ended with the "Government of Work within its capabilities" – obviously we have difficulties with our capabilities. Fourteen months after most of the time we were in some state of epidemic, often the state of lockdowns, trying to regulate quarantine issues. I don't know what you've been doing for a year. They've been circling us for a year, especially in industrial plants as one of the main hotspots. The government is not only working within its capabilities, but working within its own framework, and I'm going to say here, because I've looked at Miho, ideologies. It's the ideology of a stick. After all, the State Council politely told you to gather around a little about this. If I touch the breach of the measures. Who were the main violators of the measures in the last 14 months? Who was there almost to breathe we were not allowed on the balcony without a mask, who was walking under my birth village and violating measures? Who's been walking somewhere, out there, in Shentvid, violating measures? Who went to my mother-in-law's house to eat my birthday white grass? What mayor from Dolenjska went to play golf in Prekmurje? Ministers of this government, vice-presidents of this government, president of this government, yellow-and-blue mayors. And then trouble with the nation. It is likely that 85% of us should be replaced. On the committee itself, there was talk of all living things, but at the very least it was talked about what the Law-Legal Service was very much exposed to. We have already had a 15-month unlit discharge to rule and govern this country with some decisions. The laws are highly subdued, unclear, with more than a clear dictatorship of constitutional dispute. Also, the new law, the 2 billion needed by health care for infrastructure, the 9th articles, I think, 7', transitional decisions, up, down, will become concrete, who drinks, who pays, who controls – we care. On the other hand, we're going to be a citizen, I don't know what, we're going to get locked up by the best of batteries like a chicken breed – or what? And then you're surprised, aren't you? To me, the question is why we are not stricken as Israel when we might be. This question was also addressed by Dejan. Today you also have a agenda item, you want a new secretary of state at the Ministry of Health. I don't know what Jelka Godec Jan Mahnic's doing dealing with security issues, or is there literally a school run by all of us on Twitter? Vinko Gorenak what's he doing? He writes columns as Secretary of State, and you have a lady from the Legal and Legislative Service, including a Cabinet Secretary of State, and we get such scars out of the law. I think so! It seems to me that there is an epidemic with which we have problems, this government, and that we must overcome this epidemic as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The point around which there can be no controversy is the fact that the Law on Infectious Diseases is subdued, as it turned out in the covida-19 epidemic, even very heavily subdued. But the government of Janez Janša, regardless of the intensity of the epidemic, has taken for a year and a half to bring a novel to the National Assembly to bring an anti-infectious state of the Law on Infectious Diseases to an end. How? By bringing together seven articles that had worsened the desperate situation in the Law on Infectious Diseases rather than improved. This novel by the government of Janez Janša does not solve any of the pressing problems that the Law on Infectious Diseases has, but contains basically one fundamental solution, which is not that people, individuals, can be quarantined at home, even if the epidemic is not declared. And this quarantine can be determined on the basis of the input that the National Institute for Public Health will bring to the Government. Or, if I translate to you, ladies and gentlemen, into a concrete situation – Milan Krek and Janez Janša will be citizens and citizens – an epidemic up or down, whether or not there is – can order them to stay at home and lock them in their own apartments. How very problematic this is from the point of view of interference with civil liberties, I do not have to point out. We have already seen a bill for the food supplier, attempts to bankrupt taxi drivers who stand up to the government of Janez Janša and her crazy actions at the edge and so on. What seems more important to me is the second part of this equation, often a little bit more hidden, in the last year the government of Janez Janša has been pursuing two fundamental priorities, namely that it is itself concrete in power, while looting the common assets of citizens and citizens, all the wealth created and passing it into the pockets of the capitalist class in general. From this title, we have received more than a billion and 700 million euros of hard private capital resolution, and five times less the amount that went to citizens and citizens in the form of various solidarity aids. The Law on Infectious Diseases, as brought into the National Assembly, continues with this logic. It foresees this government correction that we will have such a severe health situation that citizens and citizens will need to be quarantined at home whether the epidemic is declared or not, while at the same time this situation will magically not be so severe that a health proletariat, such as nurses and nurses in nursing homes, is entitled to crisis supplements which, in the context of the epidemic, belong to them under their collective agreement. And it saves on working people! There is also a difference between working people, not financial ones, at the expense of their health. If the epidemic is not announced, it will be very difficult to talk about the need to prevent the spread of infections, such as in the workplaces, that it is necessary to stop industrial zones because employers, too many, are reviving the health of their employees; all they are interested in is the profits they can extract from them. Again, an epidemic up or down. In such a way that this government's slagbageering and also legal-formal neglect of the Infectious Diseases Act is also overly following the class agenda, not only is it an agenda that interferes with civil liberties and restricts their movement. These 7 articles, which I have defined as shababisers – see what the Legislative and Legal Service has said about them: that there are unclear and undefined notions here that there are contradictions within the law itself, that there are supposed violations of rules that are not defined at all, that there is a right to compensation for quarantine, which is not clearly defined, nor do we know under which law rights are exercised, at the same time some statements, which are not non-decisions, nor recommendations, are introduced. In short, for a year and a half, the government of Janez Janša has needed to amend the Law on Infectious Diseases, which are not any repairs, but some horrendous shabbazer splinter, based on the fact that the movement of people is limited, whether there is an epidemic or an epidemic, and that capitalism is also allowed to continue in the context of the epidemic. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Yes, a year and a half since the outbreak and the government of Janez Janša has put this thing on our table. And why are we at the summit of the European Union after the mortality of the people? Of course, because of the incompetence of this government, because of its shortsightedness and, above all, greed. Greed is what this woman's government is and we're witness to being kidnapped by the state. Completely kidnapped. I'll tell you why. Because we continue to face unconstitutional provisions, then the abuse of the police, which attacks the citizens who should protect them, and also here in this law we could barely prevent them from breaking into our homes and deciding for themselves, and the penalties for eating burek and so on. [[…]] In short, what did the government do for a year and a half? Instead of starting a law to prevent communicable diseases right away, it spread panic, confusion, chaos, chaos, schoolchildren didn't know whether they were going to work or not on Monday, the measures are completely unclear, because, of course, controlling the epidemic is not the priority of this government, but completely different things. So, attack. And trumpets that divert attention, the desire to take over everything, the sale of state property, the issue of national interest, the questionable business with the acquisition of medical equipment, the wealth of individuals at the expense of citizens and citizens, the destruction of existence, the endless death of elderly people, the hardships in families where we know that there is increasing family violence, suicide, psychological distress, disease and so on. In short, the abuse of the epidemic to take power and the introduction of a totalitarian society that we really don't want. Totalitarianism is also reflected in this Parliament in the context of non-democraticism, as you have taken the voting rights of the opposition Members. It has also been seen today in the debate about the attacks on the views of other parliamentary groups, then the abuse of the media network of party trumpets, even the desire to ban a parliamentary party, which is indeed the same as in Nazi Germany in the 1930s. And of course, we have a completely professional disaster. We know how Kacin managed your reporting when he says, "Let's go a little joke," now commentator Nove24 will continue to lead your vaccination, and people die in between. Old people die in homes, infections spread in hospitals. And don't tell me, I mean, really distasteful, when I hear, sorry, New Slovenia's Ambassador, her, we can't thank the medical staff enough. We can't! Thank you, no! But they have to be paid, respectable. Thanks for not getting bread. When we propose a crisis allowance for nurses, you all vote against it on the right. [[advertising from the hall]] And look into their eyes when you come to the exam! You're saying it's a deliberate spread of infection. How do government representatives respond? How did the Continent walk his fingernails? How did Logar wait in the gallery for his positive test? Hoys, how did he walk around? And who went skiing in Kranjsko Gora? What about Croatia? As my colleague had previously said, weed to the mother-in-law while the citizens and the citizens were at home. And another thing to remember, in the PKPs, we have always proposed a hundred percent remuneration for the quarantine of employees. They walk sick, infected to work because they can't survive with such a low salary if they only get 80%. No! No! This measure has not been adopted. The following anti-korona measure should be added to the employer's job-saving provision that at least three months after this decision he cannot forgive employees. What happened? Three companies picked up your capital allowances and fired the workers. I mean, how can you look people in the eye? In addition to mentioning the poor culture that whimpers, theatre is not allowed, concerts are not allowed, sports events are not allowed, but the secretary at the Ministry of Culture says that mass and religious rituals are. And we're looking at pictures without protective equipment. Come on! Stop ideologies [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Your time's up. Since the interest is still in the debate, I'm opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The first round of the debate is behind us, but if we could turn this debate around again, I could quickly conclude that, in fact, they have little or nothing to do with the bill itself. I constantly, even in a family or a friendly circle, talk to people and wonder what leads individuals or what leads them to see everything negative, black, they are all enemies, if not internal and external. What is it with these people that they have such bitterness and hatred? That's what I've been asking myself a lot. Hatred is one of the strongest emotions and certainly, if politics is translated into hatred, we must seriously ask ourselves, because at such times neither does the constitution help, nor does the laws. Because when hatred gets its wings, there's no going back. But let's just leave it. Let's go to the novelty of the law. It is extremely bad if a certain part of the policy on all the measures taken in this country to protect the population in order not to spread the epidemic, the pandemic, is said to be something that is not only in our country, but also broader, that every measure is assessed as evil, negative, unnecessary, of course, always after that; that it has not brought anything back; that measure has brought nothing; and that, on the other hand, the number of patients or even the dead is considered to be some partial smile. [[…]] Look, quarantine is just one of the epidemic measures, and it's rude for someone to operate quarantined as a measure of wanting to take human rights and to shut it down. This is a measure that is needed at some point, such a measure has already been known in the past, and this has also helped against individual infectious diseases, serious diseases, many have died. Of course, quarantine is not the only measure. Thank God we already have a vaccine that seems to be effective, and I hope that it will also be part of different forms or versions that we hear somehow that regret is also coming to our country. Thus, we can hope to be part of this epidemic by means of transplantation. But measures were not taken to take something away from people, but to actually help them help society as a whole to fight this virus. It has been said that the epidemic is being used to take power. You're kidding! That's what my colleague Violeta Tomic said. You know very well how this power exchange has been going on, but stop reading this authority, because it is made up of parties who have received their election results in the elections and as you always say you have support. Excuse me, Violeta Tomic, but we won the election. My number of votes is, I don't know, five times yours, that's right. You have been a spy candidate for some political options in Europe, and you know what happened to you in the European elections. So stop operating with us all the time as some enemies, an enemy client, incompetents, slagbags and so on. And the worst part about it is to see that you haven't even looked at the amendments. My colleague Kordish is still talking about the situation when the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on the amendments before we discussed them on the Committee and which we have today. All of these follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. And that's why the amendments are also applying to improve the law. Once you don't like it, because the amendments are applying to improve the marriage, the second time you talk about doing nothing to make the marriage better. These things have been settled and clearly followed the Legislative and Legal Service, and this has also improved the proposal for a law. But stop with these slabs and so on. At least on the part of those who are totalitarians.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. No amendment coming five before the 12th in the National Assembly can change the fact that we had more than a year in the new Law on Infectious Diseases in the Covida-19 epidemic and that it then came to the National Assembly with 7 articles and that these articles were mutually opposed, procedures were not determined and so on. And it's a shabbazer, no matter how many amendments you build on them. Nor is it the first, nor is it likely to be the last of the governments of Janez Janša, since we have the purchase of protective equipment and related corruption and until the vaccination of excessive deaths in the homes of older citizens. The key emphasis that I have given in the position of the Group of Members and in my debate is not even formalistic, but it is substantive. Basically, the government of Janez Janša wants to intervene in the Law on Infectious Diseases to ensure that people can be locked up in an apartment and called quarantine, while at the same time industrial plants would not be closed, although there is an epidemic of covida-19, probably another disease. It's normal. That's where the most interaction comes in. Why he does not want to do so – yes, because capitalist machinery has to turn, even though it is at the expense of the working class only so that friends of the government of Janez Janša can reap their profits, whether it is a social emergency or not. And that's the problem with this quarantine in the Infectious Diseases Act. Should quarantine be defined in the Law on Infectious Diseases and should it be better defined? Yes! But like everywhere else, you have used this situation to quarantine the epidemic, from some serious basis on which you can view it as a measure to protect public health and the health of individuals, and have it as something that can be done beyond the covida-19 epidemic. Or else, and to replace other debates and measures that are urgently necessary in the context of the spread of communicable diseases. And it goes far, far beyond; it doesn't start, nor does it end in the quarantine of the declared epidemic, but it starts with the social institutions. Even more so with economic institutions. But you, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to touch yourself, I repeat, because this would mean an intervention in the profits of capital in order to protect the health of the vast majority of citizens and citizens, but something like this is not on the agenda of the government of Janez Janša. This working class rather threatens and preys on him than helps him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u41	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally. He's got magic in his hands. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u42	Dear Chairman, look, somewhere near you is a small grey, a magic book called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I suggest you start using it, because, with what Levi has now done, I am talking about all the concerts together, for sure at least half the time has been spent on things that, with what we are dealing with today – with this law and with the proposed amendments – have nothing to do with it at all. And we should at least warn them and direct the debate by going in the right direction. But I also suggest that you warn them that the highlight of this is that socialists or socialists talk about human rights. There are simply those who disagree, as you know, whether you have killed or left them to starve to death as in your beloved Venezuela. The issue of human rights is not even on the agenda. So I suggest a little more seriousness, but of course we are primarily discussing the topic that is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes, for your procedural proposal. In the first part, I certainly agree, I have this booklet here, don't worry, and I can read it, just as I can listen to the debates of Members and Members. And now, according to my assessment, Comrade Kordish had a perfectly correct replica, because he just upgraded and explained what he was discussing in his first debate. As for the second part of your procedural proposal, however, it was completely substantive, because your understanding of human rights is likely to be, I suppose, significantly different from the perception of anyone or anyone in this Chamber. Thus, the second part of the procedural proposal was completely over and there was a substantive debate. So I suggest, if you don't mind, we proceed. First, Mrs. Violeta Tomic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Since colleague Anja Bah Žibert has mentioned me several times, allow me to replicate. We are in Parliament, Madam Representative of the largest coalition party. Yes, you are the greatest, but the Parliament comes from the word “parlare”. We have the right to speak, for now, even though the SDS party would be happy to take the right of the opposition to debate and debate and, of course, to a place in parliamentary working bodies, as well as some parties that she does not like, would just ban. But it's not working so far. And you say, when hatred comes, neither does the constitution. You know, it's the constitution and the laws that stop hatred, whether it's hidden behind beautiful, gentle words or it's said directly. We are used to speaking directly and representing our constituents. You can't deny it, even if I have such a result, different, because your media doesn't do anything but discredit every possible candidate. See, in the European Union, which you have already mentioned, we have representatives of women representatives from Croatia, Vojvodina, Serbia. There is no one from Slovenia because the SDS party is getting at anyone who would look a little out of this boiler. Discretions. We don't have a media space and Uncle Orbán doesn't finance us, and we know that you had an unlimited amount of money and money to take power. With that kind of money, we would have won the election, believe me. So, shut up, please. According to the result, the seats are divided and as long as we have these seats and as long as the voters support us, you have no right to challenge our democratic rights, which are represented by both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the law. So please, indeed, it is very inappropriate – your desire to silence the opposition. It won't work for now. We will continue to speak as long as the electorate wants to listen, support and vote. If you stop it, we'll see. I hope not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I would just like to call on all the debaters in good faith, given that we are still in Article 1, where, of course, in accordance with parliamentary practice, a broader debate is allowed and each broader debate interprets and incorporates such and different aspects in its own way. In terms of some support for the law before us, I would like to invite all those who still want to discuss to focus, however, on the content of the law, even if we explain a little more broadly, whether or not we link any parallels to another social arrangement to focus on the change of the law before us. Mrs. Škrnjar has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please, if you can warn the previous debate that it should not mislead the viewers, we cannot, and to warn them that there is an Electoral Law in the National Assembly, which specifies the financing of the parties. I think that here, in Parliament, there is room for “parlars”, to talk, but not to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u47	Mrs. Shriner, I'm here to warn you, not your colleague. There is no point in the procedural proposal that you speak, which legislation, we have laws in Slovenia, but it is a procedural proposal to draw attention to the management of the meeting. So if you have any substantive explanation for colleague Tomić, I suggest that you apply to the debate, there is an unlimited number of applications today, so that you are invited to the debate, and you clear that up there, if possible, within the framework of the law before us that we are dealing with, right? [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, I will give the floor to a procedural proposal, but in advance, as I warned colleague Bah Žibert at the outset, if you abuse the procedural proposal again in such a short period of time, I will give you my first warning. And I appeal to all of us to stop pingpongi with these procedural proposals that are not, Mrs Škrnjar. Now be so correct and talk about the use of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u48	Thank you very much. My opinion is that you are holding this meeting with extreme bias. But if you're going to give me a reminder, there's only going to be another reminder in the sequence that I got from you more than I gave as a teacher and principal in my entire long career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u49	I think this procedural proposal has told more about you than it has about me, but it will keep its word and give you a reminder. Anyone else want a procedural proposal? Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many times, when we hold meetings on the parental committees, we hear that somehow coalition Members do not hold a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that we do not give an opportunity and so on. President, as you judge today and somehow explain the rules of procedure, this is no longer going anywhere. And my procedural proposal, I'll say it at the end, and I'll tell you why. My debate was a response to the previous debate. In the previous debate before me, you did not think to warn members of the opposition not to speak more broadly about the law, but to speak again of something past and threaten and humiliate. Shalabaisers and so on. We have to listen to this all the time. When we respond, you start interpreting the rules of procedure, not saying anything that is not part of this debate, even if we are a little wider. These are double criteria. My procedural proposal is to take five minutes and consider, interrupt the session, and consider, seriously, how to proceed. Because, I'm sorry, there can't be such a limit to us, but there can be no Members again. What was said to me as a replica, and things were said that I never mentioned. How can I be replicated to something I haven't talked about? That's what's going on. And you can also look at it in a magnetogram. Really, please, let's be correct in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u51	Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, I'll answer you. Look, my first warning about the debate was to my colleague Tomić; and that was right when she replicated. I haven't even responded to your debate, I haven't commented on it, and you can look at the magnetogram. The first warning for the substantive debate was a colleague Tomić, who went a little wider in her replica. However, let me explain that the Member's replica is intended to further explain its position and not comment on your position. That's how you misinterpreted the rules of procedure here. As far as limitation is concerned, I'm not restricting anyone. I do not interfere in any debate and will not interfere with the vocabulary of an individual Member in so far as this is normal within certain borders. Each one of us has his own word treasure, and I'm not going to limit him here from where I am. As far as procedural proposals are concerned, I have already said so. Here it is very clear when we are talking about a procedure at a meeting, when we are talking about the rules of procedure, when we are commenting on some points of view. I will point out again, today the debate is very open because we have not confirmed the time stamp or confirmed the time limit in the college of individual parliamentary groups, and I invite you in good faith to apply to the debate as many times as you want. We're limited to five minutes, and then over and over again, as long as we're willing to discuss it. So these procedural proposals, which you are now going to do, are completely pointless because every one has the opportunity to talk today, as many times as he wants. Mr. Kordish, you have what? Procedural proposal on the use of the Rules of Procedure? I'm warning you and I'm asking you to be correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President. My procedural proposal is that in fact, yes, you are using the rules of procedure. Because if you do, we can continue with this session or we could continue a bit back, which is a canon of procedural proposals by the SDS, which we have just heard, was the abuse of the Institute of Procedural Procedures, there was also a substantive controversy and classical playing of the victim. That way, the President, we can ensure the integrity of this debate, and let us proceed with it. After all, any one of those who applied to the SDS procedure would have been able to turn off the microphones long ago, taking the word. The will of your correctness is that you have allowed them to make a very obvious abuse of procedural proposals, actually complete in the full three minutes. That's how this SDS terrorism ends. I will also be happy, although I do not really expect ladies and gentlemen of the SDS to apologize for their discredits, attacks, other verbal violence that we are all suffering from, not all of us SDS. I probably won't be able to see that happen, but I can wait for the normal continuation of this session and this piece of process ping-pongs to end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u53	Yeah, I'll explain it one more time. Any Member wishing to speak on a procedural proposal will, at least under my guidance, immediately receive a word and I am aware that every 3 minutes he has the opportunity to explain and develop his procedural proposal, so that I will not interrupt or take a word from either side. Now, I warn you, if there are any other abuses, I will first warn and then use any other sanctions. If we have now exhausted the procedural proposals, we will continue the debate. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Member and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to everyone on my behalf too! Indeed, this epidemic has greatly changed and reached into our lives, and also very massively, we have all met one such epidemic in the first place, with the spread of this infectious disease of covid-19 virus. It is also true that quarantine is one of the more effective measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic. This measure has been known for several hundred years. Remember, too, in the Republic of Dubrovnik, sailors had to go for — not to hold me for a word — but for five, ten days in quarantine before they could enter the city. And if we come from this and it was essentially the purpose it was very clear. [[…]] They knew that there were some diseases that the locals did not have, and in this way they wanted to prevent the introduction of infections into the city among the wider population. From this point of view, one very important fact is that in all implementations people have to participate and this makes it necessary for governments to understand, recognize them as logical, reasonable, reasonable, and also the government on the other hand must present these measures to people; that is, calm, prudent, reasonable and reasoned. Remember last year's epidemiological situation. On 23 May 2020, 341 tests were conducted, the number of hospitalized patients was 18, and four patients were in intensive care. If we remember how the government reported at the time: it reported that the end of the world, that the ugly communists had left such hospitals, were inoperable, and that people would now die massively. And if we look today, we have 440 hospitalized, of which 125 are in intensive care. Of course, when we compare these numbers and how the government communicates today, how it communicated earlier, it is clear that there is no confidence among people in government action. This is evident everywhere, as is evident in many demonstrations and people who have come in a democratic way to express their opinions, to disagree. We are all aware of what covida epidemics can cause, and if so many people are gathered in Slovenian markets as a response to how they perceive the government, then something is not wrong with people, but with the government. We can take any action, any novelty, but if the government does not have people's confidence in its actions, then no action will be effective. In addition to being somewhat misplaced in this respect, as the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out, I also miss measures to approach assistance to families in situations where they are given a quarantine decision and have no assistance, for example, in bringing food and food to their homes. How can one four-member family with two small children who live in a 60-square apartment be shut down without consequences within 60, 70 square meters of housing without consequences? You know, these are some personal hardships that this law should address and also provide for such families that it may take hours to get some air. The country should provide or determine one area where infected people can move to be airborne, so that they are not closed between four walls. This law only refers to the issue of measures to keep people incarcerated, and it does not solve the pressures they face and those that are real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I am obliged to replicate not only because of my fellow Reich, but because of the citizens and citizens who accompany us. We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases. We are not talking here today about a law that solves or solves hardships that are, of course, in other areas. We're in a lot of trouble. Anyone who thought that the epidemic only affected those who were sick or would only affect how to cure the sick, how to make sure that we had as few victims as possible and that he would sustain the health system is wrong. And he was wrong. Epidemics, pandemics, and all such infectious diseases have an impact on society, on various areas of life, and on themselves. But there's one thing I can't agree with you here. I cannot agree with you saying that people need to present this, so they will understand that they will be more respectful. Look, how can you present something if a part of politics says, not a school mask, not an application? How, then, can we expect anything from citizens if you have not yet found that certain things are necessary or have you done this on purpose? But, you know, in infestation and efficiency, we can only do much or more together. I always listen to your suggestions and appreciate if someone constructively proposes something, but just say that it is not good, it is not good, and it is not an added value! Then find better solutions. But the fact is, there were masks everywhere and it was one of the effective measures. I think this quarantine, when it's at home, I know what you're trying to say, but people have different homes. It's just that someone doesn't get in touch with other people who aren't from the same household. That really doesn't mean he doesn't have access to fresh air if he opens a window or goes to the balcony, so we don't get it wrong now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Also from this bench, honourable Members, honourable Members! I'm thrilled to hear from you. I hear more and more clever words. By the way, if anyone doesn't know, the pattern must be those who make decisions. Those guys have to do things three times harder. They must be a personal example, but pointing to others is lame. That's pathetic! And if you think this is how you're gonna get rid of the guilt, it won't work, but we'll talk about it next week, and we'll talk about it next year. Second. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and I clearly realized that at 11:22, when I stood before this counter, I could not see the amendments they had tabled because they were visible in the 11/26 system. If you don't mind, I'll make a dot here, but we can keep talking about it. Of course, today, respected and respected, the Law on Infectious Diseases needs to be changed, this is quite clear, and it is constantly changing unsystematicly that it becomes increasingly confused and probably less operational. But what is the biggest question today, respected and respected, is what to do so that there will be no 200 000 doses of needed vaccine in the refrigerators. Maybe there's less of him today, maybe there's more of him, but the amounts of the last few days were huge. And against the question of what to do within the legislation, that there will also be 30,000 individuals a day, not only 20,000, which is the wish, that is 1% of the population, but more because we are behind if you look at the tables. The law before us could bring some solutions in this area. But one of the solutions must be credibility. To think that we will force citizens and citizens into the right path is outdated and wrong. Obsolete and false, and these solutions, this law that is before us does not bring. It gives new powers to the repressive authorities, and that is exactly what everyone in this time of year is very loudly alerting to the struggle for democratic values. The times of crisis are most sensitive to reduce democratic standards, including constitutional rights, by making excuses to solve the crisis. But the world can't work in such a way that we will always say so, because it's okay for the Constitutional Court to get us back on track. We can do this already in this House. So once again, the main question to me is what to do also through this law, so that this communication, information and dialogue, which is so necessary, must be respected. It can't be that if someone doesn't agree with me that I don't want to talk to him anymore or start looking through his parents' history, what they've done, when they might even be brats in kindergarten, I forgive myself for the bad words. This is not really a respectful dialogue. A respectful dialogue is to listen, even if it tells you information that may be funny from the point of view of my knowledge, to provide counter-information and then again and again. This is the only way to build trust, not by means of coercive means. After all, this law should also regulate what upsets people. Have you read today that in Germany a server at a nursing home receives the same amount of supplement as a doctor of science at a university clinic? Let's say Charité in Berlin, because there's a thousand last year, a thousand 500 euros. I know that some things are a matter of collective bargaining, but I know that by law, even so, things can be adjusted, because this will not be the last epidemic we have, but the wish must be present. If such anomalies were eliminated, believe me, it would be a slow process that would take a very long time to restore people's trust. And this Law on Infectious Diseases is necessary. But please kindly, not by every law to bring a new enforcer or an existing one, although I am aware of the importance of the quarantine - but to deepen the existing one. I won't speak more in person, even though I still have a hundred thoughts that might need to be said. But I agree with this: let us brush our teeth and, at this point, do all we can to continue this positive trend that has begun, and, in particular, let us humbly ask those who have decided not to be vaccinated, let us reconsider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Mag. Vindisar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u60	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Just a few answers. Look, at least I just went through-- I can't find any repressive action. So, what's written in here by these repressive authorities, the Minister of Health probably isn't. The Minister of Health may order quarantine, and may also specify diseases for which quarantine will be required, but it is certainly necessary to distinguish between the epidemic and other potentially highly contagious diseases. This does not mean that quarantine will always be determined only at the time of the epidemic. So there are no other repressions, but what is in this novel is primarily the desire to be quarantined. As a result, provisions, both by statements, by collecting data and by empowering the Health Inspectorate in the end, can also be made available to carry out this work. I don't understand the Health Inspectorate as a repressive body, but as a body that actually controls the agreed laws. And next up, the extras for risk work with covid patients really don't belong in this law, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u61	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] The replica has a mag. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u62	Thank you. The Law on Infectious Diseases should aim to essentially look at infectious diseases comprehensively, from all aspects, because if it does not have this objective, then we have this fragmentation, which we both have in Slovenia, that if you are doing one thing, you should know 125 laws, right. And working with infectious diseases obviously means a lot of risk if someone can pay for this account also, I don't know, a thousand, 2,000, 20,000 euros a month. Therefore, it would be good and believe me that it would be well received in the public eye and would return some small amount of trust if it were easy in this law to decide to do so in fact so that the server, which is always possible to contact patients, which is such an infectious, contagious risk, in a comparable position as someone who has a very difficult title – probably, by the way. If they did it in Germany, yes, why not apply some good practice there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u63	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, um Okay, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, a replica of the previous debate. [[…]] Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u64	I really only have a short replica I mean, really, I think it's too much to say that we've brought a new enforcer into the National Assembly and that we won't bring another one next time. [[…]] Quarantine has been known since, I don't know, 1300, I think there's been quarantines in the fight somewhere, 1370. But this is not the only way, but it is certainly an important way to control an infectious disease so that it does not spread. I think it's also very important to stop her in time, isn't it? Not since we're counting a thousand, 2,000 infected, but even when there's even a chance that we're in trouble, and the quarantine is definitely effective in that way. I really wouldn't take that as a means of perpetuation. People will be compensated in the event of quarantine and not least, I believe that people themselves will not have quarantine problems if they know that this is good for them and for the environment. I don't think of myself as risking people's health, taking it in writing and walking around. I don't think people are going to take it and take it so negatively, if, of course, it's not part of a policy that wants to take things as repressive, violent and so on, but then, of course, people are confused. But this is an epidemiological measure, and we can't take it as such right now, but it's completely negative. I believe it limits some things, but, on the other hand, it also brings positive aspects. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so we are now opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got three contestants back. The first one gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u66	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for the floor. Very nice greetings to all, especially to the guest, the State Secretary of Mags. Vindisar! I hope you won't be surprised. I'll stick to the strict theme of the agenda. We're talking about a new law on infectious diseases. It must be the most important law that speaks of an epidemic or pandemic. It's remarkable. It's extremely important. For example, on the basis of this law, more precisely, on the basis of Article 7, its fourth paragraph of the Government, I stress that the Government declares an epidemic if it is actually in the entire area of the country. I'm not going to be Piccolo, but the previous government did not adopt a decree declaring the epidemic on 11 March last year in the right way. It was just an order signed by Minister Šabeder. But I'm not a lawyer, but I know what to write. Thus, in Slovenia, the epidemics were legally undeclared, but people were not looking at legal formalities because they were smart because we were all afraid. People all over the world died horribly and so on. And the healthy public, the vast majority of Slovenia, the vast majority, does not understand this disease covid-19 – this epidemic, wearing masks, measures, protective, quarantine – as political issues. Of course, one part understands wearing masks as a political issue. Whoever wears the mask is behind the government, who doesn't wear the mask, who is against the government. And one more thing: if an epidemic of the disease is declared, the name, address or whatever disease is listed, not SARS-COV-2. SARS-COV-2 is not a disease, but let's leave it. So, we had a case where the epidemic wasn't formally declared and then they left. Now, specifically, what is this novel? Yes, of course, speaking of infectious diseases, sumarum sumarum is nothing good. If we are talking about quarantine, about a person having to go to a hospital - of course, he is somehow deprived of his freedom. When you're sick, you're locked in a hospital room if you're on a ventilator -- is that freedom? And so on and so forth. These are very serious matters, and I think we need to approach this with a sound mind to deal with quarantine. We know what isolation is and so on and so forth. What are the main solutions now? However, in one minute, I will tell citizens that this law essentially stipulates that the National Institute for Public Health or the police may send a person who is at risk of being exposed to infection due to high-risk contact with an infected person or who comes from a high-risk area with an infection to a quarantined home, prevents a person from moving outside the residence address and restricts contact with other persons who do not live at the same address for the longest period of incubation. The measure shall apply in the case of communicable diseases or infection identified by the National Institute for Public Health in the risk assessment. The quarantine at home may also be carried out without the oral referral of the NEJZ or the police, as provided for by law. And now specifically to these amendments, if you come too late. Of course, it is a difficult text, it went through the government and are fully respected the recommendations of the Law-Legal Service, these institutions. And one more thing, and I'm closing it. At the time when we took over the government, it was declared legally irregular, an epidemic, but we had nothing to take into our hands. I'm going to disappoint you. I'm not going to talk about equipment. I will talk about the National Plan for Protection and Rescue when an epidemic or pandemic of infectious disease occurs in humans. This plan was not functional, it was not usable. After that, we made every effort, and under the direction of the Ministry of Defence, we actually made a new state plan. The country is a serious company. Each company must have such plans and other plans. And then it was only last July that we adopted a new version of this state plan. We support this novel and, of course, amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. So, the epidemic that hit us, no one expected this epidemic, or we could only read about it in science fiction. What happened to us hurt us all. It changed our lives, but the worst has changed lives for those who have become very ill or for those who have lost their loved ones or friends in this epidemic. In Slovenia we faced a problem in homes for older people for two reasons. The first reason was that we have homes for the elderly, who are unadapted, badly built, and because we lack them and because the residents are too often inhabited. The second reason is that we have, I think, the seventh oldest population in the world. So the mortality rate was already higher because of these two facts. It is necessary to thank both doctors and nurses and all medical personnel who have cared for, assisted, worked, as well as all those in support services, both in nursing homes, in hospitals, and in schools. Now, the measures hurt everything, some more, some less. But we have been dealing with an artificial dilemma imposed on us by the opposition with a speech on rights. Justice is greater than those who go to shops and smaller ones who can't attend events. So it is essential to stress that we all had to reduce our rights, whether it be a limited movement or a wearing mask that we do not like, but we do. It's about simply reducing the number of contacts. If you're less moving, you meet fewer people, if you meet fewer people, there's less chance of getting infected, or you're infecting someone else. It's just that. If everyone were to stick to the measures as intended, it would be over in three weeks of the epidemic. Why didn't I get sick? Why? Maybe even because of the immune system, especially because I've been following measures. Because I didn't actually hang out like I did in the instructions and recommendations. Only official and only essential contacts. What's even worse is that we can laugh on different social networks, but I don't know if we should cry over this superstition; that is, those who oppose vaccination or even testing. Last time my teacher friend told me that her colleague was avoiding her because she was vaccinated, that she was an alien. I couldn't believe my ears, and I said, "And that's the teacher!" A friend left her job because she didn't want to be tested because she said something was going in with her thumb. Look, there's a lot of damage done with all this. So the balance of measures is what needs to be weighed between rights limits and security and health. Slovenia is and will remain one of those with the most balanced measures. That's what the latest data showed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u70	Thank you. Hello, Mr. Vice President, between us! Make sure it's clear right away. I also said in the opening presentation. I am fully aware and support, and I know that quarantine is an important measure. And we didn't figure that out this year. We didn't figure that out a year ago. We have seen this for centuries; in modern medicine and older medicine. Quarantine is an important measure. That's not what we're talking about today. We need to understand that. Nor do we discuss how to implement or not. By the way, now if you listen to experts - what do they say? Get out! Go outside, please, from indoors, because closed rooms are really dangerous. You remember what we talked about two weeks ago? In fact, people forget that if a sick person comes into a locked room and leaves him, in a closed space, aerosols can be in the air and are dangerous for a new person who comes into the room for hours. And this mask we have doesn't help. This mask doesn't help. These are if we follow the reports of the World Health Organization – by the way, a few days ago they were adjusted again, they are heading in the right direction – but they are going in this direction. [[…]] And they warned last July how dangerous it is if everything is based on the idea of a drip infection and then people really believe that if they have a mask like most of us now - that someone has a two, I don't see, but I look around. This mask just doesn't protect us enough. A few protect us. I can't find two, but it's true that I see a little worse. I see Comrade Pogačnik has it. All right, you got it! I respect that. So we're not talking whether the quarantine is yes or no. Quarantine; yes, it is necessary. What we're talking about today is something else. And that is whether the record, as it was, is essentially appropriate and is so appropriate that he will undergo a stress test at the Constitutional Court. Since there are two rights: one is the common right to infect the disease, it is our duty to do everything we can to prevent the disease from spreading and the constitutional right to freedom of movement. Therefore, this proportionality, in which some others speak so much, is important. In our opinion, as you wrote down, indeed, I must say, 11.26 we have received and read your amendments. Do you know what the problem is? These amendments are designed to create our own opinions. Of course, there is no way that we could see at this time, because we do not see the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to these amendments and whether to resolve the allegations that the likelihood that up to three articles of the Constitution are in fact your proposal is, in a mild sense, very controversial. So today we're not talking quarantine yes or quarantine no. But whether it is that you have quarantined from very clearly-written definitions in such a way that it can be proclaimed and used even when there is no epidemic, in a way that, if I understand what is written here, the disease is defined on a proposal – when I say Mr Krek, of course, I mean the institution that represents it, but I am a little more embodying this institution – either the health minister, or the President of the Government or the Government as a whole, because they are in the background of the restriction. Here the possibility of disproportionateity is increasing, rapidly increasing. That's what we're talking about. Why is this so important? In fact, today, if we look at a year ago or more ago, when there was a strong force, things that might not be problems in this form of epidemic are settled immediately. This force is gone today. Today is the time to take really thoughtful measures as much as possible in agreement within policy, and this is less important because perhaps if you don't remember, we have had a serious debate on one of the committees concerning the anti-vaccination movement. [[…]] And I don't know if you remember the analysis of your ministry when it found out that, say, more than half the parents don't want to vaccinate children anymore, but they do, because it's still mandatory. And it's a good thing they're vaccinated, by the way. But what did they find? They found out why resistance is emerging, and this is not a matter of politics, and they found something else, please step away from politics, let the profession communicate, because it is believed by professionals, doctors and doctors and then other health personnel. That we're bartering among ourselves today, who promotes something more or less, is absolutely unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u72	Thank you very much. And the replica also explains, because I think it's important for the debate alone. The amendments were tabled and indeed, I will not say that they were filed early, but that they were in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And when the course of such a meeting and amendments are tabled, we never have an opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. This is usually the case when laws are passed. However, I can tell you, and this also says in the explanations that the amendments were prepared on the subject of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and follow the opinion. Now of course you can say that you do not believe this, but the fact is that there has been an additional work done here in the sense of including all those essential comments that have been made, precisely in this desire to make the matter stand and, on the other hand, that it is effective and that we reach a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Vindisar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I just want to re-emphasize. In Article 19, we expanded the definition of quarantine and when it can be announced. Thus, it can be declared when persons have been in contact with the disease agent, the viral haemorrhagic fever, three are listed, or the causes of another communicable disease for which the Minister responsible for Health has been designated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 7, of this Act. This is the first option whether, on the basis of the Institute for the Protection of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, it has decided that the risk of rapid spread of infection to a particular infectious disease, which poses a risk to health, requires such a measure. So, once again, I am trying to explain that the profession, the Institute for Health Protection, the one that defines that the cause of the disease, the viral hemorrhagic fever, may be such that it could cause public health risks. It is said that both the Minister and then the Government, at the initiative of the National Institute for Public Health, can define this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic, who's gone. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Okay, I'll open another application. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one has the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, all present, Secretary of State! Today's debate at this 1st point, which is open, is ongoing when we talk about the law and the additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, we are actually talking about a dilemma: freedom or security. Both matters are highly placed as values, especially freedom in our constitution, and therefore we are kind of afraid of the Constitutional Court, what they will say about these measures when we take them and when they are before us to take them. But this dilemma has been here for centuries: freedom or security. This dilemma was established 400 years ago by English philosopher Thomas Hobbes. Freedom or security. He believed that freedom was a natural state, but it was limited to the freedom of another. So Hobbes concludes that freedom is only possible when people are not around too much. But when there are many people, the state of freedom of all turns essentially into a state of war against everyone. So Hobbes then, we all know that, offered as a counterweight a social agreement, just like we now have a constitution and so on. So, the state takes individual freedom and introduces individual security. So the authorities take control of life and death. Only she can send an individual to war, she uses the death penalty too, thank God not, and she also saves from death, which is now. And that's what we're talking about. But this creates a conceptual structure that says that the country is just a space of security, not freedom. When we say only a place of security, we say that the country is also a place of non-freedom. This thought came into the world at that time and rose in Galileo’s time, when the mechanical view of the world prevailed, because it looked upon an individual as the entrapment of some forces and that somehow he had no consciousness, he had no will and that the community was merely a body mechanic, a sum total, meaning that society and consciousness did not exist then. But our government continued to say distance. So, people, she put us in physical treatment. So that brought us back to the time when we said when they thought that society was not, that there was no policy, that human relations were just mechanical. So we can only respond to a problem mechanically — distance, masks, gloves, changing, stopping physical movement, stay at home. It's a return to those times. However, a few hundred years from enlightenment went into nothing, when enlightenment brought on the surface, that man is a conscious being, reasonable, capable of acting, adaptable, able to decide for himself that he has his will and that he is also a rational being. No! No! We're back in time: to punish, strike across the board. So we no longer recognize man, we no longer recognize the Slovenian as a responsible being, a conscious being who is capable of conscious judgment, of using his will, and also of taking responsibility for his life or also for his health and illness. Although it is clear to stay at home between 21st and 6th hours, I am talking about the measure, it had no measurable effect, we have maintained this measure for almost half a year. Only when we were using gloves did we do the right thing and we got rid of it. Not everyone's against everything, not everyone. We have created man as if each other is a mortal enemy because of this virus and we have established this mechanical attitude towards man, his consciousness, and the responsibility of the Slovenian has been forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u78	Yes, thank you for your word. Today, this debate is quite a scrupulous one for the topic we are dealing with. In fact, we all deal with just how this is written in the law, not how this is done in practice and who is doing it. Each serious textbook on political science says that only one third of the effect of what is stated in the law and two thirds are dependent on who does it and in what way. In particular, there are now extremely many words about quarantine, all possible measures linked to the term quarantine. However, I must remind you that this measure also works if someone is responsible and realistically implementing it. Only a day passed since all the world’s newspapers published a brilliant conclusion that a group of scientists who researched found that the SARS pandemic or the Coronavirus could be prevented. That's genius! I wrote this 14 months ago, and a year two months ago you can go look at my Facebook I wrote that this pandemic was a story of unconsciousness and irresponsibility because those who should act did not act. And who should act? In the first place, China, which knew exactly what it was dealing with, put this virus, I say, responsiblely, on purpose, into the world. If they wanted to prevent this, they would have introduced a quarantine, they would have prevented travel for China's new year last year; when all Chinese gathered traditionally in China and then went back to the world. They introduced quarantines and prevented travel one week after the end of China's new year, when all the Chinese who came back to China had already travelled around the world and then scattered it across all the continents, the pandemic. And of course, governments. Even then, Slovenian. Go look, 26th, for example, I know, on January 26th, I tweeted and warned publicly, as I had said here before, and where else, why not the restriction of travel at the European level, in Slovenia. Why not introduce quarantine, why not introduce restrictive measures? Here the government was playing a fool — the then government of Marjan Sarca and those in that coalition — look at your threshold. [[…]] And especially the party on which this government was dependent has the most to say today, this is the Left. On the other hand, the European institutions which are completely cancelled are not. The European institutions did not respond at all to all the calls I sent. If I were a European Member, it would probably be different, at least we could answer. This government has done nothing here, and the pandemic has moved on. But not only did this government, nor did it prepare Italy, nor did it prepare anything. Ask yourself why and who should be responsible for this. Indeed, this pandemic could be prevented, yes, but not by the end of this group of scientists, in sayings that more money should therefore be devoted to the WHO. Yeah, what the hell! WHO has completely canceled because it depends on the Chinese, and they were trying to sweep the matter under the carpet, and they had their own goals. They'll be the only one who'll make a profit out of it. From the fact that no quarantines were introduced. All the money the whole world went to lockdown is now pouring into China. They come back and at a price buy businesses anywhere in the world. Who's the winner of the 3rd World War fighting biological weapons? The answer is clear; the one most unconscious. In this case, write your own answer, and it is the responsibility of those who did not act when they should. This is why the law that is before us today is only the act of post-festum, but it is certainly not the last pandemic, for believe it, this was also a test. That's what's gonna happen. Too much. Too much. And then, in the end, apparently, those who triggered the case were rewarded instead of being punished. At least for the moment, everything shows that it will be so, which means that the law must be adopted and I support and support the amendments. Above all, I would recommend a lot of wisdom when it comes to elections, and that no left government will ever be elected again to make a fool of itself when the next pandemic will be in front of the door, when someone, in this case, was writing why no quarantine will be introduced, why not limit travel through Slovenia, but as a mockery, buses with passengers will not be believed exactly from Wuhan, who was then the center of the infection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. At first, I didn't mean to come by, because in my position, I said that we would support this marriage in the SMC. The amendments that are ready also follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and provide more clearly certain provisions, but now that I have been listening to this debate for a few hours, as far as everything else is concerned and this law is concerned, I have to respond on my own. This virus, and as a result of this epidemic, the pandemic, was not invented by John Janš and not by this government. And some of you all of a sudden want to see this virus, this epidemic, as political. The measures we have in Slovenia are comparable to those with which we otherwise like to compare ourselves, both with Austria, Germany and others. So we do not have in Slovenia some drastic, much stricter measures than other countries. But, as we say, today we accept this law that defines quarantine at home. In the opposition, however, you list everything that has happened in the last year, of course you will find just the same negative things, just the kind of slips that have happened to someone who works night and day. The terms of forgiveness have also been mentioned, and those companies that will forgive will certainly forgive workers more than three months after receiving these subsidies, in our particular case, in Ormož, it will be 9 months, so that even if this three-month period were taken into account, nothing would help. Then, of course, today and for the last month, we hear about places in parliamentary bodies, but in order for these cities to be divided, we need to talk. Now, if the talks only started last week, then it's hard to determine. But I would like to remind you of something, even when the first two MPs left the SMC, we covered the committees for two months before they split. At that time, no one bothered to do so! Didn't the important Members leave? Why didn't anyone call back then? And I know that for two months I have replaced all those committees and all the other Members that it was exactly the same as it is now. Now we've been listening to one and the same thing on every committee for a month. But no one asks why we have the President of the National Assembly from the opposition? But we hear that on every committee, regardless of the subject. Nominal amounts, if I had personally said, of course, to be fairer, I would have given them all the same, but no one in any PKP mentioned them or suggested them, not even in the opposition. That supplement, which most people have been struggling with, which has been established by the collective agreement for how many years and is also set as a percentage, cannot be changed by us. And no repressive measure has been added to this law. The Secretary of State has already said that. Everything else you listed today, not the actual quarantine at home, which is more clearly defined by this terminology; therefore, it is more clearly determined to be respected. Because only an early and consistent quarantine can stop the spread of this virus. And with all the people I talked to who had been infected — what was the hardest for them? The hardest thing for them was that they were worried about each other, I'd say our own way, by the way. Thus, they were most disturbed by whom they had infected themselves and that none of them would be very ill or even likely to die. That was the worst thing I've ever talked to. Therefore, it is essential that the quarantine is indeed as clearly defined as possible and that it is consistently respected. As I say, I would like to talk only about it, but I had to respond because I have been listening for three hours now to everything else, not what we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. However, I will focus on the amendments you have proposed, I will say, I will also talk about this or open the debate or I have a question for the Secretary of State. Look, even in this amendment, and even before that, it was a problem when you talk when you list what diseases are involved. Then it is added “or causes and other infectious diseases”. Now I have a personal problem because I know you're an expert in medical or medical matters. You know there's still a large number of these infectious diseases. So, we're already in one rift here because I think it would be right that these infectious diseases, at least those known, are already defined. However, if not known, they may be later in this law or may be amended or added. Here I think there is a big problem or problem, because then I can come out casually and I will speak casually because I want to be constructive, to abuse on such or different situations and on data and also on the treatment itself and on these things. Then another matter, which is also in the amendment you tabled, I think it was well-intentioned, but you did not foresee this with regard to the service of this quarantine decision. So now, if you send an e-mail to someone, unfortunately in Slovenia still a lot of Slovenes and Slovenes do not use this digital signature or electronic signature and there can be a problem with these deadlines that you then define, 24 hours and these things. So I'll get it by e-mail. If I don't have a printer, it's actually complicated, as you said at home, it's purely technical. Here I think that things needed to be thought through and also worked out, and something else to change or add. Then the next thing that's problematic again from my point of view is that it's an emergency procedure again. I know, because I know, these are things that are really urgent right now, I will say, questionable or right now that we are talking about them, that we are discussing them, that they are also being debated in an argument of power, not by an argument of power, but by the power of argument. I think it would be right to open any public debate on this subject, because I think there would also be a lot of professional stakeholders who would still be there or who would be further exposed. Even as I understand from this proposal that this is essentially a closed group that has proposed the law, it is said at the Ministry of Health, if I understand correctly, that you did not involve external stakeholders. Oh, okay, you'll explain. From this point of view, I am interested in how these infectious diseases will be defined or how they will be treated or treated. However, if you are thinking in this direction that you will rightfully make a list of these infectious diseases, which you expect to fall into this context or which you have on some basis in my own. I think that this will open up a lot of legal and legislative problems, but if you want constitutional problems regarding the protection of personal data, including those of communicable diseases, and that there would not be discrimination at this level when we are talking about infectious diseases or diseases in general. I think it's right to talk about this in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Maybe just a quick answer. The current Law on Infectious Diseases in Article 8 lists 64 diseases, both Slovenian and Latin, so these are not all listed. Now, if you put 64 in this early 19th article, it would be too much for me. It's damaged. Why the urgency of the procedure? See, we are meeting with ever-increasing strains, and I can say that the third wave that the Republic of Slovenia survived, I hope that now we can say that it has survived, because the data is really encouraging, has caused a new strain called the British strain. All data show that as the proportion of this strain rises in our area, there are problems with the increase in the number of hospitalisations and, above all, with a marked increase in hospitalisation and intensive therapy. If, in the second wave, the share of the standard strain in intensive therapy was some 17%, it has now approached even 25% from time to time. And that is why we really need the opportunity to have a more effective quarantine as soon as possible, so that we can also have control. Question three. Yes, this statement can, in principle, be obtained by a person if the person in advance meets the information solution and then does not want to take over, but is now the solution in the law that this will then be issued within 24 hours. Again, why so short a hand? Because of the fact that a person really confirms it, it's what she gets and stays at this location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Replica. Here you go, Member. Replica, if you want? [[Yeah.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u86	Mr. Secretary of State, if you just explain this to me when you're talking about this 24-hour thing, is it going to be issued by a health inspector or will the police deliver it? Because then it also comes into conflict with the Penal Code and all that stuff. If I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u87	Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u88	If you can. If a person does not have an electronic address, the NIJ shall forward a statement of quarantine at home to a legal or natural person engaged in the service of documents in physical form as his or her activity carrying out a personal service within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For me, life is the greatest value we can overcome. I believe and hope that we can all be united in this esteemed hall. I'd like to speak briefly and tell you two clear facts. The first fact, mentioned in the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which is under urgent procedure, nowhere and never mentions any repression. This has already been mentioned by a number of discussers and, more than once today, by the Secretary of State. So I wonder if the opposition is reading the same material. Second fact. The amendments that have been tabled have been tabled in accordance with the rules that exist for this purpose. They have been put in the right and the right way and the amendments have been tried and prepared in accordance with the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service. I don't think we can deny it here either. Because of these two facts, I will support all amendments to the coalition, as well as the proposal of the Law on Infectious Diseases. I would, however, have listened very carefully to the predecessor who presided over this meeting, Vice-President, and I am very much of the opinion that we do not make replicas and procedural proposals during the debate, and that somehow we interrupt the red thread of the debate, and I have left this last point for the end. I enjoy reading and learning about historical facts, and I am very interested in historical data, and I am very interested in historical breakthroughs. But it was mainly because of those young, children and young and young people, but especially those who save the crossword puzzles and listen to us here, and because of accuracy and efficiency, I would like to say just that, and because we are now in the National Assembly, I would just like to make some adjustments. The word parliament does not come from the Italian root of the word “parlare”, which means talking, but comes from the French root of the word “parler”, which also means talking, so that those who save crosswords will know exactly that information. Thank you very much for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. I will allow myself a little "parlare" here in Parliament. In short, look, first of all, I'm listening here to all these different claims that I just have to answer, but I didn't think so. What is repression? If you put people in quarantine on the basis of 64 defined infectious diseases, because you're ordered by an institution, it's called restricting freedom. Restricting freedom on behalf of alleged security on the basis of a list, as I have previously heard from the secretary, 64 is even options on which someone can quarantine you at home. What's more than repression? Of course it is repression, of course it is the restriction of civil liberties and rights! And here you are under the government of Janez Janša extremely creative since we have this epidemic, but you are significantly less creative and effective when it comes to the safety of people against infection. Because if you were really concerned about the safety of people against infection, then workers would have been given 100 percent compensation long ago at the time of quarantine, and people who are, say, on these lowest wages would not, even though they have symptoms, plunge into work in any way because they are afraid for their own survival, because 80% of the settlement of their wages is not enough to survive. It's called taking care of safety, but not that large establishments are open, where infections are transmitted here and there. Schools were closed for the longest time, and yet we had lockdowns, and we were not allowed to pass through the congregations. [[…]] In short, it's amazing what we've had, but we've been in the middle of a good time. The world's peaks. And now you are about to explain to us how to introduce a permanent quarantine institute, it is said, even if there is no epidemic being declared, and on the basis of what I have correctly understood by the Secretary of State, please complete me, if possible, with 64 communicable diseases. So if someone at NIZ remembers that I have something, I don't know, contagious cold, look at me, it'll be easy to -- I'm doing this perfectly right now -- it'll be easy to get a quarantine, because you'll make it up. I'm just wondering who's gonna give it to me if I don't have access to the e-mail. That's what my colleague clearly asked, but he didn't get an answer. Is the police here to assist? And we want a clear answer, not some strange answer you had previously answered, it was not understandable. [[…]] Don't tell me that you order a citizen or a citizen to be quarantined at any time, even outside of time, at home on the basis of 64 possible infectious diseases, that this is not a violation of civil rights and a restriction of freedoms. Please! You can make it up when you're in power. If someone doesn't suit you, you can put him in quarantine for a while. Don't fuck with me. That's what we're talking about. Which country, please state to me, has invented a permanent institute of such quarantine as you are now proposing. Outside of the epidemic. I mean, you act like we're in a permanent state of war and that we're not permanently aware of how much danger and so on. In short, look, when there's an epidemic, there's an epidemic, we understand, even though we don't understand everything there, because you've gone too far. When there's no epidemic, I'm sorry. This is the first time I've seen anything like it, and tell me the countries that do it that way. I would really like to hear what kind of democratic society such a precedent is taking place. So once again, I ask for a clear answer: Who specifically gives this command to a person, giving him the authority to be quarantined? Who if this man can't read it by e-mail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I have mentioned 64 diseases that are defined in Section 8 of the Infectious Diseases Act. There is no SARS-COV-2 virus among them, since we probably know this virus since December 2020, but it is clear that this virus has probably been known for several months before, and information on this has actually been hidden. We're talking about the possibility that in the future there will be another cause that we won't have between these 64s. SARS-COV-2 is a nice case. And when the profession assesses that this is a new cause, quarantine may also be imposed. Then it's just another question. Statement of quarantine at home “legal or natural person who performs the service of documents in physical form as his activity”. It is said that a legal or natural person who in the Republic of Slovenia performs the service of documents in physical form as his activity within 24 hours. This could be mail or anything, again. But this is probably not the key data right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u96	President, thank you very much for your word. Look, since the amendments really came at the last minute, I'm just going through them thoroughly, at least I'm doing it myself. And here you also have in Article 4, where you are talking about this information solution referred to in the first paragraph of the new Article 19b, of course I am talking about this application. As far as I understand, even quarantine decisions should be sent automatically — whether I may have misunderstood something from this amendment or article — to persons who, through this application, will be perceived as persons who have had a risky contact with another certain person who has already become ill in this case. Who's going to check this out, given that there's been such a huge problem with this app lately? Unfortunately, there was too little interest in this app. I think a few legal and also digital questions are being asked in this direction. So it can happen that I have this app or that I have an app, I go around the city, it's a public-risk contact, okay; but then it can happen that I get an automatic issued or quarantine decision. I'm coming home, like I already get in the mail box, and I have a quarantine decision. I don't know if it's okay. Please let the Secretary of State explain this to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Windishar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Article 4 clearly states that “the information solution referred to in Article 19b of the Law of the Institute for the Protection of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Ministry responsible for Public Administration, as contractual processors on the eGovernment portal, shall be established within 15 days of the entry into force of this Act”. That's paragraph one. Second paragraph. “Before the establishment of the information solution referred to in Article 19b of this Law, a person who has been informed that he has been in high risk contact directly from an infected person or via a mobile application to remain healthy under Article 46 of the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of COVID-19 may obtain evidence of the exercise of the right to pay or other rights” and so on. So it is only at this time that this solution is offered. We are looking for an opportunity to inform procedures as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u99	Thank you very much. [[Advertising from the hall]] Here you go, the replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Only in an additional explanation or answer to colleague Sukič because she is misleading the public and I think she knows she is misleading the public. Quarantine as such is not defined or will now be defined definitively, as is the case elsewhere in Slovenia. Virtually all neighbouring countries have this matter regulated precisely because it is important to protect and protect people from communicable diseases. And now just listen to how Austria's arrangement is. For the purpose of preventing the spread of communicable diseases, “persons who have been infected or have become ill with an infectious disease and persons suspected of being sick or carriers of a disease are lonely and limited by contact with the outside world.” [[advertising from the hall]] It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u101	Madam Ambassador, please don't take your word for it. He's got three minutes. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u102	“The criteria of an infected person or potentially infected person or carrier of an infectious disease shall be established and updated by the competent health ministry.” Just like it's gonna be with us. They are doing the same, and no measure taken by Slovenia is foreign to other countries. Even less, they had a much sharper one. In some countries children should not have even looked out for months.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 1. We move on to Articles 2, 3 and 4. The amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and the Modern Centre Party to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 3 and 4 and we will therefore discuss the amendments to this Article together. I am putting to the debate Articles 2, 3 and 4 and the amendments of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on this article. We're moving on to Article 3a. I am putting to the debate Article 3a and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENTS IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government who is coming, Minister Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u104	Good afternoon. Perfect timing, I see. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 8 April this year. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on State Administration, a maximum of two State Secretaries or State Secretaries may be appointed in the Ministry of Finance and four may be appointed in the Ministry of Finance. The proposal for a law before you provides that at the Ministry of Health, instead of a maximum of two, no more than three state secretaries may be appointed. [[Cough]] I'm sorry, I'm not really in shape, obviously. So the epidemic has revealed a number of weaknesses in the health system and has highlighted the urgently needed reform. We have been reminded of this for many years by the European Union. In order to achieve the objectives set, it is necessary to strengthen the Ministry of Health, including by the number of State Secretaries or State Secretaries in the Ministry. The Ministry of Health has been staff-fed for a long time. It has recently strengthened with additional, urgently needed staff, at the level of individual sectors and services, and reinforcements at management level are also needed. The envisaged reforms are structural in nature and constitute such permanent changes and therefore there is also a need for an additional State Secretary of a permanent nature. The Ministry of Public Administration has taken over the administration of information and communication systems of the state administration in accordance with the new Law on State Administration of 2014. Information communication systems for the areas of defence, protection against natural and other disasters, police, intelligence and security activities, external affairs, prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, and payment traffic management for budgetary users have been excluded, due to the nature of the work areas of individual authorities and for security reasons. Today, we propose that the internal information system of the Ministry of Home Affairs be excluded from the centralisation of informatics in the state administration. Between December 2014 and March this year, the internal information systems of the Ministry of the Interior and the police are intertwined process and data, as they carry out all support tasks for the functioning of the police. The internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior shall cover the local information network, computer and server equipment necessary for the functioning of the local information system and the network equipment necessary for the functioning of the local information system. The data collected, processed and stored in the internal information systems of the Ministry with both bodies in its composition, i.e. the police, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, are such that, in order to ensure an adequate high level of security, they are not suitable for the transfer to the common information of infrastructure managed by the Ministry of Public Administration. The internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior, for the above reasons, is also not suitable for remote management. Due to the interconnectivity of processes, it is also impossible to separate systems into an internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior with a lower level of security and an information system of the police. In addition to the police area, the Ministry of the Interior also carries out tasks in the field of public security, administrative internal affairs and migration, since in the central information system, individual national information systems, such as eUPP applications for the management of procedures, security checks, TDRO, thus a secret state computer cloud, an information system of administrative internal affairs containing 16 state-owned registers and applications. This is the case in most cases for services shared by several national authorities, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for their development and upgrading, and only the functioning of the information infrastructure is in the management of the Ministry of Public Administration. These state-of-the-art registers and systems remain in the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and are hosting information and communication systems of the state administration, which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration. This continues to enable their wider use, i.e. all users at national level. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 45th emergency meeting on 10 May 2021, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration submitted by the Government to the Assembly in question. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration, Mrs Urška Ban, stressed that three State secretaries at the Ministry of Health would now be able to provide a permanent solution and to propose the exclusion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs information system from the centralisation of information technology in the state administration, because it has proved that this internal information system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the police are becoming too intertwined and data is therefore a matter of data protection. In particular, the debate highlighted the need to limit the number of State secretaries so that it would probably be better to settle this than systemic, but the key argument put forward by the chairman of the committee was that there were new, entirely different challenges, personal situations and so, of course, at the time of the adoption of the basic law, there was no way to foresee it. Therefore, the proposal before us is justified and justified. At the same time, support was expressed for Minister Poklukar and his co-workers for the excellent work done during his ministry and his desire to do so even more successfully with the new Secretary of State. Since the amendments were not tabled, the Committee then voted on all articles of the law or the whole text at the same time and voted by 11 votes to 3 in favour. Thus, the draft law was adopted for the Second Session of the National Assembly at the meeting of the competent working body and the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u108	Your Honor! It's day 49 today. 49th day since the minority coalition with supporters blocks the full functioning of the opposition in the working bodies of the National Assembly. And the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are perfectly clear. The size of the individual parliamentary group and the relationship between members of the coalition and the opposition should be taken into account in the distribution of jobs in the working bodies. All clear. In practice, of course, this is not because this minority coalition, together with supporters, literally takes cities that do not belong to it. As a result, the legitimacy of decision-making is questionable not only in the working bodies but in the overall legislative process. And that is why this protest of the List of Marjan Šarc is because we want to achieve an end to this unconstitutional situation. While we are alone in this protest in this way, we insist, because we are convinced that we are doing the right thing because we are convinced that the goal is more important and that the objective is to protect democracy and its value. Otherwise, with regard to the amendments to the Law on State Administration, we note that the issue of the number of State secretaries in the ministries is now in almost every mandate, and it is of course interesting that when you are a party to the SDS, you oppose the expansion of the secretaries' seats when you are in power and you propose it. However, we understand the current situation in the List of Marjan Šarc and know what challenges the Ministry of Health is facing. The proposed exemption of the information system of the Ministry of the Interior from centralised information technology in the state administration seems reasonable. Experience from the time that we led the department of public administration and internal affairs in the List of Marjan Šarc shows that this makes sense for several reasons, mainly because of the greater information resilience of the internal security system of the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, in order to ensure greater information security. However, we do have some reservations in this regard in the List of Marjan Šarc. In the Ministry of the Interior, the field of information technology is covered by two services; one in administrative work, the other in police. And at the time of this government, we are witnessed by the Minister of the Interior to the politicisation of the police and their appetites after supervision in all areas. Therefore, due to the practice and action of the Minister of Interior, it may well be that after the decentralisation of the two services, appetites or the opening up of control of the police's IT work, which is much stronger in human and financial terms, appear on the civil or administrative part of the Ministry. As a result, we will be able to witness in the future, although we hope not, possible political abuses, such as the exercise of police control over employees at the Ministry of the Interior, or in the ministry itself, or in individual police procedures. This is certainly an extremely important decision within the internal security system, which requires mainly professional reflection and an organisation plan, modernisation of the management and management of the internal affairs information system. Otherwise, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we will continue to seek to eliminate the unconstitutional situation in the National Assembly by obstructing our working bodies. This does not mean that we will make the work of the government of Janez Janša easier in the future, as it has been so far. On the contrary, we'll look at her even more under her fingernails.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats understand that any government is trying to organise its work by successfully achieving its pre-election goals, as well as objectives that go beyond one government. Therefore, from this point of view, the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration is not even disputed and in some ways you have difficulty opposing it. However, one year before the regular national elections, perhaps early, we ask ourselves whether it is the right time for a change in work when the Government is seeking to legislate the possibility of an additional third state secretary at the Ministry of Health. At this point, I must point out that the Ministry of Health is more than two months from 18. 12. 2020 to 23. 2. 2021 was led by the President of the Government himself. But he even thinks that the management of the Ministry of Health would go the hockey way of flying ministers. Hand to heart, even with the choice of secretary of state, there was no luck. Your Honor! The proposal or reason of the additional State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Government, justifies that structural reforms are urgently needed at the Ministry of Health and, as such, constitute permanent changes. Systemic funding for health care, the acceleration of digitalisation in health, the urgent legislative changes and reforms that Europe has been alerting for some time now, the renewal of the pay system in health care and the establishment of greater resilience of the health system to emergency events and future epidemics are, therefore, areas in which we need to break through in the coming years. As stated in the amendment to the law, the Ministry is being reorganised. Two new Directorates have been set up, namely the Directorate for Health Economics and the Directorate for the Development of the Health System, which are the organisational basis for achieving the objectives of the reform described. They also state that the Ministry has strengthened itself with additional urgently needed staff at the level of individual sectors and services. However, the establishment of two new Directorates is the basis and necessary for the appointment of a new third State Secretary. If, in this part, I refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which reminds us once again of the derogation from the system solution, which allows up to two State Secretaries at ministries, and that the issue of the number of State Secretaries should be addressed at a systemic level. This opinion can also be seen as a policy reference to agree urgently on the number of State secretaries in the ministries, not least in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, and thus prevent further partial regulation and appointment of political officials of each government and thus the wealth of the state administration. Your Honor! As difficult an area as the health system in our country can not only rest on an additional secretary of state, it must be based on a policy that will give clear direction towards which our health system will go. We are social democrats and will be advocates of a quality public health system that will be accessible to all, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. On the basis of all the above, we cannot give support to the Social Democrats to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u112	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Your Honor, thank you for your help. The debate on the number of State secretaries to be held by ministers is common. The key solution to the amendment of the Law on State Administration also relates to the appointment of another State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Virtually every government has so far wanted a secretary of state more. In 2002, each of the ministries had a maximum of one State Secretary; in 2012, the amendment increased to two; in 2014, the number doubled to four at the Ministry of Finance. When she wanted to hire additional six State secretaries, the government of Marjan Šarc, or the LMŠ Group, prevented this, and today's coalition against it. Mr Zvonko Černač, then a member of the SDS today, even warned on behalf of the SDS that the additional Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health would not be any less dead due to the flu and that the results in health would not be any better. Today, the same SDS clearly believes that we will stop the epidemic by political personnel. This is almost understandable because this government is much more capable of solving or dealing with the epidemic. The fact is that today we are legislating another well-paid political function and nothing else. Due to the additional political officer, vaccination will be no more effective and no more effective vaccination strategy, no more vaccine will be available and no less public money will flow into the private pocket. The fact that it is no more than one well-paid service proves that it is a priority for this government. If the government wanted to strengthen the public health system, it could have allocated EUR 780 million to it, but it preferred to give them to arms. If she wanted to improve public health infrastructure, she could have spent almost a billion euros on public health infrastructure and would rather spend it on a handful of the richest. If the objective were to be really better public, accessible health services for all, it would end the supplementary insurance and stop the gradual privatisation. This is all in the interests of this government before. At the time of the epidemic, we have always submitted a constructive proposal for solutions in Levika, we have always warned about mistakes and we have proposed concrete measures, but the Government has always dipped us with evidence of unconstructiveness and speculation and continued with its completely undemocratic, repressive and time-consuming actions. The epidemic is such a smoke screen for all the disadvantages of this government and a convenient excuse for all the wrong policies that this government unfortunately runs, including today's amendment to the Law on State Administration. We oppose the law in Levica because of all the above-mentioned proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The management of every successful company, as well as the management of the country, if it is to be successful and pervasive, must not be so, but must in particular respond quickly to the different situations prevailing in the market or in some environment. Today's proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has presented to us for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration in New Slovenia, is seen in the light of the response of the Government and the Ministry of Health to an even better response to the challenges posed to us and the world by the fight against the invisible enemy covido-19. The State Administration shall act in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and laws and regulations. The provision of Article 120(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the organisation of the administration, its powers and the manner in which its officials are appointed shall be governed by law. In this case, the basic provisions concerning State Secretaries are governed by Article 17 of the Law on State Administration, which provides that no more than two State Secretaries may be appointed at the individual Ministry, as an exception to today's definition of the Ministry of Finance, where four State Secretaries may be appointed. We are all aware that the worst epidemic of our time has brought additional challenges that have changed activities and working methods in the Ministry of Health. Mr Poklukar's work as Minister of Health seeks to resolve the obstacles, so the Minister has set a number of objectives, including the necessary structural reforms. The process is to reorganise the Ministry, which established two new Directorates, namely the Directorate for Health Economics and the Directorate for the Development of the Health System, which are the organisational basis for a stronger role and strengthening the Ministry. The required situation presents challenging challenges and we need to adapt to them. In Novi Slovenije we therefore support the increase in the number of state secretaries at the Ministry of Health from the current two to three. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats support the work of Minister Poklukar. We trust him to successfully address the challenges he faces with his team. The second amendment in the bill follows the objective of increasing the level of information security. The Ministry of the Interior is certainly aware of the importance of a high level of data security and therefore suggests that the internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior be excluded from the centralisation of information technology in the state administration. Disengagement of systems is essential and useful, as the proposed amendment and complement will ensure a more efficient and transparent and safer performance of the Ministry's tasks. Internal information systems of the Ministry of Interior and Police are collected and processed and stored in internal information systems of the Ministry with both bodies in its composition; police and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Affairs. They are such that, in order to ensure an adequate high level of security, they are not suitable for transferring to the common information structure managed by the Ministry of Public Administration. The very interconnection of systems prevents the relevant system for the internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior with a lower level of security and the police information system with a higher level of security. Some of us are surprised that the motivation to finally resolve this issue was shown only below this government in the December 2014 to March 2021 interval. For all these reasons, Christian Democrats will simultaneously support the proposed proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! The amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, which we will decide on today, include two key changes to the current regime. The first suggests that the internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior be excluded from centralised information technology in the state administration, as internal information systems of the Ministry of Interior and the police have been intertwined procedurally and dataically. We believe in the SMC in the relevance of the proposal, as it will in particular bring about a higher level of security of the data collected and processed. The second amendment, however, increases the number of State secretaries in the Ministry of Health from two to a maximum of three State secretaries. The last change was due to different opinions which received slightly more attention. In the SMC, we also understand the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in its explanation draws attention to the derogation from the system regime, while at the same time we are aware of the exceptional situations faced by the Ministry of Health and which have stimulated the desire to amend this law. The fact is that the current situation of the epidemic and how urgent health reforms require human resources reinforcements, including in the field of State secretaries. It is also a fact that, due to the dynamic nature of work and changing circumstances, it is not possible to establish pre-established human resources structures at individual ministries for a long time. Eliminating and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic is a real step towards normalising the current health picture. At the same time, the epidemic has further addressed a number of outstanding issues from the past. Our appeal is aimed at further tackling the consequences of underdevelopment of health care in the past periods in the coming period and ensuring that the Slovenian health system is prepared for long-term pressures, especially for all citizens and citizens, to provide accessible and quality health services and finally to regulate long-term care. At the Ministry of Health, the newly appointed State Secretary would be the carrier of activities in the economic and legislative part of the reforms, as well as in the field of digitisation of the Slovenian health system, which is also necessary. As long as the proposed change in the form of human resources reinforcement leads to the greater operationality of the Ministry of Health and the speedy regulation of the cases already mentioned, we see no reason to oppose it. At the Modern Centre Party, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u118	Nicely greeted, chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration provides for an increase in the number of State Secretaries at the Ministry of Health, from two to three State Secretaries. The second proposed solution concerns information and communication systems. For security reasons, the proposal provides for the establishment of an information system of the Ministry of the Interior from centralised information technology in the state administration. Such a system contains sensitive data as it intertangles with the police system, which is already excluded from the central system of state administration. The proposaler, i.e. the Government, states that strengthening the Ministry of Health is essential mainly because of the regulation of the health financing system and the promotion of digitalisation due to the legalisation of the reform required of the European Union, and for the effective fight against the epidemic and in order to create greater resilience to the health system. Finally, a renewal of the system of health-care workers' salaries is announced. It is clear as a white day that the situation in Slovenian health care is difficult and we are very well aware of this in SAB. Even before the outbreak of covid-19, it was evident that our health system has many shortcomings. Among other things, the waiting line is too long, the poor organisation of the work, and for these purposes a substantial lack of funds has been allocated to the health sector. The epidemic has further revealed and deepened the weakness of the health system and has clearly put the value of collective health first. The current situation is already on the verge of sustainable, especially in the area of accessibility to health services. One of the most pressing health problems is still waiting types, and the epidemic is making the situation worse. It is common for a government to coordinate and organise its own work, and if the current government estimates that it needs reinforcements at the Ministry of Health, we cannot challenge it. All of us must be absolute priorities in order to curb the spread of coronavirus and to deal effectively with the epidemic and to ensure that the health situation is normalised as quickly as possible. At the same time, we point out that we will expect effective solutions from a strengthened team at the Ministry of Health; those that will bring appropriate organisational, human and wage policies to doctors and health workers, and effective and accessible public health to citizens and citizens. For the client of the SAB, the Social Liberal Democrats, ensuring the health of citizens and regulating the health sector is a priority, so we will not oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Madam Members, Madam Members! In the constitutional division of power to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the State Administration shall exercise its powers within the executive branch of the authority in which it performs its administrative tasks. The need for better governance is a necessity and the change and adaptation of organisational structures interferes with established interests and habits. Governance of public affairs is an area of the fight for power, but it must also be an area of the performance of tasks. The proposal to amend the law interferes with the area of two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Health proposes an increase in the number of State secretaries from two to three. It is not surprising to take into account only the fact that this ministry's budget increased from the originally planned €193 million to €528 million this year, that is to say €334 million in one year and that 294 million expenditure is foreseen in the adopted budget for 2022. For comparison. The implementation of the budget expenditure in 2019, according to the last pre-crisis year, at the Ministry of Health was € 183 million. Such an enormously increased budget needs to be managed and additional people are also needed. It cannot be overlooked, however, that major accelerations in the digitalisation processes in health are also planned, that several urgent legislative changes are in place to implement the experience gained during the epidemic. Above all, proposals for long-term measures will need to be put in place to create greater resilience of the healthcare system to emergency events. It's not like she's telling herself to create illusions. The numerical increase in the number of State secretaries alone will not in itself compensate for the capacity, capacity, ambition and will required to carry out such work, nor will it compensate the needs and opportunities provided by the Ministry as an organisational system. State secretaries and secretaries are expected to have a strong character and communication skills, to be well informed and capable of strategic thinking. However, ministers appointed must clearly express what is expected of them: knowledge, skills, efficiency, what achievements, which key relations must establish and apply, and this is in particular a question of responsibility, why there is no effective authority without responsibility. The democratic experience of political responsibility is beneficial for the better exercise of public authority. The amendment of the law also provides for the internal information system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to be excluded from centralised information technology in the state administration. For the sake of their specific characteristics and characteristics relevant to the existence and functioning of the State, certain areas have already been excluded from the information and communication system. For example, defence, foreign affairs, police, intelligence and security, and some others. Its kind of paradox is that within the system there is the Ministry of the Interior, whose body is also the police. There are urgent procedural and data interconnections between them, and data are also of such a nature that, in order to ensure an adequate high level of security, they are not suitable for transfer to the common information platform. From the implementation of the original version of the law to today, it has been just over six years. At that time, was it possible to check that security data could be transferred into unauthorized hands? At the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, we were told that this had not happened. Members of the Desus Group will support amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u122	Nice hello to you all! The bill we have on the table is very welcome, as any additional human resources reinforcement is more than desirable, even now at the time of the covida-19 epidemic, when the situation needs to be resolved as soon as possible. We have before us an amendment to Article 17 of the Law on State Administration. At present, our undernourished health care is the most on the wallpaper, so it is right for the Ministry of Health to have the possibility of equal staffing reinforcements more; therefore, there are no more than three state secretaries or secretaries in place. We, too, in the Slovenian National Party, want the Ministry of Health to have, in particular, first-class, sovereign and professional secretaries of state who will be in line with their new function. Like the Legal and Legislative Service of the Republic of Slovenia, we have also noticed in the Slovenian National Party that it is already a second step away from system regulation. We can also ask ourselves whether such a human resources structure is appropriate for a long period of time because it is not coughing to manage more than 100 million euros. Strengthen the Ministry of Health apologises for the need to fully manage the financing of our health as soon as possible. It will also work more quickly in the field of digitisation, to create resilience to extraordinary events such as this and the others, to renovate the system of health workers' salaries. Our recommendation or initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its further work would also be to make the number of State secretaries more systematic, even in an integrated manner. In the future, we therefore have a number of reforms, amendments to laws, which will certainly be a tough one, because the epidemic has completely unleashed many weaknesses and this is precisely in the field of health. The amendment also excludes the internal information system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs from the centralisation of information technology in the state administration. We wish that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister and all its co-workers continue to work until the end of this term so that they do not fall under their feet, because otherwise we will not come anywhere, and our citizens and citizens will be killed. We must be aware that, at this point, they are facing many, yet unknown challenges that lie ahead in the future. During difficult times, we need to take the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia together and help each other with our hand in hand. The issues, despite the fact that they are hot and leaky, must take place legally and transparently in our democratic society. There are also financial implications for the state budget and other public funds, which will be paid by the new Secretary of State, which will amount to €5 000,660 per month gross, we stress gross. In the Slovenian National Party, we favour the positive consequences that the economy and the state administration will definitely feel in their operations. Finally, I would say that the Secretary of State, as we know, has the status of an official and may, by written permission, replace the Minister when he is absent. Nevertheless, as Members, in the important draft laws that are very media-responsive, we want the Minister or the Minister to tell us firsthand how things are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u124	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to all present and to all who accompany us. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal to amend the Law on State Administration. The first amendment concerns the number of State Secretaries at the Ministry of Health. We are all aware, and I also hope that we agree that this government's mandate is marked by a health situation. For many years, citizens and healthcare professionals have been waiting for a regulated health policy. In her first year, this government showed that it is capable of supporting healthcare professionals. In the face of the covida-19 epidemic, medical personnel were allowed to work. Not only the Ministry, but the entire Government has made sure that healthcare personnel had sufficient protective equipment, technical equipment, suitable premises and also financial compensation for work. It was quickly found that it was necessary to deal with this. Article 17 of the Law on State Administration, the basic version of 2002, provides that a maximum of two State Secretaries or a maximum of four at the Ministry of Finance may be appointed within the Ministry. This was then regulated in 2014. At the time of the epidemic, the existing team of State secretaries proved to be too small to be able to carry out their tasks effectively. It is therefore proposed to increase the number of State secretaries at the Ministry of Health from a maximum of two to a maximum of three so far. The Ministry of Health has been staff-fed for a long time. The process is to reorganise the Ministry, which established two new Directorates, namely the Directorate for Health Economics and the Directorate for the Development of the Health System, which are the organisational basis for achieving the objectives of the reforms described, which is also part of the possibility of an additional Secretary of State, since without strengthening the leadership of the reforms listed, efforts cannot be made. The strong role and strengthening of the Ministry of Health is also necessary due to structural reforms. The regulation of the health funding system, the substantial acceleration of digitalisation in health care, several urgent legislative changes due to reforms also required by the European Union, covid-19 and certain measures to create greater resilience of the health system to emergency events and future – hopefully not – epidemics. The planned renewal of the health pay system, which, as such, entails permanent changes, is therefore also a need for an additional State Secretary of a permanent nature. The second amendment concerns data management. After the Ministry of Public Administration has taken over the management of the public administration information and communication systems, it has been shown that the internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to ensure an adequate high level of security, is not suitable for remote management and transfer to the common information infrastructure managed by the Ministry of Public Administration. This amendment was already in 2014. Due to the process and data connectivity of the internal information systems of the Ministry of Interior and Police, it is not possible to implement separate systems on the internal information system of the Ministry of the Interior with a lower level of security and on this information system of the police. It is therefore proposed that the internal information system of the ministry responsible for internal affairs be excluded from the centralisation of information technology within the state administration, including in order to ensure the security of our data and your data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support all these changes unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place half an hour after the end of the third item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE TRAINING LAW, IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished other guests! The main reason for amending the Rail Transport Act is the partial transposition of Directive (EU) 2012/34/EU establishing a single European rail area. Since the Republic of Slovenia has received an official reminder of the incorrect transposition of certain provisions of this Directive, we have removed them from the official notice in the following way by means of these proposed amendments to the law. Therefore, in order to improve the legal framework and to improve legal certainty, provisions have been added in the context of amendments to the law imposing on the licensing authority an assessment of the company’s withdrawal in insolvency proceedings. The second observation by the European Commission refers to the condition of undertakings with respect to good reputation, which must be met by the carrier applying for a licence. According to the European Commission's opinion, the requirements are widespread and cover all crimes. The proposal to amend the law also brings some updates, some improvements. The possibility of building rights on public railway infrastructure is being regulated, provided that this does not prejudice the use of public rail infrastructure. In order to address the noise problem caused by rail transport, it is added that anti-group fences are also included in public rail infrastructure. The draft law complements the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. This also includes a replacement in the framework of maintenance with reference to the definition of the concept of the Railway Safety Act. The replacements include components for preventive or corrective maintenance that have the same function and operate equally. The law extends the tasks of the public railway infrastructure manager to a new level, and we add to the tasks of the company the tasks of managing real estate in the railway area owned by the State and not managed by other real estate managers on the basis of other rules. The Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate shall carry out the task of developing public railway infrastructure in accordance with the provisions of the current law. This also means cooperation in the preparation of spatial acts in the field of railway infrastructure. The Directorate shall, at their request, submit its development and protection needs in the form of guidelines and opinions relating to rail infrastructure to the authors of the municipal spatial acts, so that this task is delegated by means of a proposal from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the DRSI, which is the body of the Ministry. The draft law and amendments relating to Articles 3, 5, 9 have been considered and adopted by the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee and adopted at its 10th meeting. 5. We therefore propose to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to our Rail Transport Act, which will allow for a number of improvements and transposition of the European acquis. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Bojan Pod oblast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u128	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Hello, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 41st emergency meeting. 5. 2021 As a parent working body, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, stressed that the main reason for the amendment of the law is the partial transposition of Directive 2012/34/EU on the establishment of the same European railway area, since the Republic of Slovenia received an official notice from the European Commission due to the incorrect transposition of certain provisions of that Directive. In order to improve the legal framework and to increase legal certainty, the proposed amendment adds provisions which will impose on the licensing authority to assess in the carrier’s insolvency proceedings the withdrawal of the licence to an undertaking. The amendments also concern the conditions of undertakings with respect to good reputation that carriers applying for a licence must establish, namely, the requirements of the European Commission's opinion are widespread and cover all offences. Among other changes, he pointed out that the possibility of establishing building rights on public railway infrastructure is being regulated if it interferes with natural public railway infrastructures. Progress is also being made in the area of noise protection, as anti-group fences will be considered as an integral part of public rail infrastructure and the maintenance of public rail infrastructure is being complemented. The proposal for a law extends the tasks of the company SZ - Infrastructure, d.o.o., as the manager of public railway infrastructure. However, the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia clearly defines the tasks of the development of the public railway infrastructure already carried out in accordance with the law. Ms Marolt, representative of the Law and Law Service, pointed out that the Law and Law Service had given a written opinion on the proposal, in which it highlighted the nomological comments on Articles 3, 5 and 9, which were intended to ensure that the amendment of the law could also be properly incorporated into the law in force. In view of the good reputation of the carrier applying for the licence referred to in Article 8 of the amendment, she pointed out that there were no reasons in the legislative material to justify the proportionality of the solutions proposed. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Councillor Bojan Režun, pointed out that the Commission supports the bill. It particularly welcomes the proposed possibility of harmonising the building right on public railway infrastructure along the track lane, which will make it easier for buildings to be placed in the premises compared to the current arrangement and thus enable municipalities to plan development needs more easily and more quickly, and to implement reconstructions and reconstruction of existing facilities that interfere with public rail infrastructure. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, SMC and Nova Slovenija by Articles 3, 5 and 9 and then, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u130	Thank you, President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The legislative proposal, which we are going to decide on today, has also come to the parliamentary bench, among other things, because the Republic of Slovenia has received an official notice from the European Union due to the incorrect transposition of certain provisions of the Directive. The bill removes the evidence of the note adopted, and at the same time brings some good other solutions. Proposalers with legal solutions shall resolve the European Commission's observation concerning the under-defined insolvency proceedings. The solution can be seen in the fact that the licensing authority, namely the Public Agency for Rail Transport, is given the task of assessing the withdrawal of the licence from the undertaking insolvent proceedings of the carrier. In addition, the solutions propose an expansion of the scope of the establishment of service rights and additionally lay down building rights on public rail infrastructure in the lane and on properties in the lane, which are owned by the State and which are not public railway infrastructure. In the SD Group of Members, we welcome the solutions that the marriage proposal brings, but it is true that we are somewhat held back when it comes to the solutions provided by Article 8. According to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the solutions to this Article can be disputed in terms of the principle of proportionality, as reflected in the constitutional principles of the rule of law. The bill was also supported by the competent Commission of the State Council, and in the Group of Social Democrats we join their assessment that the proposed possibilities for building a building right on public railway infrastructure along the track strip will facilitate the placement of facilities in the premises and, consequently, enable local communities to plan and implement development needs more quickly and to restore and reconstruct existing facilities. I will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! The law partially transposes Directive 2012/34/EU and further lays down the conditions for the acquisition of real rights in the public rail infrastructure area. The establishment of real rights makes sense where the investor is another person who does not build public railway infrastructure facilities. This will make it easier to build or rebuild sidewalks, roads, intersections and so on in the area. In addition, the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia shall lay down the tasks of issuing guidelines and opinions and of carrying out other mandated tasks in the preparation of municipal spatial plans. This is an extremely technical law that we do not object to in principle in Levica. The problem is the amendment of the coalition, which was put into law two days ago. This amendment provides that parking is also part of the public railway infrastructure. It follows from the explanation of the amendment that these car parks and bicycles should be part of the Park and Ride system, park and drive, but not only this one; therefore this should also be a permanent infrastructure for filling electric vehicles, cars, skiers and so on. The explanation is that, in principle, it is not possible to oppose it in such a way. In short, the explanation sounds great, but what if the problem is in the content of the amendment. With this amendment, parking lots become part of public railway infrastructure. And it's not just Park and Ride parking, it's all parking lots. This, in turn, entails a series of commitments, reliefs and so on. Public railway infrastructures are facilities and installations necessary for the smooth decommissioning of public rail transport and associated land that serves functionally their intended use. Public railway infrastructure shall be built publicly and owned by the State and shall be used in the manner and under the conditions laid down by this law and on the basis of its rules. Parking lots aren't all of them, but if they are any of them, it certainly can't be any parking lot at all, but it's only possible under this law if this amendment touches the law. It is likely to be another kind of lobbyist amendment, where the explanation has nothing to do with actual content or has only a partial link to it, and then it can potentially hide something else. It is therefore another instigator in the law, which could, without this, be a purely non-problem, instigator just before the present, two days ago, such as the leaked mode of operation of this government. Members and Members of Parliament are under-educated at this point, too ignorant of what this amendment can entail, so that we can just accept it if we are responsible Members. Neither the Government has given its opinion and explanation in this regard, and if this amendment is to be adopted, there can potentially be great damage that cannot be assessed at this time, and this amendment must therefore be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act partially transposes the Directive of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order, thus removing the evidence from the European Commission's official reminder for incorrect transposition of certain provisions of the Directive in question. The European Commission's assessment refers to the under-defined procedures relating to the carrier's insolvency proceedings. Slovenia has undertaken to improve the legal framework by requiring the licensing authority, the Public Agency for Rail Transport, to assess the carrier’s insolvency proceedings as regards the withdrawal of the carrier’s licence. In addition, broader requirements concerning the carrier's good reputation are added, since the carrier applying for a licence must not be sentenced to imprisonment for one or more years for a criminal offence. Nor shall he be penalized for a violation of the labour and social security, safety and health rules at work or customs in cross-border freight transport in the last two years prior to the application for acquisition and shall not be in bankruptcy proceedings. Furthermore, the proposal also proposes to extend the scope of the establishment of service rights and to further establish building rights on public rail infrastructure in the lane and on property in the lane owned by the State and not part of the public railway infrastructure. The proposal includes the establishment of a building right in the public railway infrastructure area in cases where the conditions for the establishment of a service right are not met because of the nature and gravity of the interference in terms of the increased burden on the property, as provided for by the law in force. Most of the time, it is already existing facilities that need to be restored and expanded, such as sidewalks, roads, road sections, intersections, circulars, and, of course, it interferes with public rail infrastructure. The establishment of a real right will be decided by the public railway infrastructure manager, who will in each particular case assess the impact of this right and the public railway infrastructure facility, which does not mean that the building will also become part of the public railway infrastructure. In addition, an anti-group fence is included among the components of the railway infrastructure and the maintenance of the public railway infrastructure by the Slovenian Railways - Infrastructure, d.o.o. It will also manage facilities that do not have a specific operator under the applicable legislation, such as a parking lot built along the railway area. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposal of the law, and we are particularly positive about the possibility of building a building right on public railway infrastructure along the track path, which will certainly facilitate the placement of facilities in the space and also allow municipalities to better and faster planning of development needs and to implement reconstruction and reconstruction of facilities that interfere with public railway infrastructure. We will also accept the amendment tabled by Members of New Slovenia, together with the SDS and SMC. This amendment allows the railway station infrastructure intended for passengers to become part of the public rail infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u136	Your Honor! At today's meeting, we are deciding on the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act. The proposal for a law before us primarily refers to the requirements and recommendations of the European Union regarding the transposition of certain provisions of the European Directives and, on the other hand, covers the area of contractual relations relating to the use of public rail infrastructure. The proposal for a law is such an important step towards greater compliance of our legislation with the European acquis in the field of rail transport regulation. In the European Commission, the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to implementing certain provisions which, inter alia, require the licensing authority to assess the company’s withdrawal in insolvency proceedings. With such arrangements, we will follow the legal arrangements set by the example of other countries. The implementation of these provisions will also help to improve the legal framework within a complex infrastructure system such as the railway network, a key basis for the effective and safe fulfilment of the various contractual obligations of all stakeholders. The amendment of the law also extends the scope of the establishment of service rights on public railway infrastructure and on those properties in the country-owned lane. In the past, there have been problems with the use of public rail infrastructure where the controller was not legally authorised to decide building rights for such or such facilities. This problem was often reflected in blocking the construction or restoration of parts of roads, sidewalks, circulars, intersections that needed renewal or expansion, but did not occur due to interference with public rail infrastructure. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are always committed to making better use of those parts of the infrastructure that have the potential to complement them with good complementary projects, thus shaping the Slovenian logistics scheme according to the measure of people. For this very reason, we must weigh each project among factors such as efficiency, security and last but not least environmental concern. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that many successful infrastructure projects, both locally and nationally, are good evidence that we are on the right track to deal with this problem. We are convinced that the bill removes part of the meaningless obstacles and contributes to a more efficient use of space. On the basis of the above arguments, we will be happy to support the proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We are looking at a law that, in our view, brings the necessary changes. The main reason for its change lies in the partial transposition of one of the European directives, as Slovenia received an official reminder due to the incorrect transposition of the provisions by the European Commission. The Commission has noted that the provision in the law relating to good reputation is limited to crimes against the economy only, while the directive covers all serious crimes. Under the new legislation, the Public Agency for Rail Transport, which has identified all offences and not only those in the field of the economy, as it has done so far, will be identified by the licensing authority, the exercise of good reputation. Therefore, we did not receive a warning because the directive would not be properly implemented, but because we did not properly introduce provisions into the law. It's an unnecessary slip-up and it's only right to put an end to this disharmony, to the change of law. It should be noted, however, that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, pointed out that the proposed solution was linked to conditions for the exercise of a better reputation than the required directive and that no reasons were given in the legislative material to justify the proportionality of the proposed solutions. Therefore, from the overlying definition, the Ministry is moving on to a potentially overly strict regime. We wonder whether such a transposition of the directive is a kind of legal obstacle that will restrict market access. Practice will show whether, on the basis of the new legal provisions, displaying good reputation will be unduly hampered. Although the bill brings more solutions that are not controversial. We know, for example, that the 100-metre belt along the track in many Slovenian towns is quite densely populated. These people are daily exposed to excessive noise, and their lives are greatly facilitated by countergroup fences. These will be an integral part of public rail infrastructure from now on, and this will help to improve the protection against noise. As well as a welcome change, we are assessing the possibility of establishing a building right on public rail infrastructure along the lane. Practice has shown that this area needs to be addressed. The law now only foresees the possibility of obtaining official rights, such as water supply, sewerage, various entanglements and so on, and, of course, the burdens are often higher. The new arrangement will facilitate the renovation and reconstruction of existing facilities. Areas of railway stations in Slovenia are often degraded and this change will certainly also help to improve their management. After all, this will also be of great importance in the light of the planned changes in railway stations, which are expected to become popular points of collection and time-consuming through modernisation. On this occasion, therefore, the call on the Government to charge the owner of the facilities with the provision of services, adequate time and proper management through the management bodies. We will not oppose the proposal for a law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u140	A lovely greeting to all present! The law concerns the transposition of the directive to a narrower extent or the establishment of a single European railway area and minor amendments to the text of the law. In doing so, we must not forget that the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself in response to the official reminder that it will complete and adopt the Rail Transport Act by the end of the previous year for the full transposition of the Directive, not now that we will not, as we have done many times, pay high penalties. In the SNS, we are inclined to extend the establishment of service and building rights on public rail infrastructure in the lane and on property in the country-owned lane. A display of regulation in other legal systems, for example in neighbouring Croatia, shows us that their categorised railway lines are publicly owned by the country. Slovenian railway infrastructure also receives new duties, tasks for the management of facilities which do not have a specific operator under current legislation. The positive thing is that the facilities will be more easily placed in space, as well as the fact that our municipalities will plan their development needs more quickly and more easily according to their priorities. Here is a talk about parking lots, bicycle rentals, bike paths, revenue, approaches and so on, which the current law does not allow. In local terms, this means, in practice, that existing buildings, such as sidewalks, roads, intersections, rondo, need to be slightly expanded, reconstructed or restored, and this has not been possible until now. Emerging conditions also indicate the need to develop new development models, where railway stations are to become some major trading centres or a junction where something is going on. This would make our citizens and tourists more attractive, more dynamic and lively, not as sad as it is now. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we have too many railway and bus stations, which are degraded and necessary renovations. As soon as possible. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that railway infrastructure be built both below and above in a similar way to garage houses, where we will be paired with space, even in larger cities. I would also highlight the problem of danger at the level crossings of the road, which is linked to non-compliance with traffic rules. Accidents occur mainly because of the low culture and the audacity of road users. In view of the increase in rail traffic, it is finally working on the need for anti-collective railways to ensure that noise does not disturb residents there. The anti-group fences are already good to see when you're on a train to Ljubljana. They are not beautiful, but they are definitely effective, and they also allow people privacy from curious viewpoints. In any case, anti-group fences should still be built, especially in those places where the houses are close to the railway line. However, the best thing to do is to get as much rail transport underground as possible, this would certainly be necessary in Ljubljana. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome the Government's intention to regulate certain things that should have already been regulated by the amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, and there has been a clear lack of interest in this area in previous governments, at least for some of them. The main purpose of this amendment is to partially transpose the European Union Directive establishing a single European railway area. Since, not for the first time, Slovenia, due to the incorrect transposition of the directives, has received an official notice from the European Commission, this legislative process of amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act also regulates these matters and puts them in the right place. In order to improve the legal framework, provisions will be added to the law which will require the licensing authority to assess the company’s withdrawal in insolvency proceedings. At the same time, wider requirements for good reputation, covering all crimes, have been added. The law also proposes to extend the scope of the establishment of service rights and to further determine the building right on public rail infrastructure in the lane and on the property in the lane, which are owned by the State and which do not have the status of public railway infrastructure. This and the solutions followed by the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Republic of Slovenia are very pleased with the local communities or municipalities, because the new arrangement will facilitate the placement of the facilities in the area of the track and since it will enable municipalities to better and faster plan development needs and implement reconstructions and reconstructions of existing facilities affecting public railway infrastructure, which has not least been welcomed and supported by the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Of course, the Slovenian Railways also agreed with these changes. The new proposal therefore includes the establishment of a building right in the public rail infrastructure area in cases where the conditions for the establishment of a service right are not met because of the nature and gravity of the interference in terms of the increased burden on the property, as provided for by the law in force. This is often the case with existing facilities requiring renovations or reconstructions and enlargements which interfere with public rail infrastructure. In addition, anti-group fences are added to the components of this infrastructure. We particularly welcome the change in the extent to which the public railway infrastructure is maintained by the Slovenian Railways - Infrastructure that will receive new management tasks for facilities that do not have a specific operator after the present legislation; for example, parking lots built along the railway area and other infrastructure facilities. It is also newly stipulated that the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, which carries out the tasks of developing railway infrastructure, shall be given new powers in issuing guidelines and opinions and shall carry out other prescribed tasks in the preparation of municipal spatial acts as a carrier of space regulation. For all the reasons stated in the position, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group fully supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, which, by refreshing the law, will be the basis for modern and advanced and more efficient management of public rail infrastructure, as well as of all facilities and areas that are in favour of public good. We are particularly pleased that this is another product of many of this government, which is seeking synergies between the country and the municipalities against the needs of local communities and thus the welfare of citizens and citizens and citizens. So, these changes and amendments to the law will be welcomed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I see that there is a desire for discussion; just to inform you, everyone who applies is available for 5 minutes. First, she asked for Natasha Sukić's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u144	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President, because I'm going to be very brief, I won't need five minutes. In my opening remarks, I pointed out what was the problem with this amendment that came before us two days ago, and it's always been so. This story repeats itself – right, the last-minute amendments – to which even the Government does not define itself and which may hide some potential traps. I'm not saying they're hiding them, but given that we don't know exactly, we don't know exactly what it is, we can't just think of something. Look, no one is absolutely opposed to being in the parking lot at the train stations. The parking lots are already at every train station. In Ljubljana, say, around and around, full of parking lots, right? Same everywhere else. So that no one would think that we are now opposed to parking lots – but what is the problem? See, public rail infrastructures are facilities and installations necessary for the smooth decommissioning of public rail transport and some associated land that are functionally used for certain purposes. It is a public railway infrastructure, it is built publicly and owned by the State and is used in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the law and on the basis of the rules then also issued. And now, what is the problem with this amendment, to which it is really impossible to define itself simply because it is well described? See, for the maintenance, operation and restoration of public rail infrastructure is a compulsory public service. However, we know that public rail infrastructure can also develop in a public-private partnership, but the problem is that it is financed by the state. And that's why we don't really know exactly what's behind this amendment, and it's a little strange that it came before us two days ago, that even the government didn't really define itself and it's a little suspicious. There could also be some kind of lobbyist amendment written back on someone's skin. Since parking lots are never — and do not need to be — part of public rail infrastructure, there is no need for them to be. However, if you accept this amendment, then, as we say, we will be in a situation where maintenance, operation, renewal and so on will fall on the back of the country, even though it may be a mixed business, such as a public-private partnership. That is why we can think of how great this is, that now parking lots are part of public rail infrastructure, but we cannot talk if we are Members and Members of Parliament are at least a little responsible. It doesn't just work like that. And it would even be possible to recommend in this government's future that it ceases in this way, that just before today, there will always be some strange amendments that leave such an uneasy feeling that everything is not quite right. So I would like to remind you that you might want to stop and think about it, because there really is no need for anything like this. However, if we accept this, the country will also pay for things that would otherwise not have to be paid. It means that it will go back to the burden of all of us citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, colleague Sukič, this amendment has been tabled as provided in the Rules of Procedure, with all the rules of business relating to this meeting. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u146	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I have always experienced that you, as chairman, have been commenting on my deliberations. You're not there to comment on my discussions. I've made it very clear what the discomfort is. If we, as Members, get two days, just before the present, some kind of amendment, where everything is not completely clear, to which even the Government has not defined itself, then I have the right to question that everything is in place. And I don't understand that as chairman you are usurping the right to interfere with my debate. I don't get involved in your discussions that way. But when you're a debater yourself, you can replicate each other. This is really not right, and I ask that from now on you respect my right as a Member to raise doubts, I express my doubts. I wasn't rude, and I argued very hard about what some traps might be hiding in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u147	It's not that, mate, you don't have the right to debate. You told me everything, and I didn't get involved. I just said, I just explained that the amendment was tabled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. But all that remains is that this was your key thought. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u148	Well, then I am gradually explaining to you that my recommendation was meant to ensure that the Government works in such a way that we will have enough time for Members and Members to study all the implications of some amendments qualitatively. Of course, everything was in line with some of the rules. I'm not saying anything, but practice is bad if it's done right before labor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u149	Thank you very much for this inconvenient proposal of yours. The Government and everyone who submits laws, amendments and so on must follow the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure. However, if the provision is not good, if someone does not like it, they may propose to amend the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody wants any more, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the amendment will be decided half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEDIA LEGISLATION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 48 Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Andrea Chernigo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, thank you for your word, Your Honor! Digitalisation changes everything, fundamentally changes the image of the economy, politics and society, digitisation of entry into all seasons of life, sets new requirements and opens up completely new opportunities. Often, though, written words on paper sound good in theory, and in practice, we face great problems. I come alone from Primorska, between Vipavska Valley and Illyrian Bistrica. In Primorska, we are warmhearted people, to whom listening to the radio brings great satisfaction, and at the same time, we are often troubled. In listening to our best frequency, we face daily disruptions to Italian and Croatian radio programmes, the development of digitisation and the introduction of DAB+ will eliminate this, but according to current legislation this digital development for 11 local radios is not of particular importance. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In real life, we have encountered a technical problem that we are solving through these proposed amendments to the Media Law. So the proposed law before you offers only a technical solution to this problem. In 2018, the Broadcasting Council of the Republic of Slovenia announced an important operational milestone by which it selected the date 22 for the digital transmission of radio in the Republic of Slovenia. 2. 2022; a day that was figuratively named the day of the second technology. It has an important promotion role in the introduction into these new technologies for the entire Slovenian radio ecosystem; from broadcasters and broadcasters of radio programmes, dealers of technical equipment and cars to the most important article in the chain of us listeners. Most Western European countries are already seriously broadcasting radio programmes in DAB technology, DAB+ technology, some have already turned off analogue FM broadcasting or are openly flirting with it. In Slovenia, digital radio has been operating in standard DAB+ technology since 2016, the operator of this network is RTV Slovenia. In 2019 the first digital R1 radio network with national coverage was filled. Currently it broadcasts 19 of the most listening radio programmes in Slovenia. In 2020, two new radio networks were established; the R3 network covering only the Ljubljana area was set up in last April and the R2 network was set up in October and is currently waiting for the Akos call issued today. The R2 network is a specific network, allowing it to be broadcast only in the west or in the east. This offers an exceptional opportunity for smaller radio programmes to be broadcast in digital technology. The Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code, which Member States had to bring into their legal order by the end of 2020, has brought a major shift in this area. The Directive requires new cars to be equipped with DAB+ radio receivers. The development of technology offers inadequate capacity for expansion in the same area and compared to analogue broadcasting also significantly cheaper operations, but today the legislation or today article 77 of the Law on Media 11 of local radios with special significance status makes this development impossible. It forces them to choose between digital development and thus knowingly cancel local radio status with a status of special importance and broadcasting to 20-year-old technology. Both options can lead to the discontinuation of these radios in the future, as they currently do not exist, are not being built or are not planned networks with such small coverage areas. This gap, in particular the need for regulation, which will allow for the digital dissemination of local radio programmes, is also noted by a large part of the professional and interested public, among others by the Broadcasting Council and public agency Akos. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the technological aspects provided by the digital platform compared to the analogue, these are better quality of sound, multi-representative content, hearing in tunnels and Slovenian radio stations, especially the fact that there are no disturbances on this network by Italian and Croatian radio stations. These disorders have been a major and unresolved problem for decades, causing the Slovenian radio stations to be poorly heard at the border with Italy, which does not respect international agreements in this area. To avoid harmful and irreparable consequences for the Slovenian radio market, I ask you to support the proposed proposal for a law amending the Law on Media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Violeta Tomić to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Culture considered the draft law amending the Law on Media, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvato to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee has examined the draft law following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer, the Government, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council, the Broadcasting Council and representatives of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services and the Economic Interest Association of Local and Radio Stations of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments to Article 1 and Article 2 of the bill. The representative of the ZPS said at the meeting that the applicant had duly explained and had taken the comments of the ZPS into account with the amendment to Article 2. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supports the proposal of the law. During the course of business, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 2 was tabled by qualified candidates. The representative of the Government said that the government's proposed amendment to the bill did not conflict. The representative of the Broadcasting Council said that DAB+ technology, on the one hand, offers technological advantages and, on the other hand, the creation of a more liberal and competitive market where the trend is increasing. The proposed amendment to the law in Article 77 will allow for the continuous development of a digital radio in Slovenia. The representative of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, Akos, stressed that the proposed amendment is essential to allow local radio stations special importance to be distributed in digital broadcasting techniques and to be aligned with regional radio stations of particular importance, as well as with all other radio stations in Slovenia. She stressed that the proposed legal amendment had no other effect on other legal obligations and the rights of local radio stations of particular importance. A representative of the Economic Interest Association of Local and Regional Radio Programmes said that local radio stations had long asked for a legal solution to enable them to enter the DAB+ network. At the same time, she pointed out the complications that local radio stations might encounter. Local radios would also become national, and in a desire to gain a wider audience, local audiences could be unwittingly ignored. She warned that the R2 multiplex of part of Slovenia does not cover: Gorenjske, Kočevje and part of Prekmurje, which led to the formation of regional multiplexes. One of the concerns is that local radios will receive national coverage by entering the national multiplex, making them much more interesting to purchase. Systemic funding of local and regional radio stations with special importance status should also be regulated. Most of the debaters felt that the amendment was welcome, as 11 radio stations with local programme status made it particularly important to switch from analogue to a digital platform that allows for better quality of sound, sound in tunnels, disable interference by Italian radio stations at the border. However, the whole area of media legislation should be regulated at the principle level. Several concerns were also raised in the debate: local radio stations will face the problem of how not to ignore local listeners, but can also lead to a decline in the share and quality of information with local content. National coverage will raise the issue of commercialisation, as advertising is now limited. The issue of job conservation, the issue of territorial non-covery, the costs and accessibility of the licence for smaller radio stations and so on are also raised. The political aspect or claim that the amendment of the law constitutes a government attempt to monopolize the radio area was also highlighted. The bill is amended, but it hides problems that could arise in the near future. The issue of state aid to local radio stations was also raised. After 30 years of operation, Koroška radio, Radio Kranj and Radio Triglav received no funding this year. The Committee adopted the amendment of the members of the New Slovenia, SDS and SMC coalition groups to Article 2 and adopted all the articles of the bill. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u153	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Ignatius Fridl Jarc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This is a proposal concerning the amendment of Article 77 of the Media Act. This change took place on the initiative of SRDF and Akos, which was addressed by broadcasters of local radio programmes with special significance status. The change in practice will result in these publishers being able to obtain digital radio frequencies, which the current Media Act unjustifiably denies and puts them in an unequal position with other radios. A similar solution was drawn up by the Ministry of Culture in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act, which regulates this issue more comprehensively. However, since the draft law on a solution under consideration, which is based on the content, purpose and purpose of the regulation, is similar to the solution of the Ministry of Culture, the change is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We have before us a proposal to amend the Media Act, which opens the possibility for Slovenian local radio stations to digitise their broadcasting in the DAB+ system. Most Slovenian radio transport traditionally runs through analog frequencies of FM, and the transition to DAB+ is a global development standard that enables radio to improve the quality of broadcasting and reach. In the Levica Group, we are very much in favour of digitisation and development of areas of public interest, which is a quality media programme. The new regulation will be a tempting offer for Slovenian local radio stations. It becomes necessary to achieve the commercial benefit of the national radio while preserving the financial benefits that the country offers to local radio stations with a special meaning status, to have more media space, more market opportunities, more listeners, with higher sales value and so on. But ideas on short-term benefits will in practice be a difficult mission to carry out. The abundance of the radio market, the uncontrollable terrain, the human resources supply of local radio stations and the integrity of their employees will wipe out the weak from the radio map, and the new arrangements will be a quick opportunity only for the biggest fish or those kept by a capital backhold, either by their means or by their interests. Weak local radio stations will be such an easy prey for customers with appetites according to national media coverage. The initial mission of radios of particular importance, namely to inform the public about local issues, to provide legally defined local, cultural, sports, youth, religious content, will no longer be the purpose, but only an urgent evil due to the suction of public funds in profitable and capital-backed media companies. Nor do promises of better territorial coverage have solid foundations. The current coverage of the DAB+ network of R2 releases a good third of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which in practice means that, for example, some local local radio will carry out a good local programme, but will be heard in Piran, but not in domestic Kranjska Gora or Jesenica. The same fate will be experienced by a variety of radios within uncovered foxes, from Gorenjska via central Slovenia to the White Landscape and in Prekmurje. The argument on better coverage and opportunities for wider achievement today are only promises, non-reality in the DAB+ network. And watch out! Not only will the technical shortcomings of the present proposal be addressed primarily by its political subtitle. The call and the rush to adopt this proposal also comes from the title of owners and media managers of the highest client staff of the Janševa SDS. From the title of the architect of Janša's propaganda machine and the director of the new radio, Janša's sister media, Uroš Novak. As owner of one of the local radio stations and employees in Janšev’s cabinet, Novak has a clear intention to increase his reach, and in connection with the other local radio............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thus, the new Janšev media, which will launch others and be heard everywhere, will continue to receive public funds from local radio with a status of special importance for its spread of lies and client propaganda. Thus, the political dimension of the present proposal, with the excuse of digitisation, places the link between Novak and Grims, fast-tracked by Hungarian capital, in a monopoly over the national digital radio network. The solution, which will enrich the Slovenian radio landscape for the well-deserved digitisation of the network while preventing propagandist predators from jumping to the top of the food chain for the price of the lives of others who actually operate in the social interest, is a different distribution of the radio map into the DAB+ of the smaller regional multiplex. On such a delimitation, supported by a range of radio institutions and a journalistic society, local radios would provide local activities, public and quality media services, media workers with finished jobs and political maps with some peace. Digitalisation is welcome, digitisation is a necessary technological and civilisation step, digitisation is public good in the public interest. In Levi, we support digitisation, but we do not agree to use the ruling click to spread our hostile and false agenda, so we will not support this proposal in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your position. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. The proposal to amend the Media Act, which we are considering today, sets out the possibility of entering radio broadcasters of a local programme of particular importance into a digital platform with the aim of aligning the conditions for the operation of programmes of particular importance with the status of the regional programme of special importance and other radio programmes with a comprehensive transition to a digital radio platform, ensuring plurality and diversity in the already existing digital platform and maintaining competition in the radio advertising market. The existing provision of Article 77(1) of the Media Act stipulates that a programme covering areas where more than 10 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia lives by ground broadcasting does not fulfil the conditions for obtaining or maintaining the status of a local radio programme of particular importance. As a result, broadcasters of such programmes should in the future cancel either local status or digital broadcasting, since they currently do not exist, are not in construction or are not planned networks with such small coverage areas. The provision in question was written at the time of purely analogue broadcasting, when it did not constitute an unjustified obstacle or had a specific meaning, since the coverage areas with analogue frequencies are generally significantly smaller. In view of recent digital broadcasting, however, the provision poses a senseless obstacle to such programmes, since the state of technology does not justify the construction of networks in areas covering less than 10% of the population. On the other hand, digital radio networks provide sufficient capacity for the dissemination of almost all radio programmes in the Republic of Slovenia in significantly larger areas, including the possibility that listeners can have a significantly greater choice of programmes in a given area using new technology or be able to listen to a specific programme in a significantly larger area. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we support the amendment of the Law on Media, as we are updating the law and adapting it to new technologies. The culture of innovation leads to the future, which means that we are open to innovation as a society, we support creativity, we develop talents and we create an environment where they can come to terms. Innovation provides high value-added jobs and enables the Slovenian concept of a social state to function. Progress, innovation and economic growth are important for us to be able to provide a country of prosperity for all citizens in the future. New scientific, economic or technological inventions only make sense when they serve a man and not when they can only be carried out. Progress must serve people. Technology must never be detached from man and must be manageable. Education, science and research are the foundation of our prosperity and without them in a globally linked world we will not be able to compete in the area of abilities and ideas. We need a social culture of innovation and progress. Slovenia must be open to responsible innovation and forward-looking, while people must not feel forgotten and overburdened by modernisation. Good human policy takes into account and integrates it into the process. It is therefore necessary to support the education of citizens of all age groups for the use of new media and telecommunications and to promote their development and accessibility in all Slovenian places.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u160	Dear Members and Members! Honorable representative of the government! We have before us a minor amendment to the Media Act, which has opened up a range of concerns and different views on the matter that we are changing. In a relatively short discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, differing views were expressed yesterday. Unfortunately, there was no lack of political EPP, the discreditation of certain persons associated with certain local radio stations and the imputation of belonging to this or those political options in the debate and in some of the positions presented so far. But if we take away all the comments and concerns that have been in place and demonstrate potential traps, but not necessarily the shortcomings of the law, we can reach the common denominator. This is that the bill allows all radio stations equal access to a more technologically advanced broadcasting platform. The novelty in no way threatens the diversity of local radio programmes, which will be maintained in the future, but refers to one significant disadvantage of the current regime, which prevents simultaneous possession of the status of local programme of special importance and broadcasting in digital technology. The current regime limits the broadcasting of these programmes to an area of up to 10% of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. This limit poses an insurmountable obstacle to digital dissemination, as there are not enough small networks in Slovenia and they are not planned or planned. The amendment thus aligns the definition of radio programmes with the status of the local programme of particular importance in relation to programmes with the status of the regional programme of particular importance. Local programmes are defined by the novel according to the areas to which they are intended. This is an area where at least 10% of our country's population lives and has at least 20% of the local content of their own production. This also means that local radio programmes will be able to start broadcasting on a digital platform if they acquire the right to broadcast the radio programme in digital broadcasting techniques. Technological development requires urgent changes related to radio frequency allocation procedures for the DAB+ terrestrial digital broadcasting network, the so-called R2 multiplex, which could also involve 11 local radio stations of special importance. This is our actual situation, which suggests potential missed opportunities. 19 radio stations, especially commercial stations without special status, are broadcast on the so-called R1 platform, which allows national coverage and is already fully occupied. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital platform for advanced technology is considered on the European market. This is also followed by the provisions of the new Media Law, which we are considering today. We will therefore support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u162	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law amends Article 77 of the current Media Law. This is a change that will allow broadcasters of local programme radio programmes of particular importance to enter the digital platform. The current provision of that Article has already been written for the purposes of analogue broadcasting, as local broadcasters should be of particular importance in the future or cancel digital broadcasting or local status. For several years, regional organisations have been calling for the abolition of this legal anomaly. Digital radio technology allows most people in Slovenia to increase the variety of radio programmes, as it is better coverage than the FM frequency of radio stations. The digital stations not each occupy their own frequency, but occupy a channel in the multiplex. As a result, they are heard throughout the entire area covered by multiplex. The first such network has been operating with us since 2016. The digital radio thus has more advantages, including better quality of sound and greater resistance to disturbances, and is also adapted to mobile reception. If local radio stations are not allowed to be monitored in a digital broadcaster, fewer people will listen and, as a result, less interesting to advertisers will be. The amendment of the law will enable them to be more geographically covered and thus to be heard, and as a result they will attract more advertisers. Local radio stations have long faced a difficult financial situation that has led many local radio stations to fight for survival. If one points out that, unless the law is adopted in a timely manner, some of them will even be condemned to failure. Some of the concerns raised in the context of the consideration of the proposal were regarding the entry of local media into national multiplex, thus gaining national coverage. According to the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, there is a fear that local content and information will be significantly reduced. That such reservations were unnecessary, they confirmed on the Broadcasting Council. They stressed that both the Broadcasting Council and Akos are competent authorities involved in the implementation of public tendering for the award of rights in digital technology. Both bodies support the proposed solutions. If the anomaly in the law is not eliminated, there may be a reduction in pluralism and a deterioration in the development of the radio market. In the SAB Group of Members of the Social Liberals, the proposed changes are seen as positive, as they follow the development of technology and allow 11 local radio stations to keep pace with time. We'll support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u164	We will support the amendment of the Media Law, which we are co-proposers, in the Communication Group of Non-Related Members. The proposed aligns the definition of radio programmes with the status of local programme of particular importance in relation to programmes with the status of regional programme of particular importance in order to enable local radio programmes to be launched by broadcasting on a digital platform in the event of the right to broadcast the radio programme to digital broadcasting techniques. This eliminates the unequal treatment of regional radio stations that have already acquired this option. 77. Article 77 of the current Law prevents the possession of local special importance status and the possibility of broadcasting in digital technology, since these programmes can only be limited to areas with 10% of the population. In Slovenia today there is only one digital radio network with national reach, which broadcasts 19 radio programmes. As part of its service, RTV Slovenia established a second network last October, covering the west and east of Slovenia, on which only two RTV programmes are currently broadcast. If this novel is adopted, we will also allow 11 local radio stations to broadcast on this network. According to our assessment, due to the technical complexity and high costs of setting up such networks, it is not possible to expect RTV to establish, in addition to this, local radio networks on which they would like to broadcast their programme. The fact that these options are not available today means that they are excluded in an increasingly digitised world, and this could result in their abolition. In addition, the European Union will soon even ban the sale of radio receivers without digital reception. Therefore, it is high time to allow them to jump from the analogue to the digital world, which, in our view, will prevent the poverty of the radio market and preserve its diversity. The transition to digital broadcasting will also allow them to broadcast in a wider area, meaning that they will also be able to obtain additional audiences. And with greater reach, they will increase their interest in gaining advertising resources, which will affect their continued existence. Therefore, the media, which remains only in analogue form, is increasingly losing this fight for advertising cake. It is crucial for us to prevent the damage that could have occurred in the media space and thus give them the opportunity to maintain themselves more easily and enable the audience to listen to the programmes that have been used today. As you know, the Ministry of Culture has also drawn up a similar solution in its own bill, which was already under public scrutiny in 2020. At that time, the unaffiliated Members were opposed to the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, which was part of a package of wider revisions of media legislation, precisely because it was part of it. Due to the lack of transparency and urgency in the preparation and proposed solutions, we have then assessed that the amendments to the four media laws are poorly prepared and that they have harmful consequences that would be reflected in the financial weakening of public RTV Slovenia, the reduction of the autonomy of the Slovenian Press Agency and the threat to the functioning of the media and the establishment of a system of media financing that would favour the media associated with the largest coalition party. We have therefore addressed a number of comments to the Ministry, which have resulted in the fact that proposals for luck have completed their journey where they started. At first. Opinions were, as we repeat today, that current media legislation needs a thorough and integrated reform that must follow modern trends, but at the same time offers only solutions that enable independent and plural media and thus the diversity of the media market and public media services providing credible and impartial information. At that time, we also warned the Minister of Culture that the Government must, without delay, help the local and regional media whose funding has been retained, secure the promised, with contracts certain resources, otherwise they could be witnesses to their collapse and poverty, particularly the local media landscape. The current novel, unlike the Ministry's proposals mentioned above, does not have a political foretaste and does not follow the partisan interests of the various media owners. In addition, the proposed solutions are supported by the Broadcasting Council and the Communications Networks and Services Agency. We will support this novel in the Group of the Unaffiliated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u166	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, all present in the Hall, a lovely greeting! The bill is good because it provides local radios with a status of special importance to be able to access multiplex and digital radio development. The digital radio offers inadequately higher dissemination capacity in the same area, and such broadcasting is also significantly cheaper than the analogue. The development of technology, especially computer technology, has led to the universal digitisation to be followed. Access to the digital radio platform is a necessity, as it follows the latest technological solutions. Let me list just a few advantages of broadcasting radio signals in digital technology: better coverage with a signal, better quality of sound, less interference and the ability to broadcast digital information. Broadcasting at FM frequencies allows for less coverage, while digital frequencies allow coverage of a much larger area. With this change, the listener will have more choice within one broadcasting area. Also after the new cars will have only a digital receiver installed, which means that if this change does not occur, people in cars will no longer be able to listen to that radio that broadcasts on the analog frequency. Nevertheless, the question arises whether the introduction of a digital radio is even meaningful in the development of a wireless network. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u168	The proposal for a new Law on Media defines the possibility of the entry of broadcasters of local programme radio programmes of particular importance into the digital platform in order to align the conditions for the operation of programmes with the status of special importance and other radio programmes. In this way, competition is maintained on the radio market. Digital broadcasting offers inadequately increased dissemination capacity in the same area. DAB+ distribution is significantly cheaper than FM. The technical characteristics of DAB+ suggest that, in principle, it is not prudent to set up digital networks with smaller coverage areas comparable to different smaller analog frequencies. The DAB+ digital radio in the Republic of Slovenia has been operational since 2016. In 2019, the first digital R1 radio network, which has national coverage, was filled and currently broadcast through it 19 mainly commercial radio stations without special meaning status. In digital technology, however, they do not broadcast much smaller radio programmes, which also cover smaller areas in analogue techniques. Thus, currently DAB+ in Slovenia has relatively little reach in terms of the number of suitable receivers or listeners, but the number of these is growing. In particular, the Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code, which Member States should implement in this area, should bring about significant changes by the end of 2020, as it prohibits the sale of new cars with radio receivers which will not allow admission to DAB+. The amendments are supported by the Ministry of Culture and have also been included in its amendment to the Media Act. However, the amendment is a response to the long-standing warning of the Broadcasting Council that it is necessary to do so, and the amendment is supported by the Communications Network Agency and services of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the law is an essential consequence of technological development. It is also important for the implementation of a public invitation to tender for the award of public frequencies for the T-DAB+ Multiplex 2, which will be published 14. 5. and which could also involve 11 local radio stations of particular importance. The R1 platform provides national coverage and is already fully occupied. Given the great interest of other radio stations and the fact that the digital platform is the most advanced, the agency has decided to call for frequencies of a new, additional digital R2 network for a number of local and regional radio stations. It is divided into R2 - east and R2 - west, each with 14 available places. In R2 - East two cities already occupy RTV Slovenia, in other parts 11 radio stations remain of special importance and 9 regional stations, which will be given the opportunity to switch to the digital platform by amending the law. Equalization of conditions for all Slovenian radio stations will also solve decades of hearing problems, notably the FM station with Italy or the elimination of disturbances by Italian radio stations. We will support the new Media Act in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Social Democrats, at the principle level, believe that we should regulate an integrated area of media legislation, not individual partial solutions. During the first year of our government's management of the cultural centre, we have drawn up comprehensive legislation within the mandate of 2018-2022. In doing so, it should be stressed that legislation has been drawn up after broad coordination in the sector and following the adoption of a broader consensus. Unfortunately, the premature resignation of the then President of the Government, Marjan Šarc, which I regret today, has made it impossible for me to deal with media legislation in the National Assembly. Now to the novel that's on the table today. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services (Akos) and the Broadcasting Council have already sent an invitation to the National Assembly months ago to consider the proposed novels as soon as possible. By further delaying the adoption of Article 77 of the Media Law, both institutions believe that long-term negative effects on the Slovenian radio market could arise. In tracking technological developments on the broadcasting market, the Agency granted radio frequencies to establish an additional R2 network following the completion of the first national digital radio network. The network has been built by public Radiotelevision Slovenia and has been operational since October 2020. With a view to speeding up the entry of the remaining Slovenian radio stations into the digital platform, Akos, in cooperation with the Broadcasting Council, has prepared a public tender to grant broadcasting licences to radio stations on this network. If Article 77 of the Act is not amended in due time, 11 radio stations with the status of a local programme will be particularly important to prevent broadcasting on the digital radio network. Above all, this means a setback in their development and, as a result, their inevitable decline. The digital platform compared to the analogue means better quality of sound, multi-representative content, sound in tunnels and so on. Most importantly, there are no disturbances on this network by Italian radio stations. These disorders have been a major and unresolved problem for decades. Slovenian radio stations are poorly heard at the Italian border, as Italy does not respect international agreements in this area. I think that because of some unjustified fears, radio and, finally, television local programmes should not be prevented from developing the digitalisation offered. In the Social Democrats Group, we will not oppose the law or contribute a few votes in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 73rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.10 p.m. and resumed at 16.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-73.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly! I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 3 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – secondly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 5. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 1. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 3 and 4. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 3.a. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 4. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 6. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 3a, 4 and 6 of the amended draft law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 34. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda – the third is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 14. 5. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and SMC to Article 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 6. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, at the second reading, the assembly adopted the amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Media in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 73rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
