ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, and Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Maša Kociper, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Monika Gregorčič from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Runk by 4:00, mag. Marko Koprivc from 13.30 to the end of the session and Samo Bevk from 16.30 p.m. They were invited to the meeting: the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government to the 2nd item, the representative of the State Council to the 25th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Council of the Court and the candidate for the Constitutional Court of Justice, Dr. Janez Kranjc to the 50th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 28 June 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the 112th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda be extended by the following points: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the urgent procedure, EPA 2013, to be considered if adopted as the 6th item of the agenda; Proposal for a Law on prudential supervision of investment firms, urgent procedure, EPA 2014, as the 6th item of the agenda; Proposal for a Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds, urgent procedure, EPA 2016, as the 6th item of the agenda. The proposal for enlargement was received on Friday 2. Seven. 2021. Does the representative of the government want to speak as a bill-maker? Yeah. Minister Mag. Andrei Shircelj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I propose that these three laws be placed on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly in particular for the purpose of transposing directives of the European Union and that legislative procedures are actually being implemented. Let me say that the deadline for transposition in July, for one of the proposals already at the end of June, would thus improve the functioning of the financial system of all operators operating here and also ensure greater security for all participants operating in this area. I certainly think that this would be a positive signal for participants in financial markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposals for extending the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. First, we decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by agenda item 6a, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the urgent procedure, EPA 2013-VIII. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 44, against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by 6b item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law on prudential supervision of investment firms, the urgent procedure, EPA 2014-VIII. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 44, for 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are also deciding on the proposal to extend the agenda by agenda item 6c, namely the proposal for a mortgage and municipal bond law, urgent procedure, EPA 2016-VIII. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 44, against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting set the agenda as received by reference and the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 24th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Representing the six-month programme for the chairmanship of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union with the preliminary tasks of the presidency in the second half of the year 2021. The Government sent a six-month programme of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union with priorities in the second half of 2021 to the National Assembly on 3 June 2021. By letter dated 23 June 2021, Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša proposed, in accordance with Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to present the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša for his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! [[advertising from the hall]] Make a difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Mr. President, you have the floor. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in the early part of the last century, the idea of a united Europe began to emerge in the ruins of World War II. It's started. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	I'm asking for peace in the hall. President, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	It's very hard to be serious about it, really. We are talking about something that has marked our past in recent decades and which will be significant not only for the next six months but also for our lives in the coming decades. The idea of a united Europe came after generations that have created it, and have also put it into practice or have achieved its start, had dozens of millions of dead, destroyed cities, faced with fascism and Nazism or national socialism and with a tragedy that no one previously imagined. The founding fathers of the European Union wanted to set up a framework that would prevent the European peoples from fighting each other again in the future and that European freedom should be defended by a country that originated from those who once left the European Union. The idea of a united Europe had taken place first in the western part of Europe, while the eastern part of Europe was still under the shoes of another totalitarianism. The real possibility of creating a Europe that will be a whole free, at peace with itself, came only after two socialist empires broke down: the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, when the Berlin Wall collapsed and when we were also on the eastern side of the Iron Union, in Eastern and Central Europe, elected the first multilateral elections and allowed peoples, nations, to decide their own destiny. Slovenia set foot on this road 30 years ago. If I hadn't stepped on that path, I couldn't have taken the next step. We are Slovenians, I think, the only nation in the European Union that has voted with almost the same majority in the referendum for its own independence, as well as for its integration or accession to the European Union. Support for the European Union, the common European currency, the Schengen area of free movement, the movement of people, ideas, capital, is still high in Slovenia. Of course, the European Union is different today than it was when we entered it. Slovenia was the first Member State to run the Council of the European Union and then the European Council in the first half of 2008. This was the last half of one year, in which we still lived to a large extent a positive atmosphere that arose after a great expansion. The next Presidency faced a war in Georgia, faced the start of a financial and economic crisis, the threat of a break-up of the Eurosystem or the euro area. And hardly did most of the European Union breathe a bit after the financial and economic crisis, the migrant crisis came, new threats came from the east, the occupation of Crimea, three more, four frozen conflicts in our eastern neighbourhood. He followed the brexit. For the first time in the history of the European Union, the Union has shrunk and not spread, and this has snarled for one of the largest, most powerful countries. We have not yet technically regulated life in the European Union after the brexit, although some issues are still open today, the epidemic or pandemic has already arrived at the beginning of last year, and this was once again the first topic on the table of all European Union bodies. From our first presidency to our second presidency, which is now taking place within the framework of the Treaty of Lisbon, when we have a permanent President of the European Council, the European Union has gone through a series of crises at that time. It has turned out that we have been poorly prepared for most of these crises to lack some common instruments that enable the Union to face the crisis. It has been shown that in the event of a serious crisis, such as the pandemic at the beginning of last year, even the common mechanisms fall apart, do not work, all the weaknesses brought about by globalisation appear if we are not prepared to face these challenges. I wouldn't say much about it because we all experienced this time and we know what Europe looked like in March and April of last year. On this basis, it is perfectly clear and logical that the first priority of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is recovery and resilience, something that we have proposed to the Portuguese and German Triu, with which we have participated in the past year during their Presidency, and this is precisely the preparation of the European Union for similar threats in the future. Given that we have already faced cyber attacks, which were asymmetric in contrast to the pandemic, it is said that the whole European Union has never been threatened, but we are individual Member States, we have also added resistance to cyber attacks to this basket. Both Portugal and Germany have accepted this, and the European Commission has drafted a series of acts in the last year, some have also already implemented, which are making the European Union more resilient to similar challenges or to similar crises, as we saw them at the beginning of last year, with the pandemic still going on. The economic response or the financial response to the mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic was, in fact, reached, by its miraculous July year, when the European Union, for the first time in its history, decided to engage its own resources for recovery. That was something that seemed like there would never be a consensus. Among the largest Member States of the European Union, this agreement was reached at a four-day, daily and night session without interruption. Recently, the European Commission has essentially carried out its first assignment on our common behalf, the interest has been extremely great, and in the European budget there are already funds that are common, which we will jointly spend and also return together. We may not be aware, but this is some step that shifts European integration to a higher level that was previously not believed to be achieved in the next decade. However, this brings additional risks. We have just talked about them with the President of the European Court of Auditors, with whom we will work closely over the next six months, and we will also have to invest some of our efforts here. Thus, recovery and pandemic resistance is our absolute first priority, the priority of any country that has been in this place, and it is not a dilemma. Our advantage is that we were aware of this from the very beginning and that there are already many things ready and that no one today needs to be convinced that we need these new instruments. Proposals for a European Health Union are being prepared for instruments that will enable us to face it significantly more effectively than we did last year when the future epidemic or pandemic comes. National recovery and resilience programmes are under way. Slovenia received a green light from the European Commission last week. There was Lithuania behind us. We're about halfway there. In the short term, we are still awaiting the approval of these programmes by the Council of the European Union, which, of course, is also our task and will require further efforts and coordination, which we have already begun. Among this priority, there is real recovery and resilience, and our fourth priority, called the Conference on the Future of the European Union, is a range of sectoral challenges in these six months. There's no time to list everything. Behind us was a period where the Croatian, German and Portuguese Presidency acted during the epidemic, where most meetings were not physically possible. You can agree on some things over the screens, but you can't deal with others. All three presidencies worked under difficult circumstances. Everything that has been achieved during this time is, of course, welcome. In particular, the agreement on a European Recovery Fund or a new generation of the European Union should be welcomed during the German Presidency. It is important to welcome the extraordinary speed at which an agreement has been reached between the Council and Parliament on this European digital sign-up certificate, which allows most Europeans to move freely within the European Union in the coming weeks and months, not just the Schengen area. In the last days of the Portuguese Presidency, an agreement was reached on the common agricultural policy, as well as on the asylum agency, which is some good positive surprises which most did not expect. We have a period ahead of us that we hope will allow most of the arrangements to be concluded at physical meetings, where it will also be possible to open up topics that require a lot of bilateral coordination between Member States, where views are different and, of course, cannot be done through screens. We hope that there will also be a time in which the European Union will be able to focus again after 2008 on finding strategic responses to strategic challenges. As a result of the crises we have been going through since 2008, we have mainly dealt with the consequences of a situation that also arose because Europe did not have strategic answers to these challenges. To discuss this is time and space within the framework of the Conference on the Future of the European Union. When this conference was designed, the situation was slightly different. That was before the outbreak. It was thought that, starting during the German Presidency, it would end during the French Presidency to discuss the implementation of the existing Treaty of Lisbon. The priorities were a little different back then, and then the pandemic came. The conference did not start technically until May this year, according to the Portuguese Presidency. Germany dealt almost exclusively with covido. And given that we have reached an agreement on recovery, it has been successful, so that time for some serious debate is extremely limited. There are many questions at this point, whether this debate will be able to be concluded in any productive way next spring, is said in the French Presidency, which is the goal, and the timetable is thus set. It is not in Slovenia that it is concluding over the next half year, our task is to open the debate to allow everyone to express their views on how they see Europe, more precisely the European Union, in the foreseeable future. We wish that this is not just a debate between European institutions, although the very constitution of the conference is somehow rather bureaucratic in our view. It took a long time before the institutions reached an agreement between each other, who would participate in the plenary, who would not cooperate. All these structures remind little of the former Yugoslavia with various presidencies and limited mandates and so on. But as far as our mission is concerned, it does not matter, because each Member State can organise discussions as much as it wants. The agreement is that we all go this way, that this is not just a debate between European institutions, nor between national governments, necessarily, and that is our purpose, regions need to be included. The European region is something that brings great added value, allowing for the resolution of many dilemmas also for those countries that are only negotiating for membership in the European Union. The possibilities, including the institutional ones brought by the European regions, are one of the solutions to untangle the complex hub in the Western Balkans. So far, this has not been good nor has it been introduced into the debate. It is then very important that European think tanks participate in this debate, which have great intellectual potential, which usually remains in some published brochures, conclusions which the responsible never read. Slovenia will try to open this debate as part of our traditional pale strategic forum, where there will be a series of round tables with guests from all aspects of European political, cultural, civil society life. We will also invite former leaders of both European institutions and Member States, and those who have negotiated have failed with the Constitution for Europe, and then with the Treaty of Lisbon, who know what remains inconsequential. It is our intention, and we will do so, to make this debate inclusive, and to exchange views on open foreign and security issues, which are crucial to the European Union, if for the first time it wants to become a regional factor, the first regional factor in Europe, the neighbourhood and the Mediterranean, where this role is, for once, quite challenging, and especially if it wants to become a global factor in view of the current situation in the global world, with China coming as a major, with India as the largest, most democratic country, and with a view to global statistics, which shows that the European Union has seen itself for the past 30 years. Our share in the world market, our share when it comes to world trade, exports, patents, innovation and so on, is steadily falling at this time. However, we are facing the consequences of a poor demographic picture in the European Union, a demographic boom in our neighbourhood, a crisis situation in sub-Saharan Africa, where there are 400 million people living in total, who are increasingly preying on terrorist organisations with the only desire to come out of this disaster for the better. The logical solution is shown in the European Union, where fewer people live, and the European Union has a very simple dilemma, whether it will help these peoples in Africa to go to school, to establish a system where people will see the future, or to build walls and to set up maritime blockades on the Mediterranean, where these people will look for a better life. The European Union must discuss this and face the fact that only soft power here does not help. In Mali, there are some 30,000 soldiers of the peacekeeping forces from various Asian countries paid by the European Union to hundreds of millions, and none of them are effective forces. The debate on whether the European Union needs its army, whether it needs strong strength, has been going on for too long. In these last 15 years, for the first time, if the European Union is not expanding, someone else is expanding, even to our neighborhood, and we are only then dealing with these consequences at tactical level. It has turned out that if the European Union is unable to combine the soft and strong potentials of Africa, suffering and poverty will grow there. If the European Union does things only half the way it is in Libya, where the country is spreading, but do not worry about the security of people, so that they can democratically decide about their future, we can do more evil than good. It's similar to Afghanistan. It will also have to be faced with our responsibility because there has been an attempt to create a normal, democratic space with the possibility of respecting human rights, and when a few million people finally live free, we decide to withdraw from there. European media have stopped reporting on Afghanistan, but today hundreds of people die there. The Taliban are taking the country back, and we have to ask ourselves at our responsibility to do something, and then we forget about these people. All of this awaits us in the context of the debate on the future of the European Union. We are pleased that the issue of enlargement as a strategic response to the strategic challenges has been put back on the agenda. For the next half year, the Western Balkans and the question of enlargement to the Western Balkans will be on the agenda of the European leaders in Slovenia on 6 October and the Eastern Neighbourhood in the European Council in Brussels in December, where we now have three countries that have been stopped by the Russian Federation on the way to the right waiting room for entry into the European Union, and that is where they want to, soldavia, Georgia and Ukraine. If we now wait for Russia to return to Crimea and then talk to the Ukrainians about the start of negotiations to join the European Union, then we will wait 200 years. Instead of spreading the European Union, someone else will spread, and in the end we will be back in a situation that can lead to tragedy. A lot of things are open. We wish that the next six months will be a less and less important topic to take advantage of this option, which has been ensured that it is vaccine enough to be selected to defend this delta variant. If we have a severe fall wave of covid across Europe, then we are to blame ourselves, absolutely on our own. For all the victims who will, it will be necessary to ask how a civilization that is ten times shorter than what was already in force can, say, not only make a vaccine, but also try it and it is safe how such a civilization is not able to use it and instead see that schools are closed, that public life is limited, that people die after hospitals. The Conference on the Future of Europe may also have to start to wonder how we could have come to such a gap between the high level of progress made by European science and not so high a level of European spirituality, awareness and solidarity. That's what shows up at this point with a lot of uglyness, I'm sorry. But it is still time, and let us hope that everything will be okay and that, for the first time since 2008 for the European Union, there will be a time when it will be able to address strategic responses to strategic challenges, when we can also move directly or take some steps when it comes to the question of enlargement, when it comes to the issue of strengthening the European Union also with a combination of soft and strong forces, when we can say that at the end of the year that Europe is once again entering a path when it becomes a regional factor number one and when it becomes a global factor that can be really talked to other greats. As in all other cases, the role of the Presidency is limited. We must be aware that as many people as do in the wider French administration or in the German administration, so many people live in Slovenia. However, we have to do the same coordination work in some way, and it is impossible to do it equally intensively because it is out of the question. This also calls for proper decision-making on the priorities and strengths that are limited, to be directed where concrete and long-term effects are present. So much for that. I think there will be a few more opportunities when we present some dossiers sectorally here, where we too will have to adopt our national consensus, form our national consensus or adopt legislative solutions that will follow from European coordination factors, especially when it comes to building the European Health Union, because now it is the right time for us all to be aware of what unpreparedness can bring to such a challenge and to such an accident. I would like to thank you in advance for participating in these projects, which Slovenia is expected to carry out among the first, given that we are leading the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. Comrade Robert Pavšič, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thanks, finally. Mr President, what you have done at the outset is a grave violation of the 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, of course, you know perfectly well. But to be known by others, I will read it to you: "A Member who wishes to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, the procedural question or the proposal that the President should speak as soon as he requests it." I think I raised my hand early enough and warned you before the Prime Minister stepped in for a payphone so that they could let me do it, but that's another question. In fact, I have a business proposal for the Prime Minister who obviously has a major problem with mail raising, so I now publicly invite Mr. Janša to the hearing on 24 September at 8:30 p.m. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Comrade Pavšič, this has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Of course, the commission will send it by mail. [[…]] In order to save you the trip, I also invite you in person to organize more easily [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	This has nothing to do with it. Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	time or at least find enough reasons to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Comrade Pavšić, I give you a reminder. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going through a 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. May I have your attention, please? The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister and members of the opposition and by the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. If the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Minister must submit a written reply to him within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point they apologized for today: Jernej Vrtovec – Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Simona Kustec – Minister of Education, Science and Sport, until 17:00, Dr. Anže Logar – Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mag. Matthew Tonin – Minister of Defence, 15-17 p.m., Zdravko Počvalšek – Minister of Economic Development and Technology, and mag. Andrej Vizjak – Minister of the Environment, from 14:00 to 15:00. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first three questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez (John) Janša. He will be asked questions by Jerco Korče, Jani Prednik and Anja Bah Žibert. Ambassador Jerco Korča, you have the floor to ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	“Comparations with other countries will only be possible once the second wave of the epidemic has passed. I guarantee that after the second wave, Slovenia will be among the winners and among the better." That's what you said last October. You said in March this year: “Statistics will apply when the epidemic is over and things can be checked.” You announced the end of the epidemic on June 15th. And what do the facts say? We are second in the European Union by the number of confirmed cases per million population, we are sixth in the European Union by the number of deaths per million population. And let's look at another one of your forecasts, which is from this year's January. “If the supply of vaccines planned, implemented by the end of the summer can reach 70% of the population.” Facts. Summer's here. Thirty-three people are infested. After vaccination with one dose, we are at the bottom of the European Union, 22nd place. The fourth wave is forecast. Impeded management of the epidemic has tragic consequences. The effects on the economy are also severe. Many are in psychological and social distress. It's all connected. Better than managing the epidemic, there would be fewer consequences. We've warned many of you about your miscommunication, your summer sleep. Too late, too late or even too late. But to our common sorrow in your own arrogance, instead of running the country, you threatened people instead of communication and instead of serious work — what you're still doing — you tweeted childishly. You've been deceiving and building the image of a successful leader. That's why I'm asking you here today: Are you capable of taking responsibility and today publicly admitting that you have failed in managing the epidemic and facing the consequences? These consequences are felt by all people, all the inhabitants of this country in many other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for asking me how many questions there were. I think there's another question on the agenda that has to do with covido. This is a serious subject and some things will need to be decided in the future and also seriously discussed. At this meeting of the National Assembly, you also have many laws that deal with either the measures we still need to combat the epidemic, or measures that mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. What's been going on is all written down. The statistics are here, or you can turn them one way or another. Slovenia is many among the better, and many are not among the better; otherwise, it is on average when it comes to key indicators of success in the fight against the epidemic. I'm not gonna say pandemic. The pandemic's still here. With us, the profession has set certain criteria for when the epidemic is declared and when the end is over. Certain measures are still in force. We don't even work the line, nor under the numbers. Those who follow more widely know that at least another challenge awaits us. This time we have instruments, this time we have vaccines and it is up to us to use these instruments. Until we had these instruments, we couldn't use them. We are on the European average, we can reach 70% by the end of the summer, or if we don't reach 70% by the end of the summer, we will have everything closed, I say in advance. Also last year, I think exactly one year ago at the July session I made it very clear that if we don't have a warning app for infections that will be mandatory or that we will all use, we will have prisons in another wave. You were against the mandatory application, not to say what the information officer did. Then it was a dilemma to open schools, not to open schools. We were up against masks in schools. But we wouldn't be fighting in this part right now, because it's gonna be time. Also, Mr Pavšič, I have no problem coming to your committee, I certainly have more answers than you have questions. But if next time you will convene a meeting at a time when we remember the 30th anniversary of events where our people died, as it was at the Kum on 2 July 30 years ago, and this celebration was half a month ahead of schedule, then regardless of all respect for parliamentary institutions, I will always go to an event where I remember my roommates who then gave their lives to this country so that you can convene such meetings, not to such a meeting, because we can do this one day earlier, a day later, to also call and agree on a term that happens in all normal parliaments. And we apologized. My office sent an apology, of course, which you received. This can be proven. As for the answer to your question. Look, I'm admitting here that even though they worked hard, it didn't work out that you tried to make our fight for the epidemic as hard as possible, to use it to the end to throw away the government. You didn't make it. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I suggest we stick to questions and answers. There are no procedural issues at this stage. You have no right to a procedural question. We are in the stage of the question. I ask my colleague if Mr Pavšič wishes, I give you a second warning for the interruption of the session. [[talking to each other]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Pashovich, please calm down. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Fellow Jerca Korča, would you like to complete the question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Look, Prime Minister, the key to a solution is in people's confidence. The difference between a policy that accepts responsibility and seeks solutions and a politician who gets involved in manipulation is clear every time we hear words from your mouth. But let's just leave it at that. Let's go back to the facts. Each citizen is in charge of 20,000 euros. In the time of your government, debt has increased by more than 8 billion. To a greater extent, you know that it was your pre-election candy and not our future. The level of risk of poverty and also the level of risk of social exclusion has increased. One out of four students surveyed during the epidemic thought of suicide. Almost 90% of them expressed feelings of depression and anxiety. Hospital beds for children and adolescents in mental distress have been filled. Compared to the average between 2015 and 2019, 72% increased the number of calls made by young people thinking or threatening suicide. In children's psychiatry and paediatric UKC Ljubljana, the trend of urgent referrals has increased significantly since December last year. In March, urgent deployments were already twice as much as during the most burdened months of the past years. And these are also the tragic consequences of your incompetence, and unfortunately this is also the legacy of your government to future generations. And this is for you — what? Is what you said at the end, success, good work, success in running the country? What do these facts tell us?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	All these problems and the consequences that you've mentioned have been. Just show me one country that faced a pandemic where there were no consequences. If we're talking about responsibility, and we're talking about responsibility after what's most responsible, I really don't know if you believe that you'd be better off driving Slovenia through the epidemic, why you threw the rifle into the corn. We didn't tear you down. We formed a government after you resigned. We took over the mandate one day after you declared the epidemic on 13 March 2020. You gave us that responsibility. Or we could go to the polls in a chaotic state. Then there would be the consequences you listed. Look, we were not prepared to have empty warehouses of protective equipment, even many other countries had it, we weren't the only ones. There was no country in the European Union that was prepared for this. From Slovenia, we did not drive patients to Germany. But they're from the Netherlands. And before the outbreak, they had the best health system in statistics. Still, we did it. We had a lot of dead people. Yeah. Do you know where the most people died? In nursing homes. You haven't built one in 15 years. You didn't build one. For Metelkova 6, you've given NGOs more than all long-term care in nursing homes in recent years. But if you think it's possible for the government to decide at today's meeting, tomorrow we have new hospitals, nursing homes, as much as you want, critical medical equipment and whatever happens, then we live in some ideal world. And let's stop exaggerating. And, yes, we have another threat ahead of us. Possible fourth wave. At least now let's get together and do everything we can, and let's convince people to get the vaccine. Not now, however, to wait for as few of them as possible, how many will be dead as possible, how much problem will the government have so that you can criticize it. You have been doing this since 13 March 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče has the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	See, Mr Janša, Jerca Korča, born in 1990, you were already in politics. And don't keep looking for culprits elsewhere, because it's a good policy to take responsibility and seek solutions. And if anything, this country even in this [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	The moment before the threatening fourth wave still needs the solutions already in place, but it is not in sight. [[…]] But, look, when it's all the opposition's fault, I'm adding a few more facts. Is it our fault that you export your traumas abroad, destroy the rule of law, attack independent institutions, individuals, systematically undermine critical media, recruitment, corruption [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Emissary Jerco Korča, I have initially read you what you need [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Blurred, disrespect I come to a procedural proposal. [[…]] [[…]] Failure to respect human rights [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	take into account when drawing up a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	That's an explanation. And it's clear. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	No, that's not the explanation for what the question was.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	That you're changing our country's social model. [[…]] And yes, there is also one fact that in this Chamber there are numerous colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members who give this legitimacy. It is very important that we discuss in this Chamber why some have decided to give legitimacy and support, stand up, declare themselves constructive opposition to all the actions that this government is doing, and with all the consequences that it is causing. And the consequences are not today, the consequences will be felt by future generations. And that's worrying. And you, dear Janša, please move from those years to a future or to a start in the present and start acting responsible to this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	My colleague Korča, this goes beyond what you said in the question of parliament, even in the complementary proposal. You've used all the other things here that have absolutely no connection to your question, not directly. In view of the fact that you have not made a procedural proposal, I would also like to warn you about the abuse of the procedure. Procedurally, Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Mr Vice-President, I believe that you have not heard this comment from Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, but I am the one sitting here in the first place. I suggest to my colleague that she apologize to Mrs. Jerzi Korča, for this, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, that you comment, “Yes, this is pregnancy, the poor one who will receive it, and the one who will be born! ” — Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, which is higher than the surplus! [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	I'm asking for peace in the hall! [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	That's too much to say about a coworker's pregnancy! [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	I'm asking for peace in the hall! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	To mention the pregnancy of a colleague of Jerce Korča [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Colleague Hefferle, one moment! [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! I'm asking for peace in the hall! No one has given you a word, Anja, and I will not let it jump into words like that. If there's any problem, we'll clear it up, so there are procedural issues. A colleague of Tina Heferle [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I broke up because it was going the wrong way. But I must also warn you that you have exceeded the procedural proposal. The request for an apology is not part of the procedural proposal. I'm talking about using the rules of procedure, and this wasn't in your exposition. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Look, I know that under the Rules of Procedure I cannot request an apology from the Member, so this was not my procedural proposal. I wanted to warn you, Mr Vice-President, that you are listening carefully, because such comments from below the belt, if I may put it this way, are not worthy of a woman and of this house. My procedural proposal is, although the microphones are not included, try also to listen to the comments of Members and Members who flaunt across this hall, fly by and hear them. This is my procedural proposal to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'm listening, and if there's a shunder in the hall, I can't hear it either. I've repeatedly warned you to calm down so the speaker can be heard. However, I will end this procedural proposal game, because only those who ask the question of the Member State should be entitled to the procedural proposal, and the rest will then be resolved later on some other part. I suggest we not complicate the situation and move on. Anja Bah Žibert, I warn you, if there is a violation, I will give you a measure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Presidents, you can give me a measure if there is a violation, but I don't think you've warned my predecessor, for the first time, of the serious abuse of the Rules of Procedure and for the second time, of the lies that have been told. What was said is pure lies and deception. Please take a look at the magnetogram if anyone has said anything about it. That someone who is three meters away comments that I made some statements when everyone around me is wondering, look, it's more than just abuse, but it's literally attacking me and my credibility. That is why I demand that the Vice-President of the National Assembly apologize to me immediately. For what she said she was able to say, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Look, buddy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	I'm sorry, this is serious business. [[…]] I'm a mother, I've put through a very difficult pregnancy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Colleague Anja Bah Žibert, this is not an object [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	A very difficult pregnancy and something like that would never happen [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	procedural issues. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	I've been talking. Never talked. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Look, do it the other way. Procedural proposals are not just about dealing with who will apologize to who, but only about the application of the Rules of Procedure. Do not abuse or violate the rules of procedure for such things. Not on one side, not on the other side. I also suggest further that there be peace in the hall, that what is said may be heard, and that what is spoken may be heard. Jani Prednik has the floor to ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, Honourable President of the Government, one good day! Unlike before, we will go to the content that should be the priority of this national assembly. The public financial situation and also the level of public debt under your government, which you run, are greatly increasing. The budget deficit for the previous year was over €3.5 billion. The government you run and your government notes that it will increase by an additional 800 million euros this year. In the last two years, debt has risen from 65% to over 80% of gross domestic product. Of course, we can agree that there is a fundamental reason for this viral pandemic, which has required some large-scale state intervention, which we have also agreed on in principle by the Social Democrats. The fiscal world reminds us all, in particular you, that the state budget from January to March this year has created almost half a billion euro deficits, without, I emphasise, without codifying measures. The Fiscal Council notes, therefore, that government spending has nothing to do with responding to the epidemic. The government you are leading is, therefore, still further unrelated to this epidemic and unfortunately is steadily increasing the difference between budgetary revenue and budgetary expenditure. We are deeply concerned about this deteriorating relationship between the Social Democrats. For example, the Fiscal Council notes that budget expenditure, once again without the effect of cod measures, has increased by more than 6 %, resulting from higher labour costs. In doing so, your government, the President, is also reducing other revenue from the budget and other public cash registers. The new motor vehicle tax will make the budget of €28 million less per year. For example, the unnecessary compulsory retirement you have legalized in one of the pecapes will mean a few 10 million lower incomes already in one way or another. In addition, your government plans to introduce the so-called social cap and tax reform, which will be shared almost – pay attention! 350 million negative effects every year. The implementation of all these plans would mean that the state budget in a year, two, three will produce a billion to one billion and a half deficits. This is also confirmed by the Fiscal Council, the report of the Fiscal Council, which was published today. I suggest that all Members read it as well. That's why I'm asking you in the first part, Mr President: With what measures do you plan to replace the revenue losses you have caused? Are you planning to stop plans to further reduce the revenue of the budget on the basis of warnings from the Fiscal Council as well as other professional public? Why do you not treat your governments that you run with the same severity as you did all past governments when you were sitting in the opposition, when you requested the strictest form of fiscal rule to be enforced and you accused even the destruction of constitutional order at the time of the budget surplus before the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. See, so far governments have always had problems with one side of the budget. It was great to share, but it was less great to create. If we want to have a good public financial picture, then we have to worry about both salaries. Of course, there are also situations that are exceptional. We have both the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act to determine when such exceptional situations arise. This is also set out in European legislation and Slovenia is currently 100 % within the constitutional, legal and European criteria as regards public debt as regards spending and the current public financial picture in the country. We have increased public debt, we are close to 8% of gross domestic product, we are part of the euro area, the euro area average is 98% and some. We are 20% better than the European monetary union. Last year we had a 20% drop in decline as predicted by the European institutions. For this year and next year, we are forecasting one of the highest growth rates in the European Union. We are also currently among the first in Europe, we have one of the lowest unemployment rates, lower than in your government's pre-crisis era. And that's the answer to your question about where the budget money will come from. More people are employed, more taxes and more contributions are paid and less paid from the State Treasury for social transfers. Economic growth will be better, we will create more, and there will be more at lower tax rates. This is a very simple calculation, and this one is clear to everyone. Or we could just twist the numbers a little bit. Show me one euro area Member State that has not increased its public debt since last year. Please also list those countries that, like us, have improved their credit ratings at this time. During this time, Slovenia has improved its ratings in international financial markets and therefore we are indebted at record low interest rates. This is the first time we've ever issued a 60-year-old bond. So far, only a few of the most stable countries in the world have succeeded. So the person who lent us the money believes in Slovenia that it will also exist in 60 years' time to return the money to get the money back, at zero interest rates. We also issued a negative interest rate bond. So they paid us when we were in debt. For the first time in the history of this country. And if you want the latest information, for the unfaithful Tomaze, in 2014, we gave the state budget for one year's interest, I think a billion 100 million euros, next year this burden will be 600 million, 400 million will be lower, because they are lower interest rates because we have significantly better ratings because we are part of the euro area and where we have confidence in financial markets. To talk about how much Slovenia owed – yes, we did, but others did. The question is, how much are we, how many others, for real comparisons, and what is the price? The question is, at what price and how much the price of this debt affects prosperity. In 2014, when we had significantly less revenue in the budget, we paid more than a billion interest. Now we're gonna give you 600 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Comrade Prednik, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	President, I thank you for your answer. In one piece, I agree. I also separated myself from the money that went for co-operation and with which we also agreed on the Social Democrats. However, in the last period, you have also devoted money to certain tax reliefs. These reliefs will bring an additional minus in the budget, and we do not agree with the Social Democrats. I mentioned the Fiscal Council, which found, once again, I will repeat that from January to March this year you created almost half a billion minus without cod action. These are measures that are totally unnecessary for our future and which will make our public finances and, consequently, public systems suffer. If we have sound public finances, it also means well-functioning public systems and public subsystems. We've got a hole right now. According to the plans you have, the budget hole will be even bigger. Spending it all won't cover it. And I want to know: Do you have in mind any law that will compensate for this loss of income, since, after all, you may have learned that public health has saved us in the past year? Inside this epidemic, public health was the one that worked well and saved the country. Public health has its shortcomings. But compared to private health care, which is widely advocated on the right side of politics, public health was the one that saved the country. And once again, I understand what you've explained to me, but tell me: Where will that additional minus in the budget be replaced so that public systems and public subsystems, from public health to the public school system and so on, can work in the future? Because the hole that it is is is taking us on the path of bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Look, we were on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012 after your government. Back then, we were on the verge of bankruptcy during the economic and financial crisis. We're a long way from that now. Here we are talking about some fundamental economic legality. Yes, there were a few hundred million less revenues, not because we gave this money to cushion the cod crisis, but because this money was not in the budget because certain sectors of the economy were not working. There was no tourist season in winter and there was no income from it. Clearly, there was less money in the budget under these headings. Not only because we've been giving subsidies, but we've been paying for waiting for work and so on, but because the economy has also been operating and there hasn't been that much revenue. Where are we going to replace this now, not where we're going to be from? Where are we replacing it from? He currently works in Slovenia and pays taxes and contributions to more people than before the crisis. I mean, here the finance minister can confirm that he doesn't have empty cash registers. No, you're right, personal consumption here is the only growth generator because it stops at some point. The main generator of growth is the economy, they are investments. Over the coming years, we will use three sources of European funds, which are larger than ever before, including regular resources from the regular seven-year financial framework and from Just Transition, from the recovery plan, to invest more than Slovenia has ever invested in a comparable time. Anytime. This will create new jobs, better paid jobs. Look, it's not a week for any investment to be opened in Slovenia, more than ten million investments, from Lek to Bia separations, and novartis to Palome and so on. We can't even go to all the openings where hundreds of new jobs are being created, and the need for new qualified workers is now greater than it was, perhaps even in 2008 alone. That'll generate funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Comrade Prednik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for that answer as well. I believe that we have the same goals, but maybe there are only ways to achieve these goals slightly different, and this is a topic that we will have to discuss very quickly, so I propose that we vote on it by the National Assembly and vote to hold a debate on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July 2021, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Janez Janša, something about the so-called covid and what is before us, you have answered the first question, but perhaps I should remind you that sometimes people like to forget. A year ago, we were all kind of looking into science when we got to the right vaccines, and we knew it was some kind of light at the end of the tunnel. Today we have not only one vaccine, we have several different vaccines available. Thanks to good government organisations, we now have the opportunity for people to choose vaccines and decide which vaccine to choose for them. The government, along with its experts, also runs a very successful campaign We find good habits. As we know, mobile units have been set up and activated to assist in vaccination. Finally, in this way, people who live a little more remote are allowed to receive vaccination and therefore do not need to go to the vaccination centers. In short, a number of activities are aimed at achieving the necessary preoccupation. Although some information has been given before, it is not the most accurate and right to correct it. A colleague of Jerca's talked about 30%. 47% are those who are vaccinated for the first time and are full-year, 40% of those who are second. However, we still have a few things missing before the transplant. And that's the key to what we can do. There are doubters in every society, but it seems to me that it is very important that when we all somehow like to emphasize rights and seek rights, we also stop at responsibility – responsibility and solidarity toward ourselves and others. We've got a fourth wave ahead of us, so I'm really, really interested in: What is with this fourth wave, and does it actually come to Slovenia sometime in the fall if there is no interception? What have other countries that are already dealing with him done? What can Slovenia or the Government do here to avoid the serious consequences that this fourth wave could bring, given that it is a version that is expanding significantly faster, which is as much as 60% more contagious than the existing one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has your word for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much for the question, which is in fact essential, as far as our short-term future is concerned. The Delta version of the virus's crown is in Europe, which is 60% more contagious than the English version we used to deal with, and this has consequences. The vaccines are a largely appropriate response to this. Those who have been vaccinated twice, once, depending on the vaccine, whether they are over and once vaccinated, are protected to a large extent. Not so much before the infection as before the consequences, it's said before he gets seriously ill or dies. We face a situation when we have a cure or when we have a measure that helps, and we have enough. At this point, Slovenia has enough vaccines in both categories, both vector and mRNA, and in some ways not only us, but also most of our colleagues or fellow citizens in other countries of the European Union, we remain victims of some belief that someone else will do this if they do, because others will split up, and I will be among those 30% who won't need it, and anyway, the end of the epidemic will be why I would go if they were others. It is also true that the global, European and our profession so far have said that 60 per cent of the gap or 70% of the adult population is sufficient to stop the pandemic. As has been the case in the previous variants, this does not apply. And that's not the last one coming. In some Indian federal countries, the delta+ is even more invasive, and this will go on indefinitely if we do not inoculate. These decisions are now ahead of us. What I am about to say is not a government decision, it is not a professional proposal that there will be no more false subtitles but publication as is typical of some Slovenian media, these are the measures that are being discussed at the level of the European Summit on what to do. A large part of the last European Council was dedicated to the co-vid. Now, in some countries, as colleagues have informed us, they are preparing the following measures. In some countries compulsory vaccination of adults. Some European countries will adopt similar legislation as is now the case for children. They will also add covid to the mandatory vaccination against certain diseases and consider it the only solution. In some countries they are thinking about compulsory vaccination of certain categories: health workers, we do not have 100 per cent of the pervasiveness of health workers, God help, that is, for employees in nursing homes, for teachers, for employees in critical infrastructure and in care. There are different categories in different countries. Some laws are already in the parliamentary procedure or in the government procedure. Most countries stop free testing. So there's no more free testing. If you can get a vaccine, why would others who have been vaccinated pay for you who don't want to get vaccinated so you can get tested for free? That's really a question. And of course strict compliance of the PCT system in participating in events, regardless of various concerns. We will probably discuss some of these issues, too, and we will have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I don't think there's really any need for a complementary issue at all, because the Prime Minister was very clear. It is up to citizens and citizens to do everything we can to come together to a crossroads. However, this moment may also be used to make more use of the questions raised by the co-worker and how successful and unsuccessful we are today, it is more important that all policy should come together, including this national assembly, and we would call on citizens and citizens who have not done so yet to do so, to help all those vulnerable and thus help themselves and others, and to enable them to return to the life that we have known before. And one more thing. Previously, the predecessor said that people's mental health problems were great. This government is working. And for the first time in a long time, we also have a provision in the Emergency Action Act, which will allow us to have 30 clinical psychologists more in the field of specialization than ever before, and will also help you to improve the situation in this area, which, respected, is not the result of covida, is not from yesterday, is a series of years ago, and it is important that we take steps forward here. This government will defeat them, and we will surely defeat this and the covid together. So let's get vaccinated! And there's a call for the National Assembly to come together and invite everyone to be vaccinated on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Personally, I think this is a very good idea if all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly could appeal together to people to be vaccinated so that we will not be closed in the fall. This would be a major contribution to making life more normal in the fall or in the summer. In some countries that are very close to us — I have spoken with some colleagues — there are predictions that it will be there by the end of July. We currently have about 40 detected delta cases in Slovenia, each being followed. Now the number of infections has dropped so much that it is possible to follow the contacts in real terms, which means that the measures to infect can also be more effective. But within a month, all new delta infections will occur, which means there will be a certain increase. And all that helps is vaccination. Now we must decide whether we want to be back in the fall without open kindergartens, schools and restrictions, or whether we will act responsibly. I think the only thing that, apart from a common appeal, can prevent us from adopting some legislation where vaccination will at least be mandatory for certain categories, is that it somehow responds to these prejudices that are now circulating. A lot of people have all sorts of ideas about how it hurts and everything. Look, there are hundreds of millions of vaccinateds in the world, there are side effects like everywhere, but they're negligible, they're not just dying, we're not chipped. He knows the risks. However, this must be explained to people in some way. I don't think that's possible because of our pay phones. However, I think that national media can do much more here than they have done so far. So I'm monitoring things across Europe, and in some countries it's not the day that national television doesn't have a round table where people can call, where experts answer these questions, problems and prejudices that people have, and these things are cleared up. We don't have much of that. This should be the main issue now in all at least national media, which are part of the public system and publicly paid. There are enough experts, they can explain, only a responsible editorial policy and approach need to be implemented. At the moment, it is mostly in the media to organise a debate, a fair debate and respond to these dilemmas and fears, because this percentage of the unvaccinated we have is actually too high. A quarter of a million patients who cannot yet be vaccinated should be added here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this set of questions which have been addressed to the President of the Government, which I thank him for the answers given. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jože Podgoršek, will answer the question of Matjaž Germany regarding the issue of the Trnovi forest under the auspices of the Slovenian State Forests and the Institute for Forests of Slovenia. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. German! The problem of managing state forests in the Trnovo forest is also well known to us at the Ministry, thanks also to you and also to civil initiatives and representatives, which we also had at the meeting at our ministry. However, a few words may be broader. During the last 50 years, around 40,000 cubic metres were cut annually, with the exception of the period 1993 to 2003, when it was slightly smaller. The final plans reached or even exceeded the optimum wood supply; the wood stock was 322 cubic metres per hectare. . In recent decades, the Institute for Forests has also identified the surpluses of older trees in these forests, i.e. underage and young people, and the recent forest management plans have increased slightly and represent a total of 87% of the increase, which ensures the accumulation of growth while at the same time strengthening ecological and social functions. In 2014-2018, only emergency sanitary cuts of about 20,000 cubic metres per year were carried out in the Trnov Forest, which means less than half of the possible cut. This has led to an increase in the number of cuts in between 60 and 70 thousand cubic metres over the last two years. It is necessary to implement all the planned measures necessary for the introduction of the reforestation and then for the completion of the reforestation, so it is necessary to speed up the logging process with these fats. In view of the problem that has also been raised in the question of the Member, we already had our first meeting with civil initiative at the end of March, and in the presence of the Member, and we have agreed on a number of measures to strengthen the supervision of the operators of parts in the forests carried out daily by the Slovenian National Forests. The second conclusion was that part operators establish a forest order and ensure that forest roads are transient and transportable. The third conclusion was that the forestry inspection carried out control, increased control over the implementation of works in forests. And the fourth conclusion was that the local community would organise a field tour, where representatives of SIDG, our ministry, the Institute for Forests, forestry inspections and representatives of the local community would be present. In mid-April, there was also a field tour, which was practically 14 days later, where representatives of the civil initiative presented areas where they estimated that the urine was too large, but also at the Tolmin Forest Institute at the district unit explained that the works were carried out in accordance with forest management plans. In this part, I believe that the power in some parts was also observed by the practical holocaust, which was the absolute result of the sanitary sections. Vomiting has been banned in Slovenia for some time and only in the case of sanitary sections can such interventions occur in some areas. Let me mention that the forestry inspection in the six field inspections at 28 sites examined the documentation and also physically examined only the implementation of the sections. It has identified some irregularities, particularly road damage, and no forest policy has been established everywhere, in accordance with the rules on the establishment of a forest order, so that I will not read, the whole rule is long. This happened right after this field tour. Let me also mention that during this time the forestry inspection also received information from the Institute of Forests that all the shortcomings had been eliminated and therefore went to the end of June, i.e. one week ago, back to the field inspection and found on the nine sections that all the wood along the forest roads had been taken away, that the forest roads had been repaired, that the trains had been arranged. However, the forestry inspection continues with its work, reviews new sites, sections and hopes that others will be able to reach similar conclusions. With regard to the implementation of the public procurement itself, I must mention that it is the responsibility of the Slovenian State Forests to select cutters through the public procurement system. However, as I have already said, we have imposed on it a daily ongoing monitoring of the work itself in the Trnovo Forest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade German, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mr. Secretary, I must thank you for your involvement in this matter. I speak only for one reason to tell you that everything you have said holds that the representatives of the civil initiative are also talking about the dialogue going on. But I'm taking this opportunity to give you a chance if there's anything else to add to this, given that you've had a limited time. If not, I would end up with this until further notice and, as has already been said, thank you for your proper cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	I think it was mostly answered. I am very pleased that we have established a very correct and good relationship with representatives of the civil initiative. I also think that all the work has been going on since then in agreement with the local community, and this is certainly one of the important ways of working or recipes for the good functioning of Slovenian National Forests in other environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members, first of all to Aljaž Kovacič, who will ask Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku and Minister of Finance Mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Minister Rest is away. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister of Finance! Given the absence of the Minister of Economy, I would like a written reply. As you know, as of the last day of June in Ormož, more than 500 people have lost their jobs. In practice, unfortunately, none of your efforts, your visits, if I may say so, have changed for these workers. I certainly welcome the visits, but I also hope that in practice the population will have something from these visits. What saddens me personally is that most of these workers who have lost their jobs are expected at the employment agency as unemployed persons. This means that most of these people failed to find a new job or no solution was found to create jobs where these workers could be employed. On various visits, you said that money is not a problem in one way or another. I want to know: Why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not decide, which was also the proposal of the unions for Saffil workers to be exempt from the tax on pensions when they lost their jobs. If I am properly informed, there have been two cases in Slovenia in the past where the country gave up. I also think the Minister of Economy said on his first visit that money is not a problem. It is said that this amount could be waived by the State. Second question I have: How did the government decide to help investors? By what criteria does she decide who she will help? Is this a relationship, or how many employees will a new investor hire? If an investor comes and hires, I don't know, 5 or 10 workers, but before 500 workers have worked there, it's probably not in the interest of the state to have such an investor come, but it's in the interest of the state to have an investor who will hire as many workers as possible. Finally, the Prime Minister mentioned today that the biggest deficit was in the state budget when workers were not working. Even this logic is that someone who employs as many workers as possible is also good for the state budget, because more taxes will be collected and the country will also have more for various investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Spread out, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you so much for asking. I'll answer from my field of work. Minister Restoration will respond, as already mentioned, from his field of work. Here's two questions. I believe that it has always been done by law, which is why I do not see in the current legislation the possibility that a minister or government or anyone would be exempt from the tax on departures. It must be said that a certain amount of compensation is not taxed. So here, about this information that they're circulating, they came to me, and I said, "Tell me when, where, and who, in which cases this has happened." You mentioned two cases and then I didn't get an answer here. So now from this point of view, I don't know the answer here. I know the legislation and the Minister of Finance cannot do anything that is not in accordance with the legislation adopted by the National Assembly, of course you, honourable Members and Members, and the taxes are laid down by law. For all these areas or you have said one case, I am difficult to answer for just one case, but I can say in this regard when you said that money is not a problem and so on – we are talking about legislation. Even if the money is available, it must be paid in accordance with the legislation. As you know, this legislation is also changing and is now being passed into the National Assembly. This legislation, which governs this area, is a law on income, which has already been discussed in public. How to get new investments? Here, for the first time, it is also necessary to provide an appropriate profile for people to get new investments. Unemployment in Slovenia is among the lowest in comparison to other countries, meaning, in other words, that employment is large, irrespective of the crisis. Here I think this percentage is about 5 percent. Social services and social policy work well. Here Minister Cigler Kralj is available, among other things, European funds or European money. We are talking about the SURE money here, so that social security is ensured from this point of view. I must say that the latest data also show that social transfers are also falling or not increasing for these purposes, which in other words confirms what I said is relatively low employment. How to make greater investments? The Government's proposal concerning legislation, in particular tax legislation, is aimed at additional investments for digital, green, which is in line with Europe, to employ those people who have adequate education and are deficient professions. This is in the direction of greater relief from existing ones, we are talking about 100 % R & D relief, we are talking about investment facilitations, incentives for new employees. Some of these reliefs already exist. We're going to increase some. The government's working this way. It also expects an appropriate response from Members that this will happen and that people will actually have more money when they receive their salary. From this point of view also given that investors often want a certain profile of workers but do not immediately get it, I think we will also do everything here in connection with the educational process to keep this employment at a level that is now or even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	I am pleased, Minister, with regard to unemployment, that it is as low in Slovenia as you claim. But you must be aware that at the close of Safilo in Ormož, this meant 20% of the jobs in Ormož. It is said that 1 in 5 jobs was actually abolished in Ormož. The fact is, it has to follow the legislation, as you mentioned, but from the government, I would expect the minister to propose laws that will go in the direction of workers' assistance. In all these bakeries, we have adopted such and different laws. A few of them were also detained in the Constitutional Court, some of them even rejected by the Constitutional Court, so you had, I don't even know how many of them we had anymore, seven or eight times you had the opportunity to put such a form of assistance into the Beijings. When the opposition proposed laws, we recently had, say, a law on special needs assistance to children, the answer to the Ministry's representatives is always the same: your wish is good, but this law is not good, we will prepare a system. So even if they were to prepare him in the opposition, they would listen to the same thing. When I ask a question in the municipal world or at a state level, everything is always a business secret. That's why I want to know: Were you involved in any discussions regarding new investments in the Ormož congregation? You don't need to talk to me about who, when, for how long, but whether you were actually involved as a finance minister in discussions about new investments in Ormož.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I wasn't personally involved. With regard to this, honourable Member Kovacic, I do not think we represent ourselves well here. I wasn't talking about PKP laws. I have been talking about the changes in tax laws that have been sent by the government to the National Assembly and will also be addressed by this National Assembly. These laws allow and if they are adopted, workers will receive higher net wages on the basis of these laws. Simply put, all workers will receive higher net wages. Second. Additional incentives are given for investments, in particular for investments that represent digital and green, which represent a higher added value. Third. They send young people to stay in places where they live, not to go abroad. Four. They're addressing digital and green. Among other things, they also refer to the elderly as an additional senior relief. From this point of view, I would say that I am talking about what this government has already adopted, prepared, and sent to the National Assembly. These laws await consideration in the National Assembly. If adopted, they shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. And these laws mean higher net earnings for employees. These laws mean not only the higher net earnings of current employees but also those who receive any other income because general tax relief is simply increasing. In addition, they mean more to invest, they represent a greater incentive for those you have now asked about to invest and that this is deducted from the corporate tax base. They also mean less red tape. They also mean that they are referring to those who have education and professions that are lacking in Slovenia in order to make employment easier. That is said, honourable Member, before you, if you adopt these laws, then the workers and everyone else will have greater net earnings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ambassador Kovačič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Dear Minister, we're talking about unemployed people here. Someone who doesn't get any euros at the end of the month has a tougher net income. So, someone who's busy, I believe he will, but this is where we're talking about those who lost their jobs. My purpose of the speech on the pecapes was that you, as a government, could change the Income Act, not to mention what happened in these Beijings, things that had nothing to do with the epidemic, so that workers could be forgiven for their dismissals. It saddens me that, unfortunately, as Finance Minister, you were not involved in such an important matter. In view of the fact that this was a painful blow for the entire lower level region, to see that the construction of the quick road Ormož – Ptuj is delaying, according to the minister, that there are many unresolved answers, I suggest that we hold a debate at one of the next meetings on the response of the minister or ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next is Samo Bevk, who will question the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasku Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The pandemic has affected all areas of our activities, and this has also been reflected in tourism activities. As part of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a seminar was held to rediscover Europe on cultural tourism after the pandemic. The fact that investment in cultural and cultural infrastructure has many multiplier effects is therefore well known. Culture and cultural heritage are important in identifying Slovenia and developing the tourism industry, especially after the pandemic. The development of cultural tourism in Slovenia can also contribute to a faster exit from the pandemic crisis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture have placed reform and investment measures in the area of sustainable tourism development, including cultural heritage, among the priorities of the recovery and resilience plan for the period 2021 and 2026. Significant financial resources are also available for these measures. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary Vasko Simoniti, for the first time: What measures will you propose to include cultural heritage in the tourist offer? And secondly: What measures will include culture and the creative industry in the tourism ecosystem? Thank you in advance for the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you so much for asking. At this conference in Portugal, which you mentioned, I also participated. It also stated that cultural tourism represents and contributes 40% of all European tourism after some study, which is extremely important. Of course, we are also aware of this cultural tourism. Cultural tourism has been present for centuries and has been closely connected with what I would say, the curiosity of people and the cultural heritage that people want to see and become rich with other countries' behaviour. Last but not least, since Mr Bevk of Idria is one such city, Idrija is close to the Franjo Hospital, these are certainly points, as I would say, that they belong to such cultural tourism to the full. If I respond to this or partly already, however, Slovenia also represents a specific cultural tourist destination where you have this cultural heritage rich. In this respect, as mentioned above, the recovery and resistance plan for the period 2021-2026 provides for substantial resources, as you said. With regard to tourism, around 47 million, as we have foreseen, plus almost 9.9 million for digitisation, well beyond what the European Union wanted in this recovery and resilience plan to devote at least 2% to culture. Well, our share is, given the funds we've been granted for the last time, 3.2%. In this regard, funds will be spent or invested in a new investment cycle, where a whole series of cases will have to be restored, carried out, settled. We will also draw on these European funds here. Last time we had a visit to the Podravski region, where I looked at some things and I was very excited about the renewal and reconstruction of at least one part, such as the Borl Castle, which was also maintained and paid from these resources to a certain extent. And there are others. We've made the right plan. In these 47 million there is a large share for state monuments and a smaller share, 12 million, for monuments at municipal or local level. In addition, we will also allocate funds for digitisation. The digital component of this programme is also closely linked to this recovery and resilience plan. This is about e-mails and e-services related to the pandemic of this disease. It is a matter of properly presenting cultural heritage content, i.e. digitally, technologically. And this is where we're going to invest, like I said. We will not only draw from European funds, but also from an integral one. I hope that we will pave the way for optimism that tourism and cultural heritage, closely linked, will actually come to an end in a good and successful way. The link between tourism and culture is therefore one of the priority areas of programming at the Ministry of Culture. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ambassador Bevk, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The additional question is as follows. The former Government has prepared a Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or, as it is commonly called, a law on cultural euro. According to you, this law significantly complements financial support to support projects in the field of cultural heritage. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. How will the law be implemented this year and in the future, and which projects will have priority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much for the additional question. If you would ask me this question as part of your written question, I could present all of this to you in detail. True, the former government has prepared this law, but it has not accepted it, but it has been accepted by our government. I think we've also made a significant contribution here to the restoration of cultural heritage. I think the invitation was made this year. In addition, we went to reconstruction of cultural homes, which is an additional offer where people from certain backgrounds can say, not only culturally, they will confess, but where they can also organise a variety of things that will lead to how cultural heritage will also be represented and exploited, if I say so at local level. To this end, a considerable amount of funding was allocated in last year 2020 as well as this year. Certainly a large part is also intended for cultural heritage in cultural euro, but the specification and exactly all the projects listed within can not be listed at this time. But I'll be able to answer you in writing. However, I would be happy if you would ask me this question when you were asking this question so that I could easily present to you what you are interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. On July 11th, this Sunday, we will have a referendum on the Water Act. Usually, at least in Ljubljana, early elections were held at the seats of the District Election Commissions. This time, however, we are informed that this will all take place in Ljubljana at the Economic Exhibition. I know that some administrative units have had inappropriate spaces or too small and so on, but it seems to me that we are making it difficult for people here in some way, saying that we have to be as close as possible to the electorate as possible, not as long as possible. On 1 June, Dusan Vukko of the State Election Commission sent a notice to the District Electoral Commission that they must comply consistently with the provisions of Article 69(1) of the Electoral Law, which states that the District Election Commissions must designate special voters for early voting in the District Electoral Commission, i.e. in the constituency area. If everyone from Šiška, from Vič, goes to the Economic Exhibition, that basically means all those who are tanning and are in this constituency, that they will have to drive a few miles further to vote. And I don't even know if it's not a violation of the article of the law I said. So I'm interested in: Is there anything you intend to do, because perhaps this is not such a problem for the referendum, but it will be possible for elections when the participation is greater, and I do not see how so many district election commissions will function at the Economic Exhibition?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the matter. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Public Administration is responsible or responsible for the systematic regulation of the field of elections and referendums, but not for the implementation and technical and other organisation of elections and referendums. In accordance with the legislation in force, as you yourself have already said, the ZRLI and the Law on the Registration of Election Law, for which the Ministry of the Interior is responsible, the electorate is determined by the District Election Commission with a decision. The KLAs are independent, the State Election Commission also issued a directive to the electoral commissions for a concrete referendum on 28 May 2021 on the implementation of the referendum on the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements. This is what you suggested, and voters had to be determined by June 7th. The referendum on the Water Act will take place on Sunday, July 11th, when citizens participate in the general vote on the appointed voter, i.e. on the voter, where the voter is registered in the general electoral directory run by the MNZ, and the early vote is an exception. Voters and voters, who are a majority on this day of voting, may vote in a special voter early on the seat of the District Electoral Commission, but not earlier than five days before the day of the vote and not later than two days before the day of the vote. Voters and electors may vote a while ago only on the district election committee in which they are registered in the electoral directory, i.e. on the administrative unit where they have registered permanent residence. In Ljubljana this early vote on the referendum will be organised on 6th, 7th and 8th July for all 14 constituencies, as you yourself have found, in the area of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit at the Economic Exhibition, the entrance from the Vilhar Road. For an early vote at one location, they decided to make it easier for the organization - as it were, I am here to say - because the Ministry of Public Administration is not responsible for the execution itself - therefore because of the ease of organisation and better accessibility to voters and voters. What's this all about? As you know, we have reorganized the Ljubljana Administrative Unit and it is the new seat of all 14 circuit election committees on Linhart Road 13. However, the organisation of early voting for all 14 electoral thefts in this location would be more difficult by making the voter and electorate available. Since the headquarters of the Administrative Unit of Ljubljana are also operated on this location, during the week it is accepted by the parties, so they decided to make an early vote in the vicinity of the seat where 14 voters will be established. At the site, however, there will also be an on-call of the District Election Commissions and an administrative unit, which will allow customers who accidentally fall out of the electoral directory to obtain a certificate immediately and will not have to go after that confirmation on Tobacco Street 5. Free parking will also be provided in the Economic Exhibition Area. All of this is also published on the website of the National Election Commission. But you yourself have warned that this may not be such a problem here, but it is in the national elections. It's different there, though, because they're in the middle of the week, and I believe they'll find a better solution by then. This early vote is during the week and you know for yourself that there is now considerable pressure on administrative units. As it is said, I am simply explaining and interpreting why they have decided on this solution, which is somehow meaningful. But I agree, and for the state elections, they will, I believe, examine all aspects and find the optimal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	I estimate it's another centralization. All 14 of us will now be dragged to one place. If you ask me, it's only to make Mr Jankovic well again when he's giving away the premises. But that's what we're used to. For me, this is no better accessibility if people have longer than they would have had on their circuit election committee if they had to go a few miles longer and probably someone will decide not to go to the city center because someone remembered it, rather than to vote the way they have been elected so far. I think there's going to be a lot of confusion. People will get notifications, but if you've been going to Wič for years and years, for example, to the District Election Commission, you have to go to the Economic Exhibition. This free parking thing is like that. It was also said that there would be free parking, and there were a lot of problems with that. I guess that's not the main problem. It seems to me that this way we will deter even those who want to go to the polls or vote that they will not go. I'm saying, for the referendum, maybe it's not as important as it is for the elections. I think it still centralises things, but it does not allow people better access and the ability to come and vote. And that's all: Do you not consider this to be a violation of article 69, or of these instructions, which say that it must be in the constituency area?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you. I would not want to be a lawyer of the National Election Commission and judge from a position where I am neither a judge nor a judge, whether it is a violation now or not. I have to say that what you pointed out and the locations were set on June 6th, so almost a month ago. We didn't get any information from the Ministry, not formally, not informally, to bother anyone. As we say, rationalisation : centralisation, the border is thin. I believe that the National Election Commission will find an optimal solution for the state elections. However, since I am in charge of the work of administrative units, I cannot imagine how bad it would be if, for these three days at Linhart's headquarters, it was on the administrative unit that prevented other citizens and citizens from providing administrative services because of the referendum or that, as a result, those who were ordered would not come forward or anything like that. As it is said, this was the decision of the State Election Commission. In a way, I understand it, but I believe that they will find an optimal solution for the national elections, which are quite different because they are taking place at the end of the week, not during the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	See, article 69 of the law states: “The vote shall take place at a special constituency in the seat of the District Electoral Commission”. For me, this is a violation of this. In addition, they are not officials, but they are members of the District Election Commissions. But they really need to have things prepared first, electoral directories and so on. I don't know. I think this should be the way it was before, and this is a violation of this law for me, because it says that the vote is taken on a special ballot at the seat of the District Electoral Commission. Not everyone is stationed on Linhart, but this part is still here on Vicho, because we restored the administrative unit years ago and it's the same elsewhere. So we can't say there's no room.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Let's move on. I would like to warn you, Madam Member, that you did not ask for the debate to be held and will not be held. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister for Environment and Space. Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! I have two very exact and, in fact, short questions, which I also fully announced on Friday. So I assume that you had time to take a closer look at this issue and not least have you received them in writing on 2 June, when colleague Natasa Sukič put them to you. It concerns your statement you made at the time when the Law on Waters was adopted. It is said that the existing Water Act, which is in force at present, allows private villas, factories, to be built on coastal land, after that it will not be possible. Maybe it'll build objects of public use, these are objects that are intended for everyone. This is the difference between the previous water law and the present one. Given that this claim was then exposed to your side and in some ways also appears as an argument at this time of the referendum campaign, I am interested in: How many of these private villas and factories have actually been built on coastal land since the entry into force of this existing law? What government has taken a decision on the narrowing of coastal land for the purpose of building new factories and private villas, and what year has this been? I'm asking for this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. As far as private villas are concerned. I've got two shots here. There are six houses, villas, say, such one-bedroom beautiful buildings, namely the municipality of Slovenske Konjice. This is about parcels. I can quote 373/4, 373/10, 373/11, 373/2 and 363/3. It's about 2013. If I'm not mistaken, then the government was Alenka Bratusek. That's six objects. Then there is the interesting thing about Sava in Trboj, the Municipality of Šenčur, for 2016. If I'm not mistaken, then the government was Mira Cerar. Don't ask me about these governments, because you can see it from the regulations yourself. But if I'm not mistaken, it's back to the apartment house next to the watercourse. As far as factories are concerned, this is Meža, the Municipality of Prevalje in 2010 and 2017, the Petrol gas station and the production of Lek anti-infections. The factory, the gas station. Then again we have Lek, Krka, Novo mesto, 2013 the government of Alenka Bratušek. Then we have the Municipality of Celje, Etolova factory, in 2013. Plus, there's something else here. Dear Member, I don't speak of it. When I say something, I know why I say it because it's true. After such objects I do not say that there is anything wrong with these objects. [[…]] These facilities went through the Environmental Assessment of the Water Directorate and these facilities meet all cumulative conditions. This is said not to cause any problems in terms of flood safety, additional erosion, water conditions and water management objectives and water management plans, nor to allow the maintenance of watercourses or the implementation of an economic public service. All these projects went through the Water Directorate, through this serious professional site, they got the hook, and the government then confirmed it at the request of the Ministry of Environment. Once again, there's nothing wrong with these interventions. And that's all right. However, when we talk about development, including environmental concerns, nature, it is right to protect the coastal belt from year to year more. The purpose of the proposal for a new law is that the sale of these facilities of private use will no longer be possible, irrespective of the fulfilment of all these conditions, to place them in and to obtain permits for them, because they are absolutely not covered by the law. The law will only allow for public use facilities. But so far everything, including what I wrote, has been possible. Once again, the worst abuse I have ever experienced is because it spreads through social networks to privatize water resources with the amendment of the law, so that we will sell to Hungary what the law does not say with one word and is a pure fiction, a misappropriation of the first measure. It's a total deceiving to send some renaissance of construction to the coastal belt. It will also not be possible to build any facility on the coastal zone that will in any way exacerbate the water condition, which will have any effect on the deterioration of flood safety or erosion, which does not comply with the relatively difficult management objectives and water management plan and which would prevent the implementation of the economic public service. All this cumulatively must also be completed in order to be able to build public use facilities. Another condition is that it is a walled area or a purposeful use, where it is possible to do so and within existing settlements, because, as you know, you have recently adopted this electoral legislation, where you have divided even Slovenia into settlements, because electoral units are divided into settlements and Slovenia is federally covered with settlements. So, Your Honor, these are the specific answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Thank you for that information. I would also ask if you could provide me with all this information, including the cadastral municipalities, and the numbers of parcels, what you used to say, in full, what you have. Another thing about the novelty of the law if we touch it. Facilities for public use can be, I don't know, a bar on a coast or by a river or by the sea, on the shores, it can also be some kind of accommodation and so on. I agree that building houses so close to the coastal zone is not meaningful and acceptable, but in my view also building some accommodation capacity or a permanent bar or something like that cannot be acceptable and, from this point of view, can be limited to access to water, to rivers, to the sea and so on. If someone has an object for public use, it is also an economic activity, if you want, they can limit access to this coastal zone, so this is also problematic from this point of view. Why not make it completely impossible to protect the coastal belt and thus protect not only flood safety but also preserve the actual possibility of water regeneration or water purification in such a natural way? We know that the coastline or network is, in a way, a natural water treatment plant and so on. From this point of view, okay, these cases have been, you know, established in accordance with the law, which of course is wrong, but we have the possibility or very high probability that such cases will continue or will continue in some other form. They will not be entirely private matters, but they will still be in the hands of private people for public use.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Member of the Commission, thank you very much for the correctness of the question raised and the awareness that we are actually revamping a set of possible interventions to coastal land according to the situation. All that you have listed, including facilities of public use in terms of some accommodation facilities and so on, all this is possible today. That's possible today. It is also possible that what I have shown, including objects in private use, such as factories such as apartment buildings or villas, is possible. We are taking an important step forward because from this set of all facilities we are now allowing only objects of public use and not more objects of private use. Look at the relationship. We now have 30 regulations in preparation for the Water Directorate for new deposits. This says 30 regulations are still in processing, which have not yet been adopted, and they will if they do. 75 to 80% of the proposals concern private facilities, not public facilities at all. In fact, when we examine what else to allow, the possibility of additional construction of public facilities is so small and, in fact, very different, because they allow all people access to water under the same conditions and thus significantly improve access to water. If it is no longer possible to build private use facilities on coastal land, they will not be built and access will be possible everywhere. Facilities of public use, such as cafes, and finally some playgrounds, boats and the like, are intended for everyone. And it's right that people enjoy the water. Water is wealth, and I see no reason why, under the strict conditions that I have previously listed, we should not allow further facilities of public use. It cannot – once again, I stress very important and underline this, honourable Members and Members – intervene in the coastal land outside the area which is intended for housing or which is intended for building. It cannot happen because you cannot obtain a construction permit for this, and at the same time the conditions must be met cumulatively so as not to endanger flood and erosion safety, not to aggravate the good condition of the water and that this is not contrary to the water management objectives and that maintenance of the watercourse is possible. At the same time, in accordance with Article 38 of the Water Act, everyone must be allowed free access to water. These are the conditions under which the profession assesses the eligibility of each public service project. Only if all of these are cumulatively fulfilled will the Directorate issue its consent. So it's a really important marriage to the coastal belt.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	I think there is still some confusion about these things, but not on our part, but also in the general public. Minister, you say it's basically a marriage, but if we go brother-in-law, it's an extension. The existing law had seven points defining these exceptions, with your novel now nine. So you've essentially added the possibility of building public works that were previously gone, and you're keeping the old ones. So, I'm sorry, but those fairies and those things can continue to be built plus fences and so on. As far as these things are concerned, I think there's a lot of confusion here. Now I don't know which side, but given that many, including the experts from the construction college, and the representatives of the SAZU and so on, are engaged in the use of space, construction, including environmental protection, if you like, all point out the danger of building these coastal belts, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. As far as security guards are concerned, it is not possible to build outside the areas of the settlements and all the conditions listed above, see the municipal spatial plans, detailed spatial plans are adopted by the municipalities. If an appropriate constellation occurs, parcels that are not walled can also be turned into walled parcels without any major problems. I thank you once again for this information about the buildings. I would also like to request another written indication of these locations and these properties. But I think it's just gonna get worse with the new law. However, I believe that he will in fact be rejected at the referendum, so that he will not even enter into force. However, I am giving up the possibility of a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	It wasn't exactly the rules of procedure again, but that's the way it is. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Foreign Minister, Dr. Anzet Logar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! Since there is no minister, I will ask an oral question and also expect an oral answer when he is present at one of the next meetings. The circumstances or cases with Croatia should be determined and clear, following the Court of Arbitration’s judgment on the delimitation, but the Republic of Croatia consistently rejects the recognition of the Court’s judgment and communicates this in some way, even in a commutary, disrespectful way. At the time of his appointment or hearing, the Foreign Minister said that he would resolve relations with Croatia on the basis of quiet diplomacy, but somehow all of this escapes us. We are simply always and constantly put before the facts. We are concerned that Slovenia will not take advantage of the last asset it has to enforce an arbitral decision, i.e. the release of Croatia into the Schengen area, in the fact that it does not want to adopt this agreement and also in nature recognise these judgments and set limits. If we look even further, we see that Slovenia has not been played once. Croatia and Italy have agreed to an exclusive economic zone past Slovenia and have somehow kicked Slovenia out of or closed off the Adriatic. Dear Minister! I think that's a very important topic. It's about respect for the rule of law, it's about respect for agreements. We have a feeling, however, that, during the Slovenian Presidency, the Prime Minister will somehow grant the Council of the European Union a leave of absence to Croatia and confirm Croatia's acceptance into the Schengen area without itself adopting an arbitral tribunal decision. Therefore, we believe that this debate is very important in view of the exercise of our interests and the protection of what our ancestors have given us. Our moral obligation is to preserve and transfer the things or natural riches that the ancestors have left us to the next generation. It is therefore very important for us to discuss this and to prevent the Government from giving any leave to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek asked the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Brickler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister! Let me stress that we have already done a lot for the parents of children with special needs in this government. I am grateful to you. I am truly grateful to you, Mr. Secretary, for your obedience, for your actions, for all you have done for the parents of children with special needs. That's not self-evident. In the past, we have seen that they have been pushed to the brink, to the side, and you have excellent hearing for these people, and that is why I am truly grateful to you. In the first wave in Nova Slovenije we insisted on receiving the solidarity allowance of all parents of children with special needs. Similarly, in another wave, where we have arranged for free accommodation for parents of children up to the age of 15 in hospitals or without age restrictions when talking about parents of children with special needs. We then introduced this into the Health and Health Insurance Act and arranged it for permanent use. During the stay, parents will also benefit from a hospital allowance of 80% of the basic salary. In PKP7, we have ensured that all parents of children with special needs who receive an allowance for care have received a 100 euro higher allowance from the beginning to the end of the epidemic. With all these welcome measures, however, I have been working all the time to find some lasting solutions to help parents of children with special needs for permanent life. One of these solutions is certainly an increase in the loss of income compensation, which increased to a minimum wage five days ago, for which once again you are extremely grateful. With regard to the recipients of the loss of income compensation, there are still open issues with working conditions and rights under labour law, such as reimbursement of food costs, annual leave refunds, hospital stock and so on. Often, however, these parents of children with special needs also stress the need for additional assistance in the form of a third family to those who have children in the most difficult condition. There was no problem. It will take a lot of political will and discussion to help these children, minors, adults, and their families. As you can see, problems are intertwined between different departments and ministries. Parents and persons with special needs, as well as NGOs, wander from one another. They've waited too long for the right solutions. For this reason, a working group that could include all three ministries dealing with open issues and dilemmas in this area, one step at a time, I am sure that it has successfully addressed children with special needs. I, Your Honor, will be grateful for everything we do, what we will move forward in this direction. I'm aware that you have a busy schedule, then there's the presidency, the crown and the state of affairs at the Ministry because of your predecessors. But I want the voice of these children to be heard, and they will not be forgotten as they were in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of the Reberšek! Respected and respected! First of all, children with special needs are really one of the most vulnerable and helpful fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Their parents bear more heavy burdens than others, and I can tell you that they are close to our heart and at the same time close to the priorities of my team at the Ministry of Labour, I believe that in other ministries we are going to meet them in order to alleviate this burden, and in particular in support of the fullest possible life. At the Ministry of Labour, as you stated, thank you for noticing this, for taking an active part in our efforts to renovate the area of services for people with special needs, and we agree that a comprehensive and inter-ministerial approach should be taken, in cooperation with the other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Together, we are committed to taking such measures as will make it possible to deliver services more effectively in the training centres and training, work and protection centres, i.e. the CUDV. In preparation, if we are looking at the system level first, the national social protection programme for the period 2021-2030 will define key targets for people with special needs as well as other target groups. We have also embarked on activities aimed at reforming standards and standards, where a working group to create changes and complements has already been established. That is why, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are inclined to encourage your idea to strengthen this interdepartmental cooperation, because in our view it is only in this way that we could come up with comprehensive proposals to address the problem of people with special needs. Perhaps, because you just mentioned, I confirm your thesis that in fact the coronary disease has unfortunately slowed our systemic efforts to improve the situation of children and families of children with special needs, but on the other hand we have also tried to respond quickly and effectively during the epidemic through anti-Korona legislation so that the most vulnerable can also receive adequate assistance. On the basis of the intervention legislation, we have therefore provided reimbursement of the costs of supply in the event of absence from institutional protection services for persons with special needs for the implementation of epidemiological measures by operators. The right to pay for the protection of a person was also guaranteed because of the inability to visit the social security services of management and protection and employment under special conditions. During the time of the deteriorated epidemiological picture and increased infections, it was also possible to implement the protection and employment management service under specific remote conditions, or also at the locations of the work centres and training institutions on the basis of professional assessments on the necessity of inclusion. This year, children with special needs were unmistakablely involved in the training and education programme carried out by the training institutes. In the context of social work centres, we have also provided the beneficiaries with exceptional financial social assistance for cases of extraordinary costs during the epidemic. Even children who need special care and protection and their parents at the time of the epidemic have not been forgotten. In the intervention laws, we have thus established additional financial assistance for your parents, which you have already mentioned. At the same time as we tried to get as far away from this most vulnerable group as possible and to support it as possible, we have set up and, together with you, honourable Members and Members, have also been able to legislate or adopt a few positive systemic measures, which you, honourable Member, have also spoken about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Reberšek, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, in March I met virtually with representatives of societies and initiatives to improve the situation of children with special needs and their families, namely representatives of the Institute 13, the Association for the Assistance of Children with Rare Diseases of Villa Julian, the Society for the Assistance of People with Disorders in the Development of the Happy Legs, the Union of Sunček, the Joint Initiative of Parents and the Civil Initiative of Persons with Special Needs. At that time, we agreed to collect proposals on what needs to be done and improve the lives of people with special needs and their families and then agree on joint proposals and submit them to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Dear Minister, I am grateful to you that you are inclined to strengthen this cross-cutting cooperation, which would also open the debate on these proposals, in order to present, on the basis of the conclusions of the working group, a revision of legislation concerning persons with special needs. For your answers and for all the good you've done now and for all the good you will do, I am extremely grateful to you, Secretary-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like to add something? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of the Reberšek! As you said, we have adopted a number of systemic solutions in the past period, but we certainly have a number of challenges ahead of us, and we are also aware of that. In addition to matters already available to parents of children in need of special care and protection, I may simply mention that the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act provides for the right to extend parental leave, the right to work with shorter working hours than full time, the right to an allowance for the care of the child and the right to partial payment for lost income. Recently, the Government has also supported the proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, in which the amount of partial payment for lost income increased to the amount of gross minimum wage, that is a thousand 24 euros. We have received extremely positive responses to this change. Furthermore, the amount of the partial loss of income payment shall be increased by 30 % if one parent or another person nurtures and protects two or more children who meet the conditions for partial loss of income payment. Of course, the possibility of living in a hospital was also very positive. But we do know that we still have a few challenges ahead of us. I can say that the Long-Term Care Act, which has already been introduced into the National Assembly, will also regulate the status of existing family assistants, who will, by law, be the provider of a family member, will significantly improve the position of the provider of the family member. The proposal proposes that a payment for a family member’s supplier of 1.2 minimum wages should be increased by 50 % and that the supplier should provide for two family members, while at the same time allowing a further 21 day rest for those persons after a certain transitional period. This is how we go to these non-governmental organizations, which are doing invaluable work and you have previously listed, invaluable work for the most vulnerable, especially for families with children with special needs. Here we will always be on the side of talking to them, listening to them, and listening to them, and trying to respond comprehensively to them, taking solutions that will make them easier and support them in their lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Banko Simonovic will also ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! One of the objectives of the pension reform in 2012, by adopting PPIZ 2, was to stop the further reduction of pensions due to a reduction in the percentage of the dose laid down in the PPIZ Act 1. This reform has restructured the dose and calculation of the pension, taking into account not only the new formula of the dose, but also other factors such as acute age conditions, different evaluation of the age, a longer period of coverage of the years and so on. Despite the fundamental purpose of curbing the fall in pensions, the latter continued to fall. The starting dose percentage from 1 January 2013 was set for men at 57.25 %. With the amended PPIZ 2 in 2019 and 2021, the percentage of the pension dose is gradually increasing to 63.5%. The latter will be for men after the end of the transitional period, which we managed to halve with the last amendment of the law in full application in 2023 instead of in 2026. Thus, for every once-in-a-lifetime new pensioners, we have somehow achieved at least some decent economic security. Regardless of what they have done, a large number of pensioners who are convinced that they have been wronged for retirement under a lower rate than all who have retired. After 2013, we still have different rates of retirement, with a rate of 57.25% for men between 2013 and 2019, 58.5% for 2020, 59.5% for insured persons for this year, 61.5% for the following year, and 63.5% for pensioners for 2023. The difference in pension rates between all pensioners in all these years is thus up to 6.25%. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in the following: Do you think such a distinction between pensioners is acceptable? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. You're out of time. You will probably be able to complete your question below. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Simonovic, thank you for this question, which is extremely important and sensitive at the same time, because it is a pension insurance right, that is to say pension insurance. Initially, I would like to clarify and must explain that pensions established in different periods under different regulations, taking into account only one element affecting the amount of the pension, are not directly comparable. Various rules have in the past set different conditions for the exercise of rights as well as a different way of calculating their height. I have really devoted myself to this issue with my team, because there are also many initiatives coming to us, as you have stated, to you, as well as to the interim period when many men retire by a lower percentage. The pension of individual insured persons who have retired in different periods cannot therefore be directly compared, since they have retired or retire during the period of validity of completely different pension conditions, as well as a completely different way of determining the pension base and the amount of the percentage of the dose. This means that it is also not possible to calculate the amount of their rights on the basis of the currently established metering scale, as a number of new issues, such as whether the rights of the new dose user should also meet the conditions laid down in the current law for the acquisition of this right, and whether their pension period, the pension base, should be recalculated on the basis of the most favourable average basis for the longer period of successive years, would be necessary to calculate the amount of their rights on the basis of the currently established scale, as well. It should also be noted that, during the different periods in which different legislation was in force, also the valorisation factors for the calculation of the basics of previous years in the calculation of the pension base were determined in a different way, which also affected the final amount of the rights calculated. This means that the dosing scales determined according to PPIZ/92, PPIZ-1 and PPIZ-2 and PPIZ-2G are not directly comparable. In spite of this, it can be estimated what that proposal for a proportionate increase in remuneration would mean if such an increase would only apply to male insured persons who have exercised the right to a pension in the years 2013 to 2020. In this respect, it should be noted that these insurers are also not fully comparable, since, in accordance with PPIZ-2, the calculation of the pension base was subject to a transitional period between 2013 and 2018, i.e. the period taken to calculate the pension base increased from 19 to 24 consecutive most favourable years of insurance for the insured. In addition, between 2013 and 2018, men were able to retire at a lower retirement age, since it was only in 2018 that the last transitional period for the increase in retirement age had finally expired. Despite this, an estimate of the increase in expenditure can be given, which is probably what you wanted to ask me in the second indent of your question. On the assumption that in the last seven years before the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2G, approximately 36,000 male insurers who would have increased the percentage of the newly established ZPIZ-2G pension fund in the last seven years, with the proposal of Mr Simonovic, would have increased their pension fund expenditure by approximately EUR 200 million over the next four to five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer. To the second and third questions that I have prepared in writing for you, you have somehow answered me. I am of my own opinion, and I understand that under different conditions they have retired differently, but I believe that if someone has paid into a pension box for so many years and so many years, it would seem to be somehow equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In this desire or understanding of what you want to say, we are together. The fact is, together with the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we have devoted a great deal of attention to this challenge. It is precisely what we found in the first part of my reply that things are not completely comparable because different conditions were in place, different valorisation factors and different respects for the most favourable times, so that it is not necessary for all those who have retired during this transitional period to be effectively damaged compared to those who have retired since 2018 or now. In addition to what I explained in the first part of the questions, I might add that in the last decade, in the field of coordination of pensions by the legislator, there have been several different interventions in the way that pensions or pensions have not been regularly coordinated as they should be in accordance with basic legislation, or that extraordinary harmonisation has been carried out in addition to regular harmonisation, we have also witnessed this in the past year. This also raises the question whether pensioners have been reduced in regular coordination, and should be in compliance with basic legislation, deprived or retired during extraordinary coordination, in a significantly better position than they would have been if only regular harmonisations had been carried out. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has prepared calculations on the basis of which a comparison is made between the percentages of the reconciliation of pensions which should have been made after each applicable pension and disability insurance law since 2010 and the actual reconciliations carried out under this law or the intervention laws which have restricted or prevented harmonisation under the district law. The beneficiaries of pensions established from including 2012 onwards, however, are in a more favourable position following actual harmonisations than in the case of the harmonisation of pensions under the regional law. In this regard, I would also like to point out that any increase in pensions after 2013 and up to 2020 would bring further higher pensions to this percentage adjustment account, even though these pensioners have received extraordinary harmonisations of between 1% and 4.2% in one way or another. Therefore, the harmonisations with which the issue of non-coordination was primarily addressed only by those pensioners who were deprived or whose regular harmonisations were lower compared to those which should have been carried out in accordance with the basic legislation. Of course, our collective leadership is a worthy pension. I think we are proving that this government is also following this objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	The next one is mag. Branislav Rajić. He will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anžet Logar, who is absent, so I ask the Member to also say whether he wants a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is understandable that the Minister is absent, but I will still raise the question, because I believe that the Foreign Minister knows well that as many as two thirds of the members of the European Union, at a ministerial meeting in Luxembourg, expressed deep concern about the new disputed law in Hungary, which represents a grave form of discrimination and stigmatisation of members of the LGBT community on the basis of sexual orientation and sexual identity, all under the pretext that it is child protection. In view of the inclusion of this law in the framework of measures against pedophilia, pedophilia is actually trying to connect with the LGBT community. 18 signatory countries, not Slovenia, have called on the European Commission to act with all tools to ensure compliance with European legislation. As a result of this law, Belgium has also called for financial sanctions by the European Union against Hungary. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced measures because of the Hungarian law, which she described as a disgrace and a contradiction to the fundamental values of the European Union. It says that it will use all the powers of the Commission to safeguard the rights of all citizens of the Union irrespective of their sexual orientation. On behalf of all reasonable people, I stress that there is no room for homophobia in the European Union, so Slovenia's accession to this declaration would be a real step towards increasing the credibility of our country as advocates of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In particular, now that Slovenia holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Do you agree with the joint statement of 18 Member States of the European Union and the condemnation of Hungarian legislation against the LGBT community? Why did the Republic of Slovenia not join the said joint declaration? What's not in this statement? Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not respect the Tria Presidency programme, where it is particularly stressed that the tripartite Presidency is committed to integrating all policies, including equality and gender rights and LGBT persons, and to ensuring equal opportunities for all and preventing all forms of discrimination? Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia press our country for an iron curtain, for which even in the days of the former common country it has never actually stood? Why are we being pressured by those countries of the European Union that are known for violating and limiting human rights and fundamental freedoms? Why is Slovenia on this map as some kind of border cancer of human rights? Has the strategy of Slovenian foreign policy changed, that we no longer belong to the core Member States of the European Union, that we no longer pursue advanced and democratically more developed countries? The border between whether or not we should be ashamed of ourselves in front of the world is thin this time and is in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He'll have the power to put us on the right side [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	I'm afraid your time has run out. Mr Member, you did not tell whether you wanted an oral or written reply at the next meeting. Get up, all right. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! In 2008, Krka d.d. purchased land in Krskem and in the following years, along the Sava River, in the middle of the city, built a facility for the production of pharmaceuticals, which they opened under the name Sintez 1 in 2015. It employs about 60 people. In the preparation phase of the spatial documentation, consent was given to this investment by the Municipality of Krško and the Krajevna community of the town of Krško. In 2019 we were only able to find out from the newspaper Posavski obraznik that Krka is also building a large warehouse of dangerous substances at the site. For this warehouse, one of the famous environmental organisations informed me, citing: “It was one of the largest hazardous substances warehouses in the European Union, for which the investor, very likely thanks to politics, did not need to obtain environmental consent.” End of quote. This year we also learned from the media that Krka intends to significantly increase production in Krka. In the context of € 160 million worth of investment, it is also intended to cover largely the relocation of environmental risk of production, with some 160 employees from the New City of Krk, with a total of 460 employees. According to our information, this project is expected to receive a building permit in June, while the investor is still waiting for an environmental agreement. It is interesting, however, that the municipality and the local community of Krško no longer have the possibility to participate in the process because it is supposed to be the same activity, an activity for which consent has already been given. This is despite the fact that there is a six-fold increase in production, which will result in a significantly higher quantity of hazardous waste or solvents, waste industrial waters and other environmental risks. Already data that the amount of waste technological water from the current 15 m3 per day will increase to 210 m3, well illustrated, what an increase this is. As a result, the Council of the Krajevna Community of Krško estimated that the data relating to the Krka complex were not the same as were originally presented to the public and local communities. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: At what stage is the environmental consent procedure for Synthesis 2? Has the Krška Nuclear Power Plant issued its consent yet? Do you think it is normal for the local community to remain without the possibility of participating in the process of obtaining appropriate permits, even with such increased hazardous material capacity in one place and potential environmental risks? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	I'm afraid we're out of time. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. The answer to the first question is as follows. For the construction of the Krka Syntez 2 complex, the Ministry of Environment and Space of Krki issued a building permit in an integrated process. The decision was issued 4. 6. 2021. An environmental impact assessment has also been carried out in the integrated process and the building permit issued includes a decision to meet the conditions for the issue of environmental consent. As far as you know, in accordance with the Construction Law, the process of environmental assessment and the issuance of a building permit is combined in an integrated procedure. So, it's about both things and you're wrong to say that the environmental consent process has not yet been completed. There are also positive opinions from all the relevant opinion-makers, including the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety, which also took into account the opinion of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which gave its positive opinion. This is not to say that we would have any concerns at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It's about another question. The local community has been involved in the integrated process and has also issued an opinion in this procedure on the compatibility of the construction in question with the municipal spatial acts which conclude that the intended construction is in line with the provisions of the municipal detailed spatial plan. For the spatial act governing the area was also adopted by the Municipality of Krško. The Ministry of Environment and Space also made all this public in accordance with the building permit in the integrated procedure, namely, the public publication was between 5. 2. and 8. 3. This public segment also included an invitation and an invitation to the notification of foreign participants, which was notified only by the Union of Environmental Movements, which also participated in this process. I still have no information on the legality of the building permit. From everything I tell you that the procedure was conducted transparently, that everyone you mentioned gave positive opinions, the local community obviously did not comment at all in the context of the public hearing and, of course, it is difficult to post the festivals to comment on some objections that do not stem from the papers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	All well and good, but I want to know where and when it was published at this time, since 5. Two to eight. 3. You told me it was four. 6. 2021 environmental opinion issued, right? Now I'll tell you. At a meeting of the municipal council on 17. 6. However, the same person said that they do not yet have this environmental consensus. And that's 14 days past, so I don't know why it happened or if they're not quite familiar. Or I'll keep it that way. True, they act stepmotherly, we all know them, they think they're the greatest giant. In Krška, Posavje, we both come from there, we have a nuclear power plant that regularly informs local media on local television. Do you know what Krka told us? Come to us in writing and we'll give you some explanations if you need anything. As you said, the National Community of Krško, indeed, gave consent to Synthesis 1, for Synthesis 2 did not give it. This shows exactly how stepmotherly this great giant of ours behaves. Once again, I ask you to examine this environmental opinion, given that the nuclear power plant also had to give consent, it is said that this is a thousand-foot circle that covered the nuclear power plant, and there are residents of Krka in blocks where the circus is 3,000 in one place, closer to this facility than the nuclear plant. Here it seems to me that it is not right on the part of Krka that because they then leased this land, then they will build something inside and work without knowing that the local community could make any comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	According to the Aarhus Convention, the Ministry is obliged to publish, publicly publish any such role as an investor, and it has also published, as I said, between 5. 2. 2012 and 8. 3. 2021 on the eGovernment websites where this is usually done and on the websites of the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is an escaped procedure, this is done in any other case, and even in this case it is. No one has responded to this publication, a one-month publication, except the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia, as I have already said. It is very difficult to understand that someone on the municipal council spoke something that had the opportunity to speak officially in the process of issuing a building permit. Once again, in the integrated process of issuing the building permit in force since mid-2018 – this has been established by the previous Government and the previous National Assembly – the integrated issuing procedure is such that it combines both the environmental assessment procedure and the construction permit procedure and is in fact decided on both matters. That was done with four. 6. when the building permit was issued. Whether this building permit is already legally binding or not, it is said whether the party has exercised the right to appeal, I do not have this moment and probably not because it is less than one month or the question of when these decisions were served. I assure you that the procedure has been conducted transparently, legally, but I cannot comment on the actions of the applicant or the applicant for the building permit.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for the Defence of Magi a question. Matthew Tonin, absent from 15 to 17 hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A nice greeting to all present, and a greeting to the guests from the ministries! I would like to ask the absent Minister of Defence a question regarding the completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces. That is, at the time of your ministerial term, the outflow of Slovenian Army soldiers was kind of a constant, so it has been for almost a decade. What has fueled the long-standing bad situation in the Slovenian Army is no longer so important. If we look ahead, as a member of the Defence Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I am interested in the following: How is it with the completion of the Slovenian Army and the regulation of working conditions for soldiers, soldiers, officers and officers? 15. 5th, on the day of the Slovenian Army, the Minister of Igu said, quote: “There is modernisation ahead of us, which means great responsibility. We must successfully bring this modernisation to an end, and modernisation can only be successful if we have the resources and the resources provided.” End of quote. It is commendable that good solutions have been proposed in this Government for the Slovenian Army, such as the Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, the new Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, and the Regulation on Voluntary Service of the Military Service has also been adopted and so on. I am pleased that some of the good proposals and initiatives of the SDS Group have also been taken into account. In the end, I also want to know: So how are we doing today, what are the numbers of soldiers and other members of the Slovenian Army? Please have the Ministry answer me in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will ask Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! It is not new that Slovenia still does not have the names of two Delegated Prosecutors, so I will not hold back today in this context. However, it is a new fact that these two unnamed candidates, who were confirmed in the selection procedure and who were not elected by the Government, sought their right in the Administrative Court. And the new fact is that the Administrative Court rejected their action, not rejecting it, but rejecting it for a simple reason – because these two candidates did not get to know the decision of the Government that this government had essentially brought to justice the proceedings concerning the selection of delegated prosecutors. How does my question touch you, Your Honor Minister, who is responsible for this department? First of all, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: When will you serve the decision to dismiss or repeal the procedure for the selection of delegated prosecutors also those two candidates? In fact, both you and I both know well, I hope that in every case where someone is competing for a job with the employer, every unelected candidate is entitled to a notice of non-choice, to which he then has the right to some judicial protection, to an objection, to a complaint, whatever. These two candidates have been deprived of this, it is said, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Justice, which you run, does not give them this decision, by which you annulled the procedure. The Administrative Court has made it clear that an action can be brought before the Administrative Court after the act to which this action relates, so this is clearly the decision of the Government to annul the proceedings and therefore they have been unsuccessful at the start. The Administrative Court has decided that the action is not a final one, I believe that you know the term, dismissed the action, the court of content did not even judge. And why? Once again, because the Government has decided that the decisions will simply not be served by these two selected candidates, although they were part of the procedure, they were parties to the procedure. In short, I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary, when are you going to make this decision? I also want to know: When will you allow unelected candidates to exercise legal protection, as well as the Constitution? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Member, first of all, thank you very much for your question! The Ministry of Justice is 1. 7. Thus, on the day we took over the Presidency, the Governing Court’s decision on the legal dispute led by these unelected prosecutors was received. As you have said, the court has decided that the action and the request for a provisional order are dismissed because the defendants have filed an action in advance because the contested act has not yet been served with them and therefore does not have the characteristics of the finality. However, the legal nature of the decision of the Government was not defined by the Court in the decision under consideration, since this definition was not relevant for the decision under consideration. Therefore, the Court did not assess the content of the decision of the Government because the procedural assumptions were not met. However, I must say that the court in its decision explained to the plaintiffs that by means of a plea of silence, the authorities may request the issue or service of an administrative act. This decision concerning the rejection of the action and the decision on the costs of the procedure shall be subject to appeal within 15 days of the service of the written cancellation of the decision. As regards the decision received, the Ministry shall examine the decision of the Administrative Court and, in view of this decision of the Court and its explanation, and in the light of the need to ensure the fullest possible functioning of Slovenia within the framework of enhanced cooperation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office system, shall also publish a new call, in accordance with Articles 71 and 71 of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which is foreseen this week. With regard to the very service of the decision, as you yourself said, the government has decided. I cannot actually comment on this, because it is within the power of the Government, which has also adopted this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Mr. Secretary, I'm terrified that you dare say you can't comment on this because the government has decided to do so. You are a member of the government, you are now a representative of the government, and you are obliged on behalf of the government to express your position. I understand that it is not in the Government's interest to pass this decision on to both unelected candidates, because then we would have the right to a remedy, a legal remedy. And I have already said, Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that everyone is provided with a remedy. You, the Honourable Minister, who is part of the Government, by not passing a decision repealing the procedure where these two unelected prosecutors were essentially a party to the proceedings, thereby violating the direct provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and preventing these two unelected candidates from exercising legal protection. You're saying you have the possibility of an action for the extradition of this administrative act. Yes, of course, but where did we come from, if by your logic, by the logic of the government representatives, by your logic, Mr. Minister, for all we have the right to, we have to get through this right through a lawsuit? And complain there and file a complaint there, that's all you have to say! I simply do not understand how you, as the Minister of Justice, who should know the rules, do not understand that in this case an administrative procedure has been carried out, the Government has taken a decision in the administrative procedure to repeal the selection procedure and you are obliged to inform the parties to the administrative procedure of a final act. Then we would have the right to appeal in court. Can I have a comment, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. As I have already told you, we are now talking here about the legal nature of this act, but we must be clear that the court has not actually defined the legal nature of this decision which the Government has adopted. In this regard, I have already explained to you that this has not been substantively judged. But the law allows for action in the case of the silence of the body, and they have also been instructed by the court of the defendant. As far as this is concerned, let me tell you that we stand firm behind the system of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and that is why we are also endeavouring to appoint the Delegated Prosecutors as soon as possible. In this regard, a new call is expected to be issued as soon as possible in this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Of course, I have a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate on the Minister's response. For when a representative of the Government starts to speak and to call on citizens to use such or other complaints, complaints and so on for their pubes, and at the same time he is moving forward with regard to the nature of the legal act – Mr Minister, I am sure that you are well aware that this was an administrative procedure and the issue of an administrative act. And the court, yes, in this decision on the rejection of the case, of course, is not substantively defined, of course not, nor did I claim this, but by the nature of the matter, logically and given the knowledge that you are going through it, should know that it is a decision to annul the selection of two candidates for delegated European prosecutors for administrative proceedings. And in the administrative procedure, the acts must be served on all the parties to the administrative procedure. My question was not whether Slovenia was seeking to establish the European Public Prosecutor's Office or not, whether you, as Minister of Justice, as a representative of this government, were trying to ensure that all citizens were treated equally before the law. Again, these two unelected candidates did not receive a decision by the Government to annul the procedure in which they participated. More than obviously, the government has also taken the view that this decision will simply not be served by the two unelected candidates, nor by the State Prosecutor's Council, nor by the shareholder in this proceeding. And once we get to the rule of law, that the government will simply decide, which has decided that something is not being done, that laws are not being respected, that when it fits, I am talking here specifically about the General Administrative Procedure Act, when the Government decides that a decision or some act that it adopts is not as hot as the law says, and then we are on a very dangerous path. In your presentations as a candidate for a minister, you have also advocated that you work in accordance with the law. You advocated ensuring that a legal order would be established in our country. Today you are more than obviously saying that this is not because you are admiring the legislation that is in force in Slovenia and you are becoming aware of the nature or nature of this act adopted by the Government, or you are aware of this decision adopted by the Administrative Court. This is a much broader debate, so I insist on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Slovenia has recently been added, in Colombia, Ethiopia, Chad, Myanmar, to the list of countries where respect for fundamental civil liberties has recently fallen. Civicus Monitor, an online platform that monitors the state of civil liberties in 196 countries, including freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, has presented a new list of countries it is observing. As they agreed in Civicus, measures to curb the pandemic in Slovenia are also a pretext for restricting civil liberties, as civil society organisations are increasingly the target of attacks, as are journalists, while freedom of the media is falling. Since the launch of the mandate, the government has been using covid-19 as an excuse for efforts to adopt measures that affect fundamental human rights. Civil society organisations are receiving a reduction in funds, and the government justifies its decision by arguing that this money will be diverted to the conversion of the pandemic. “Organisations are constantly victims of public disgrace by the state,” said a public statement. The right to peaceful assembly is also at stake, as the government has completely banned protests during the pandemic. In addition, the media noted that the conduct of the Government’s Development and European Cohesion Policy and the exclusion of NGOs in participating in public calls put funds at risk through the call of the Norwegian financial mechanism and the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area, the donor countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, which Slovenia could obtain. This is why Slovenia is at risk of blocking 34 million euros. In view of the above, Mr. Secretary, I ask: How do you comment on the assessment of the Civicus Monitor online platform on respect for human rights and freedoms in Slovenia? What do you think caused this sudden fall? How and by what measures will you, as Minister of Justice, ensure the respect and protection of the fundamental human rights of our citizens and citizens? How and by what concrete measures will you, as Minister of Justice, protect the rule of law in Slovenia, protect NGOs and the media and prevent policy interference with independent institutions? How will our country regain its position and reputation in the field of the rule of law and in the field of the protection of human rights and freedoms? The latter is of interest to me, given that we have started with the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and in view of all these criticisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Dear Member of the Magi. Hot, thank you for your question. I believe that it is imperative that we all strive to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as the rule of law and the rule of law. Of course, as Minister of Justice, I can only take care of this in the context of my work areas, the ministry, which includes in particular the legal regulation of the functioning of the judiciary, the institutions for the cessation of prison sentences and so on. As far as my work areas are concerned, interventions during the covida-19 epidemic were carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation and also in agreement with the judicial authorities, here I am thinking mainly with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The essence of the protection of rights, namely the provision of judicial protection, in particular through the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia or through the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is also ensured. However, I must point out here that every minister in his field of work is responsible for the state of human rights, the rule of law and the rule of law, within the framework of his or her sphere of competence. Personally, I'm not in any superior or supervisory position to other ministries. My ministry can only cooperate with other ministries on the development of human rights, on the study, planning, the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. At the Ministry of Justice, I must say that we are constantly trying to strengthen our awareness of the importance of mutual cooperation and of working towards improvements in the field of human rights protection. So I am not systematically responsible for the regulation or operation of NGOs because you asked about freedom of association, and other independent institutions and other government services and so on. However, I am, of course, responsible for the functioning of the judicial authorities, for example, the independent institution of the Ombudsman, and I also certainly respect the independence and independence of this constitutional body. Just last week, you are probably also aware, the Ombudsman submitted his annual report on the state of human rights in Slovenia for the past year, 2020, which is expected to be dealt with by Members and Members in autumn, together with the government's responses to the recommendations and proposals made, also refers to those relating to the action of state authorities during the covida-19 epidemic. I think it will then be an opportunity and also a time to determine in the dialogue whether certain improvements or corrections are needed if these dilemmas also reflect the Ombudsman's annual report. The debate on the views and the price of Civicus can, of course, also be opened. Let me say that, as part of the Presidency of the EU Council, we will certainly first of all advocate respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular in the framework of legislative dossiers and other ongoing projects in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I am requesting an explanation because I do not think that all my questions have been answered in full. First of all, I agree with you that you are not some superminister, in a particular case of the protection of the rule of law, it is clear to me that every minister in his particular field is responsible for the legality of procedures in his own field. Nevertheless, I see the Ministry of Justice as a kind of guardian of the rule of law as a kind of institution, but it will warn and act in cases such as when some independent international organisations find a fall in respect, in this case civil liberties, or in cases where the Constitutional Court decides that fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated and that it has substantially infringed on human rights and freedoms without legal basis. In this context, I think you are at least competent to give an opinion, at least to give a position on the situation itself, especially in view of the fact that we know that on the European Parliament platform they already wanted to launch European mechanisms on the rule of law due to the pressure on justice in Slovenia. Next. In short, we can also expect another report on the state of the rule of law by the European Commission, and I assume that there were also some stakeholders and interlocutors here. So you are the key interlocutor or guardian of the rule of law in Slovenia. Maybe just so much more because you mentioned the Constitutional Court. They are certainly the last institution responsible for respecting the Constitution and ensuring respect for human rights and freedoms, but we know that they are overburdened, that belongings are too high, that even in last year they are not able to act quickly enough, because they are humanely fed. Perhaps, in this context, the question of what will be done here to ensure that the Constitutional Court acts in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I should certainly point out that the rule of law is of paramount importance, and it is very important that people gain confidence in justice. As you yourself said, the burdens are high, we are aware of that. We are with all stakeholders to a large extent in agreements, listening to their needs, trying to find solutions. In other words, as regards the number of judges, we are still at the top of the European Union, and I would certainly like to commend them for their work, as the judicial backlog has been substantially reduced, so that matters are taking place, there are also judgments in some reasonable time. I mean, as I have already said, these dilemmas that you have raised are, of course, the subject of a debate to be held. There too, all stakeholders will be able to exchange their views and then we will find out exactly what the problems are and how to solve them. In this regard, I can explain once again, as I have told you, I am absolutely committed to the rule of law and to confidence in the judiciary, which I believe is at a relatively high level, but of course there is always some possibility of improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will ask the Culture Minister Dr Vask Simoniti and Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nicely greeted by both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 27 June, the 56th festival of Borštnik was the final event on the big stage of SNG Maribor. This is an event where awards are given to the best theatre artists. Nothing would be disputed if there were no unloving events at the time of the event. To make it clear to the viewers for the TV screens that I'm talking about, [[shows the object]] , depicting what appeared on the stage. Here are the Borštnik Prize winners, from which it follows that they organised themselves to wear joint T-shirts with the logo of the referendum, a referendum that is already misleading and has been told several times today by the Minister of the Environment that the organizer of the referendum campaign is showing up in the wrong light, which means that he is deceiving everyone he is speaking to. That is why this event also addressed all those who sat at home behind TV screens and also those who followed the creators who were rewarded. Nothing would have been disputed if this event had not taken place at the premises of a public institution. Thus, it is financed by budgetary resources. And it'll be even more obvious to see what the message was on your T-shirts. [[shows the object]] : “I will vote against.” I'm going to vote against, on all the T-shirts, big time. The guy who didn't have a shirt had a brooch. Below the logo [[shows the object]] it was also a clear date on what it refers to and on which the referendum relates. Given that the ministers share their powers and are both here with us, I would like to ask for an answer to the question: Were you even familiar with this event at the 56th Borštnik Festival? I'm asking mainly because this is a public event. In this part, I appeal to the Minister of the Interior. In the second part, because it is a public institution and is financed from budgetary resources, from public funds, I am interested in the following: Has the Ministry of Culture been informed that this will take place at this event or at a distribution that is widely known? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Minister, who's first? Dr. Vasko Simoniti, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Members, for your question. The minister, probably both ministers, was not aware of how people would be dressed at the event, the award of the Borštnik Awards. The Ministry of Culture explains that the design of the organization and the performance at the final ceremony is entirely within the competence of the Borštnik Festival, which is one of the internal organisational units of the Slovenian National Theatre Maribor, led by the Assistant Director for the Borštnik Festival. In his competence, the selection of co-workers for the final event and at this final ceremony these people create the design of the final event of this festival. In view of the question of how they were dressed and the messages they had on their clothes, i.e. against the referendum, the Ministry of Culture considers that this was probably not part of the design of the event itself, but also cannot affect the clothes of the participants, since costumes are not prescribed for the awardors, but they come to the stage dressed in private clothes of their own choosing. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture cannot have a pre-emptive effect on any contentious statements made by individuals, and it is a pity that the attention to art is taken by agitation for a particular political decision, by paying attention to rewarders and their artistic achievements. The diversion of attention to other topics only overshadows the festivities of the event and the gift to artists and artists and art is, of course, placed on the shadow side and political activism wants to move into the foreground. But these are the observations and opinions of the ministry, as I said, whatever influences how the ceremony will take place and how they will be dressed, the ministry has no intention or intention to engage in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I will not touch myself with what the Minister of Culture has already explained. In some ways, it was clear from his reply that some of the things that were presented there were unacceptable, not in the spirit that someone should not be against or for any referendum decision, but mainly because it greatly reduced what was there, so the adoption of the cultural and artistic award was not political agitation. Let me say for my own sake that the supervision of the implementation of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act is the responsibility of an inspectorate within our ministry, i.e. the Internal Affairs Inspectorate, except in a few cases, specifically Article 5, paragraph 6, and Article 7 of the Electoral Referendum Campaign Act, for which the Ministry of Culture and Media is responsible. Well, let me just say, if I say so myself, I wasn't aware of the incident in question. I've actually seen this from your question of the mission, and I've also seen that graphic or video production that showed how things were going. I must say that neither the police nor the Ministry of the Interior were directly associated with this event or at this event in any way involved. It must be said that this event was carried out in accordance with the law, so it has been declared as it must have been to take place in the interior. However, as far as part of the inspection is concerned, we have not yet established that the Ministry or our inspectorate could take any action against the aforementioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thanks for the answer. Otherwise, I would have added here myself; indeed, it was apparent from both sides, both internal affairs and culture, that it was actually the exploitation of artists for other purposes, and this also overshadowed the main message that was held at this event. It saddens me that this is really a central event, as far as the theatre is concerned, and then it also triggered a beach among other artists, that more creators in this direction began to be activated in Slovenia. I am even more saddened by the fact that in fact more or less everyone is financed from public funds. Why did I expose this issue? In particular, because the costs of the electoral campaign under the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act are also those necessary for the holding of pre-election meetings, where somehow this event, due to the way in which it was conducted, would be judged, and the costs of design, the press, reproductions are also as pre-election material. Which means that all these artists had pre-election material on them, so it's either them or they themselves, or the campaign organizer provided them with this material. I believe that it is necessary to initiate an official procedure against those who organised it, either the campaign organiser or the creators themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to supplement? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	I've got nothing to add. I just think that at such celebrations or celebrations, people behave according to their abilities and thinking. In some countries, there is a specific protocol on how people need to be regulated, and they do not let them in, if they are wrong, into others. Excesses, or some expression of political views, have become increasingly apparent in recent times at important events. Well, that's the atmosphere. I don't know what else to say. I'm not gonna get into this on my own, so to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Perhaps the fact that, according to our known information or what we have examined, this event was reported or done in the same way as it should have been, in accordance with the Law on Public Collections, as opposed to — I think that about 60 — those that took place in the past year and of course were not reported — the organizer was known. Given what happened here at Borštnik's meeting, what you were talking about will have to be given my special attention later on the preparation or issuance of reports on the electoral campaign. It will then be seen whether these costs are somehow covered by the organisers if they are not, but apparently all these artists are so richly paid that they can also be themselves from their own income, i.e. from the revenue they receive from public funds, buy T-shirts and the corresponding agitprop props they use to participate in referendum campaigns.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your answers. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'll just start. I hope Minister Blackach hears me. The SVRK, led by the Minister, is the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, has, just before the publication of the calls for proposals by the Norwegian financial mechanism and the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area of the donor countries, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, voluntarily introduced discriminatory conditions by which it excludes the participation of non-governmental organisations, without the consent of the donor countries. The call for proposals allocates funds aimed at mitigating climate change and strengthening education. The resources from the Norwegian financial mechanism and the EEA Financial Mechanism could benefit from the social benefits of the non-governmental sector and are therefore at risk. As a result of the violation of Slovenia, there is a loss of €34 million. And this would not have happened for the first time, it happened in Hungary in 2014, when the funds were blocked due to the exclusion of NGOs. The Norwegian Ambassador to Slovenia claims that the new criteria are absolutely unacceptable. In accordance with the contract with donor countries, there must be no conditions in the tenders that are not previously coordinated with donor countries. Since the SVRK unilaterally changed the terms of the tenders, it violated this contract. Tenders on behalf of donors shall be reviewed and endorsed by the Financial Mechanisms Office, which, during the confirmation, reviewed two versions of the tender and the SVRK added the exclusion conditions subsequently, shall be stated in a second view without the knowledge of the FMO. The excuse of the SVRK, which we have seen in the media, that NGOs are limited to cooperation because of the efficient use of the funds with the highest added value, is completely covered by hair. In fact, it is a matter of direct obstruction and elimination of NGOs, and this is quite obvious, as we know that at the same time companies, independent entrepreneurs and public institutions can apply to the tender without any additional conditions. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Why exactly does the Government want to prevent NGOs from participating in public calls for the Norwegian Financial Mechanism and the EEA Financial Mechanism? Is the exclusion of NGOs without any consent from Slovenia's donors actually threatening to block EUR 34 million of donor funds? Who will be responsible for this enormous loss and great damage? Do you think we don't need this money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! First of all, let me say that these statements are not correct. There was no SVRK's will, no discriminatory conditions are in this call. By the way, let me tell you that the first covered package of EUR 3 million from this financial mechanism was signed by CNVOS in 2019. Thus, if anyone has been privileged in this procedure, CNVOS has signed a contract under this fund for two years before the procedures for allocating all other funds have been under way. The conditions laid down in this invitation to tender shall ensure that good projects are notified to the fullest extent to improve the resources available. From responsibility to donors, Slovenia expects the funds to be spent efficiently and spent with the highest added value. The content of the call for and tender documentation for the Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Programme implemented under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 and the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism during the same period was considered and confirmed on 10 May by the Commission composed of representatives of the institution, i.e. the SVRK, the competent ministries and the programming partner from the Kingdom of Norway. However, for the second part of the invitation to tender relating to the Education programme, the strengthening of human resources financed by the Norwegian financial mechanism 2014-2021 has been addressed and endorsed by the call for proposals made by representatives of the programme holder, namely the SVRK, the competent relevant ministries and programme partners from donor countries at 11. 5. 2021. There is no restriction on access to funds in this call, but conditions are laid down to apply for a call for tender to ensure that good projects are notified by competent partners, which will also elevate these funds to the greatest extent possible. It is necessary to be aware that projects where the lowest value is 200 000 euros, and for this reason no such call can be made by someone who has established a society yesterday and has no reference yet. The setting of conditions to enable the application of quality projects is not unusual and our clarifications will also go in this direction, given that the issue of these conditions has been raised for our partners. I believe that it is in the common interest that the terms of the invitation to tender are such, once again, that the funds will be spent effectively with the maximum added value. However, I would like to conclude that these conditions, which require a declaration of quality projects, were also prescribed because they are under the Civil Society Fund managed by the Centre of NGOs of Slovenia, CNVOS, and since the contract was signed with the Brussels Financial Mechanisms Office in 2019. However, these funds are intended for many smaller applicants, to whom they do not have such, I will say, strong administrative and technical skills, as is expected from these funds, where larger and more demanding projects are involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Dear Minister, it is clear that this government is doing its utmost to prevent non-governments. Your argument that these conditions ensure the application of good projects speaks only of you imagining that each company is willing to report and carry out better projects than some NGOs. It is also a matter of new tendering conditions that companies may participate in tenders only if they have 50 active members, deemed that the member is active if the current year and the last two previous participants in the assembly and paid the membership fee. What quality is that? What condition does that have, what quality? Private institutions may also participate in the tender only if they have at least three full-time employees in the last three years and an expert education at the seventh stage of the Slovenian qualification framework in the field of the operation of a non-governmental organisation and no conditions for businesses. I would like to know what the actual reason for the introduction of unjustified, exclusional conditions is and why the change of the SVRC was made just before the call for proposals was published and without the knowledge and consent of the donors. Because, as I said before, the Norwegian ambassador said that the new criteria were absolutely unacceptable. But you don't understand when someone tells you. In CNVOS – when you say how privileged they have been – they stress that, in accordance with the contract with donor countries, there must be no conditions in the tenders that were not previously foreseen and coordinated with donors. That's why I want to know what else you're going to think of and how far you're going to go. Are you just going to ban NGOs directly? Because we hear calls more than once: for they have too much money. We've heard before: artists have too much. On the other hand, for neo-Nazis, the status of special importance has already been met by four members. And here are 50 active members, just so we can't run at the invitation. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you. In fact, there was no further question. I've already explained everything in the first part, and I can tell you everything again. I can repeat to you that both May 10th and May 11th have been dealt with and confirmed by the Commission. All representatives, both representatives of donor countries and the SVRK, shall participate in these committees. About the terms. I have before me because you just mentioned CNVOS – this quota of EUR 3 million received under the 2019 contract is intended to fund the strengthening of civil society. For example, one of these calls issued by CNVOS, worth €450 000, lays down the following conditions for eligibility of the applicant. He says: "They must be established at least 60 months before the date of the application." This is what do you think? Discriminatory condition? Much sharper than the conditions that we have set out in our invitation to tender. That in 2017-2019 they had an average annual income of between 100,000 and 500 000 euros, this is what CNVOS wrote in its invitation to tender, not SVRK. Much sharper conditions than in our invitation to tender. “Implement or implement at least three projects by 1 January 2017”, “have adopted a multi-annual organisational work plan or strategy” and so on and so on. I can read you the additional conditions that there are in dozens. These conditions laid down by CNVOS are substantially sharper than those prescribed for substantially larger assets. As this is a total of EUR 3 million, the calls for the Norwegian mechanism and the European Economic Area for some less than EUR 30 million. So it is not a discriminatory condition, but it is a matter of end-usering and selected projects that represent added value for the area that we are addressing, i.e. strengthening human resources, education and adapting to climate change. What are the funds for this invitation to tender for? Let me tell you a few examples of who got the CNVOS money. A campaign to raise awareness of the situation on the Balkan route. Next: Twitter brigade; Just me means yes; Foreign Act, new attempt to lower standards for the protection of migrants. These are the names of projects that have received funds. To Savo without hydro power plants and so on. I think we have to behave responsibly and use the resources available to us in a responsible way, because even if it comes from grants – after all, 15% of Slovenia’s participation is here – it’s about money that comes from people from taxes in one way or another. That is why responsibility must be exercised here and returned through real, quality projects, which also have added value to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My colleague Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will ask for a debate on this, because the Minister has told all of us right now that these funds are being distributed ideologically. Because the NGOs used them for the campaign Just means yes, because some have done research on the situation, about the migrant Balkan route, about awareness, about the construction of hydro power plants, these NGOs – respected NGOs, who are watching us, you will not get the money. We'd only get money from government NGOs, just like they're getting now. It is said that added value for this government, which says they need such projects that will give the greatest added value, is propaganda for the government of Janez Janša. If you're doing something different, if you're independent, if you're enlightening people about things the government doesn't want to hear about, you won't get the money. And once again, we are at risk of losing 34 million euros. Who's responsible for this? Minister Černač, will you open your whistle and answer for the loss of 34 million that Slovenia could receive, but will not be due to your ideological blindness and objectivity? That's unacceptable. I expect that we will discuss this issue here in the National Assembly, to know where this government is taking us, which has only ideological criteria and no objective ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by colleague Vojko Starović, namely Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, the Minister is not among us. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, and also Mr. Minister, my former neighbor by the office! The question concerns the limitation of the possibility of flying, the use of airspace. Edward Rusjan's public airport works only one tour because there is no traffic and we need to maintain it because we have received some European funds for it. That we're not forced to return them, it's working, but the fact is, there's almost no traffic. Therefore, for reasons of savings, at 5 p.m., one tournament is in operation. In this way, when it closes, an absurd bureaucratic logic must not operate a sports airport which is next to a public airport. It must not operate and close the operation of the Maribor Aviation Centre. By 5 p.m., they can fly, but you know that a lover's activity, let it be paragliding, sailing, motor flying, ultra-light airplanes, balloons, whatever it is, it happens if it's a lover's day, mostly in the afternoon. At 5 p.m. they shut down Maribor Airport without traffic and they can't fly. But according to pure bureaucratic logic. And with this they closed another door because one of our professional pilots landed at the sports airport after 5:00 a.m. and was punished, went to court and got the lawsuit. And we still, I don't know what logic, we're preventing it. Maybe it's not that close to the plane, but the planes can't just be in the air, they have to take off from somewhere and land. This is intended for public airports and sports airports and other airports. This is what they are designed to do, that is, allowing flight, not preventing flight, which is what we have in this case. Even more absurd is that Maribor sports airport has more traffic than that, more activities are taking place and there is no activity. That's impossible. I myself have been a pilot for more than 50 years, an instructor, I myself have been a ten-year leader of the Portorož Aerodrome, on the same track – we have also had a limited working time because you have to have firefighters, the one, the third, the fourth – when we closed it, sports activity could take place normally. There's no obstacle, not even the slightest reason. And this went back to the days of Yugoslavia, and this went back to the beginning in Slovenia, and now all of a sudden it's not working. Bureaucrats occupy cities, prevent us from free use of airspace, which we all have under Article 70 of the Constitution, under the same conditions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Comrade Starovic, we're out of time. Answer verbally or in writing? Lip, okay. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Jure Ferrjan, Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! My parliamentary question refers to the 30th anniversary of independent Slovenia, which is the time when especially this year, and especially in recent weeks with some special pride, feeling, respect, recalling that sacred period of the Slovenian people, this is the period of Slovenian independence. I am sure that most of us, or all of us, attended or otherwise attended central national celebrations, longing for feelings of patriotism, love of home, joy, joy, happiness, pride, and, of course, gratitude to all those who once hoped and believed, but three decades ago they dared and were able to implement this idea, which has grown for centuries or millenniums, through the state of Slovenia and Slovenia, after the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. That is why I think it is right that we have some gratitude to all the independents and all those who have achieved both in the implementation of this idea and in the defence of the war on Slovenia, the way of international recognition to thank them with action. Regrettably, after three decades of certain matters remain unsettled or unsettled, so I believe that, at the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the independent country, it is the right opportunity and the right moment to regulate matters in the field of status, especially the rights of veterans of war for Slovenia, fairly and honestly, both in comparison with other veterans or veterans of war in the Republic of Slovenia and in comparison with other members of the European Union. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister of Defence: What rights do veterans have for Slovenia, comparable to other war veterans in the Republic of Slovenia? What is the number of beneficiaries and what is the annual amount to be allocated from the national budget for each category or right? What is the international comparison, in particular, with the other Member States of the European Union? Does the competent ministry, perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, plan certain changes, certain measures to increase the rights of war veterans for Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Comrade Ferjan, would you like a written, oral answer? Get up. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Andre Zabret, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! In view of the implementation, it appears that the Norwegian financial mechanism and the EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021, hereinafter referred to as NFM, do not take place as optimally as possible in the SVRK domain. Why is that important? NFM is not a cohesion policy. This is a donation from the donor countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, where the main objective is to support civil society. Under the NFM, there are four programmes and funds and the only thing that works well in this financial perspective is the Civil Society Fund. It is precisely because this fund only operates as envisaged that the Brussels Financial Mechanisms Office has called on the SVRK to redistribute the funds from the reserve to the Civil Society Fund. However, the SVRK obviously does not want to do this because it would give these funds to NGOs, so this money will simply go to waste. Minister, I have two questions for you: Why don't you transfer the funds to the Civil Society Fund, which is the only one that works, despite the calls from donors? Is it possible that, because in this case, the funds would be EUR 1.8 million, NGOs operating in the field of civil society, active citizenship and the empowering of vulnerable groups? The aim of donors is to develop long-term sustainability and to strengthen the capacity of the organisation of the entire civil society sector in order to strengthen their role in contributing to policy and systemic change, to promote democratic participation, active citizenship and human rights. Minister, I'm also interested in: Do you not agree with these goals? What exactly bothers you? Are you going to take responsibility for the EUR 1.8 million that the country has at its disposal going down just because you or the Government disagree with these objectives? Is it not enough that it is precisely because of the will of the SVR or you personally find yourself in the least disadvantaged situation, when you yourself, regardless of the programming documents and the Regulation implementing the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021, I am talking about Article 7.2, laying down the conditions for who can participate as a partner or a leading partner in projects to be implemented under the NFM programmes? Let me quote only part of Article 7.2: "Eligible project holder may be any public or private economic or non-economic entity and non-governmental organisation established as legal persons in the beneficiary country. Where specified explicitly in the agreement in the programme, eligible project holders of an international organisation or bodies or agencies may be within their framework.” End of story. Minister, you have simply violated this regulation and thereby endangered €34 million of funds, thereby embarrassing Slovenia in the international field. I want to know what you're going to do and whether you're going to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. About nine months ago, we listened to the concerns expressed by representatives of the Social Democrats about how the Commission has already rejected our plan twice or three times, which has not yet been written and submitted to the procedure. Then, in February, we listened to the lies of the leader of the Left, Luke Mesca, about how the Commission rejected this plan, and so on. Today we are hearing again lies about how funds from some mechanisms are being threatened. If this were true, the same Regulation also applies to the funds of the non-governmental fund managed by CNVOS, i.e. their conditions which I have previously read are even more problematic, controversial and discriminatory in individual calls. They're not. Because it's not what you say. There must be conditions. It is not about restricting access to funds, it is guaranteed to all under equal conditions. And if the conditions for allocating substantially smaller funds are stricter than the conditions set by the SVRC along with all others in this call, then I really don't know what the problem is. I have previously read to you the terms of the call for funds from the NGO fund. Thus, applicants must be set up at least five years before the date of the call for tender; they must have an average annual income of between 100 and 500 000 euros and so on. Essentially stricter conditions, but you don't trouble them. However, you are problematic about some of the normal requirements that will allow for the application of quality projects at €11 million when talking about human resources, and €15 million at €564 000 when talking about climate change mitigation. That's a problem for you. I don't know what this problem is, I don't see it. All our ambitions go in the direction that resources will be allocated to quality projects. In the Civil Society Fund, I told you earlier that 3 million euros are available under the signed contract. After amendments to the Income Act were adopted in the National Assembly, funds for non-governmental persons were doubled, as the percentage of the share of income that can be allocated to individual beneficiaries increased from 0.5 % to 1%, approximately half of these funds remained unallocated and the overall quota is intended to strengthen civil society. When you talk about government civil society – I'm sorry, give me three civil society members who are in power. All civil society that has been generated in this country in recent years is left-handed, 95 percent. But here is not the problem of direction, but what programs and projects are being implemented and funded. If projects are good, if they are for the benefit of the people, it is totally irrelevant which side of the political spectrum a civil society belongs to. If there's money to help people, I don't know, the Red Cross, the Karitas and so on, then there's no problem. The problem is whether funds are earmarked for certain projects that are themselves intended or for the financing of individual activities that do not amount to any added value. For this reason, I think it is in the interest of all, both those who provide these funds and those who, in the final stage, benefit from these calls, also to come to quality projects that will have the greatest possible added value for people. This is the main goal and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Colleague Zabrett, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	I personally or we see the problem mainly in not taking advantage of the funds, because it is totally a shame not to take advantage of these things because they are good projects. The fact is, if you don't transfer the money to a fund for a fair society, it's just going to fall apart. Indeed, the SVRK is already late for calls from both programmes, the Education Programme – strengthening human resources and the Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Programme. The programme documents provided for two calls for proposals for each programme. The first call for proposals should be made last year and the remaining resources from both programmes should be announced this year. So once again, I ask: Why don't you transfer these funds to $1.8 million, despite the calls of the donors, to the fund? Will you take responsibility for this? As far as these 34 million are concerned, the real implementation of the Norwegian financial mechanism and the conditions we are talking about is that the tender does not essentially contain these conditions, but you put these conditions in the manuals, and they are not formally a component of the tender, but they are part of the tender documentation, which will then formally exclude the application. We know that there is also a formal judgement before the application. And the discrimination you're talking about isn't. Any company can apply, without employees, and we know the conditions for NGOs. By voluntarily altering the terms and conditions or submitting the manuals in addition to the invitation to tender, you have definitely caused negative discrimination against beneficiaries, endangering the use of funds, these 34 million euros, and at the same time you may be faced with complaints by beneficiaries that we are not talking about again embarrassing and embarrassing the European or international public. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	Maybe you have an old reminder in your hands from a time ago. Both tenders were issued a long time ago, in May, the deadline for the application is until 30 September of this year. I said an indicative amount of funds, I don't know what amount of 1.8 million you would have to transfer to the Civil Society Fund, as you say. There is no discrimination under these tendering conditions, the tendering conditions, the entire tendering documents confirmed to the Commission, one of them on 10 May, the other on 11 May. However, the conditions laid down in the invitation to tender are normal conditions, according to my assessment, to ensure that competent applicants and good projects are notified. Once again, I will read you the conditions where the amounts are substantially lower and are substantially sharper than the conditions laid down in this call, because the average annual income between EUR 100 and EUR 500 000 is, for my terms, a condition is significantly sharper than that of a three-professor institution working at this institution if it is to apply for a few million euro. Something similar applies to other conditions. So all these fears of yours, I must say, are superfluous. I must say that I was very concerned last week about the blockade of EUR 2.5 billion, which threatened us with the unwise conduct of our Commissioner, who supported the unreasonable demands of the two Commissioners and the Commissioner in deciding on our Recovery and Resistance Plan, which had nothing to do with the plan itself. I must say, thank God that this judgment has prevailed within the framework of the European Commission and that these requirements have been rejected as inappropriate and our plan, which brings about 2.5 billion funding over the next six years, has also been confirmed. And that was a real fear that was real. If this did not happen, I think that Slovenia would have significantly worse chances of getting out of the crisis in the coming months and years. On these issues, I think it would also be appropriate to discuss publicly and ask whether all those who sit in positions of responsibility always represent the interests of the country we represent, whether there are also any rejections here, or whether in such cases we still deserve to hold the seats we sit on. So no fear, honourable Member. We maintain communication with all donors, and if the common interest is to change anything in this call, we will do so. Once again, I say that our only objective was to ensure the application of quality projects by competent applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Colleague Zabrett, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you. I will certainly require a general discussion at one of the next meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Support to civil society is a key priority of the donor countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway in implementing the Norwegian financial mechanism and the EEA Financial Mechanism. For this purpose, the Civil Society Fund, financed by all three donor countries, will be implemented in each beneficiary country. The fact that the SVRK does not want to transfer funds to a fair society fund and call for tenders is a matter of EUR 1.8 million, as I have already said, is nicely said irresponsible and extremely worrying. It is better to lose money than to receive it from civil society, which plays a major role in contributing to policy and systemic change, to foster democratic participation, active citizenship and human rights. Above all, it is also necessary to discuss in the general debate that, because of his will, the Minister has taken care of infringements of the regulation in the implementation of both mechanisms when he has laid down the conditions, I am talking about Article 7.2 who can participate as a partner or a leading partner in the projects. This has led to discrimination against beneficiaries, to the threat of drawing or to the deterioration of funds of 34 million grants, and, as I have already mentioned, also to the European or international public. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to have a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Sonibo Knezak, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! With 1. Seven. 2021 European Cohesion Regulation has entered into force, allowing for the formal attachment of programming documents. As you have already pointed out on several occasions, the rapid launch of the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the programming period from 2021 to 2027 is of exceptional importance. We have recently been able to track the information that Slovenia will be programmed by the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for this period under a single operational programme involving the funds of the four European Funds. In view of the European legislation adopted, I would like to ask you for the following information: What is the timetable for the preparation of an operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy? When is the Government planning to submit the programme to the European Commission? What is the timing of the partnership agreement? When does the government intend to submit a partnership agreement to the European Commission? When will the operational programme be approved? When will European cohesion policy really start to be implemented, especially in terms of when can we expect the first calls to be issued?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I have before me the announcement of your question for today's session, which reads: "Are and how are municipalities involved in the programming of projects and programmes for European development funds under the Multiannual Framework 2021-2027 and the Next Generation of the EU?" And the second part of the question: "What will you do as a competent minister to raise the level of cooperation with the municipalities in the planning of European funds to a higher level?" And let me first answer you a part of the question that you've announced, and then everything else that hasn't been announced. In this regard, you are finding that communication is lacking in further programming with the municipalities, which is not true. During the last year, a number of meetings were held at a number of levels, during which discussions were held with all the mayors of the municipalities, the development councils, the councils of the development regions. Indeed, in the vast majority of the distances due to the situation, but regardless of the fact that more than 2 000 subjects were involved at different levels and levels, both in terms of development regions and in terms of the Eastern and Western cohesion region, as well as with individual associations, ZMOS, SOS, ZOS, are said to be those representing associations of individual municipalities. In the course of these discussions, we have, on the one hand, evaluated the implementation of the current cohesion policy after last year's release of the spasms created by the absorption of these funds, and in a year we have committed some billion euros from the 2014-2020 perspective, talking about how and how it is wise to direct the funds of the Recovery and Resistance Plan and the future cohesion policy. With regard to the latter, we have somehow all agreed that some of the bad experiences from 2014-2020, which should not be repeated, are saying that, due to formal implementation procedures, implementation has slowed down. As you know, the previous financial perspective was only an operational third year of implementation. So if I compare this to the current situation, it's something like that this perspective would only be operational at the end of 2023 and at the beginning of 2024. He won't. It will be essential earlier, it is said in the following year, because our country's absorption capacity is limited. You need to know that in the best years Slovenia has managed to pump around €700 to €800 million annually. Last year, as you know, this amount was slightly less than €500 million, we are counting on it to be somewhere within €800 million. And if we start implementing projects from the future financial perspective too quickly – given that we need to close both REACT-EU and the 330 million by the end of 2023 as an old perspective, where you know that we still have about a billion €300 million of resources to draw up, such as the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is expected to start operationally, even in the last quarter of this year – then we need to be careful when deploying these projects and not to concentrate too much over time. That is why our ambition is to start the next perspective in a financial sense in the second half of next year. Programming is expected to be completed by the end of this year, what you asked me about, the operational programme, the partnership agreement and everything else, and we are counting on confirmation at the level of the European Commission that it could happen in the first half of next year. Given that the eligible costs are in the next financial perspective from 1 January of this year, we will also try to cover some of the projects that would otherwise be carried out under the current financial perspective, 2014-2020, where, unfortunately, in the last period, there has been a lack of funding for individual projects, including the co-existence of the crisis and everything else, and we will somehow ensure that the first projects to be implemented in the second half of next year from the new perspective, including projects already prepared in this current financial perspective, which will allow us to make a normal transition from the current to the next programming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Comrade Knezak, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you, Your Honor. We were going to talk about the same subjects, but you already answered me in a slightly reversed order, just like I was going to ask you. These are issues that are important for the municipalities, especially since these are essentially the main development funds in the coming years. That's why I think it's an important part, which I've also put into your question, of participating in the preparation of this document. I know, according to your information, you said that they were actively involved in preparation, but what the congregations tell us is that they were more or less just informed, that was over 2,000 stakeholders. The information given to us, which I explain, is that there is a lack of communication, I do not know, the meeting of the working group with the Secretary of State would be on 21 February, in principle five members of the East, five West. In short, a largely small group or more than active listeners are involved in the preparation. This is what I just wanted to point out, especially because these are the only resources that we can count on for developmental content in the coming periods. Therefore, the congregations also expect timely information, including on the timetables I have asked about. I'm not going to ask you another question, because you've already answered some of my questions in the first place. So thank you for that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I am taking advantage of this opportunity for some more emphasis or information. I don't know, it'd be better to hear with a name and surname, who's the one who thinks he's under-informed and under-involved. Everyone's as involved as they want. However, it depends on its activities whether it will be included with concrete proposals, with substantive proposals or only as an observer. So no one at any level has ever been restricted. On 21 July, when this multi-annual financial framework was negotiated with these additional funds for recovery, the President of the Government consulted all mayors immediately after that in August, and three weeks later also the State Council with all mayors. We then continued these activities in parallel with programming. This is also why we have somehow succeeded in the Recovery and Resistance Plan to maintain some important projects at the local level, for municipalities which unfortunately will not be financed under the multiannual financial framework. Here I am talking mainly about water supply and sewage networks, where we have managed to place these smaller units, below 2,000 population units on sewers and below 10,000 on water lines. We have managed to place some of the infrastructure in the area of tourism, cultural heritage, business zones, senior citizens' homes, public rental non-profit apartments, flood reduction, sustainable construction, renovation of buildings and one part of strengthening the broadband network in areas where there is no commercial interest. These substantive guidelines are somehow the product of these discussions and the exchange of views with individual representatives of local authorities. Throughout the year, this process has continued and is continuing now, forwards. On Wednesday, the President of the Government convened a working meeting with all the mayors in Brdo. As you said to participate in the preparation of the operational programme, both cohesion regions were appointed early this year to participate with the SVRK in the programming process. In short, I personally have to say that I really don't realize that this dialogue would be too small. It's very valuable, very important. In conclusion, I can also tell you that our focus, based on experience from the past, is also due to the fact that, despite all of this, a significant part of the recovery and resilience plan is focused primarily on state infrastructure projects and investments, that the situation of local communities – according to NUTS level 3 regions – is significantly strengthened in the next perspective. It is said that we provide, within the framework of cohesion policy, from all funds more resources than was available for the local level in the period 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Comrade Knezak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you. I'll settle for this information. One of our tasks is to refer to the competent issues on which they are addressing us and I think this is an important area. I welcome the statements you mentioned, Minister, that you also included projects that are not covered by this package. But we also have something else in these areas, around the sewers, the plumbing, in this country to do. So I will not make a request for an extended debate, but I will follow that you will be timely, especially in the field of information, because budgets are finally adopted at the end of the year, and these development programmes must also be included in these budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Igor Peček, Minister of Finance of Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, welcome, colleagues and colleagues! This year he was at the Ministry of Finance drafting a bill on the exchange of electronic accounts and other electronic documents. The purpose of the introduction of the law is to ensure legal continuity in the transposition and implementation of Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. This Directive has been transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by means of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users. Compared to the existing law governing the obligation to exchange e-invoices for business entities entering bond relations with budget users or contracting entities, the obligation to exchange e-invoices would extend to all economic operators and their mutual bond relations by means of this law. This means that, by introducing the Law on Electronic Exchange of Electronic Accounts and Other Electronic Documents, business entities will therefore have to issue exclusively e-invoices to other business entities, as well as receive only e-invoices and keep them in legally compatible e-invoices, and all e-invoices will also have to be tax-confirmed with Furs, which is currently only a liability for cash accounts. Since the Ministry of Finance withdrew the proposal early in June this year, I ask you or ask you to explain: Why has the bill on the exchange of electronic accounts and other electronic documents been withdrawn? What are the reasons for withdrawing the bill from preparation? In what way were representatives of the professional and interested public involved in the drafting of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much for that question. I see you are very closely following the work of the Ministry of Finance, and you have information about this. In this regard, I would like to explain the following. First time. It is true that this law has been drafted and it has been given public treatment, but it has been given to public hearings beyond those normal procedures which are taken into account at the Ministry of Finance when something is put into public hearing. After that, he was withdrawn from public hearing. This means nothing more than being examined again to get to know everything. This Directive has been transposed and there are no consequences for the Directive and operators can issue e-invoices at any time. Economic operators do not need a special law to do so, but they can do so, and it is different if they are now required to do so by law. And if they are required to do so, no matter what else it is necessary to provide a signal everywhere, and we already have our first problem here. Once again, those economic operators can do this on their own. I think it is also pointless for economic operators to be forced if it is not possible to ensure all conditions at every point in the country where they can actually do so. And a second time. Administrative and bureaucratically and cost-effectively, these matters need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Comrade Patch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much for saying that, Mr. Secretary. I must say, I agree with you. It is also my opinion that all economic operators should be allowed to improve their competitiveness by means of the State or by enacting the right laws in terms of savings or lower costs, that we must strive to minimise administrative burdens and that there is some need to reduce negative environmental impacts. We probably also share here an opinion that, say, the impact of paper bills on the environment, as regards the negative impact on the environment. However, I am not sure that the proposal in such a form as was originally proposed would allow for all of the above. In particular, because the upgrade of the system of processing e-invoices for economic operators will represent a large, not only administrative, but also a financial contribution, because there will be a need to make a number of updates as regards technical resources as well as personnel. I would therefore complement my question with the following: Has the financial assessment been carried out to upgrade the accounting systems of economic operators for the issuance and receipt of accounts? Have the means of issuing and receiving e-invoices been developed to enable economic operators to make the transition to e-industry, such as the upgrading of the UJPnet or the system for issuing and receiving e-invoices of budgetary users, it is said that this model could also be applied to economic operators?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Just to explain it to everyone. When the law is technically prepared to say so, it goes to public hearing by procedure. That's actually the first phase. The law shall then be made available to the Office of the Government for the Law, taking into account comments and so on. But already in this context, it is said at the beginning of the public hearing that all of these calculations that you have mentioned are not, the law or amendment of the law is prepared here, thereby complementing, will be examined what this also means for the costs of economic operators, including what this means for budgetary users. But right now, if we're talking about the environment and so on, any entity can issue an electronic bill and it doesn't actually need a law. So, not least from this point of view, I personally receive electronic accounts on a mobile phone for certain services, but if you want, from so-called very small businesses, micro-enterprises, and I am glad that this is the case. The second is, of course, to force someone to do so by some regulation, to impose additional obligations on them, which they must meet and which concern additional costs. So there is no harm from this point of view, and it helps to reexamine some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Don't you? [[No, no, ……]] Let's move on. The next question will be asked by Mr Matjaž Germany, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Today we already have a second question, a current topic, and we have already discussed this. It's an accumulation lake called Vogršček. In recent days, virtually all media have called for this issue. I have the Primorska News in my hands, which has touched these issues in detail. In the title it is possible to understand that the plantations are thirsty and Vogršček is dry. Of course, there are exceptional circumstances, and the period is quite dry. It happened that it was in the recovery phase – this restoration has been expected for more than 10 years, for which we have supported all in the National Assembly, all governments, and I think that the movement was made by two ministries ahead of you, a respected minister, and you have consistently encouraged this investment, this reconstruction, so important for the entire Vipav Valley, especially for its lower part. But in today’s circumstances, under the current circumstances, the restoration of anger is an empty and dry period that has helped to disengage from Monday certain important users, especially fruit growers, vegetables on the lower part of the valley. Although you or your employees have informed them in time, it is never early enough. Dear Minister, we are aware from the media that your Secretary of State has also visited all the orchards and conducted a series of talks. Of course, it is impossible to avoid bad will when such circumstances arise. My questions are as follows: Can you explain to the general public how things are going on in the field with regard to the reconstruction of the Vogršček barrier? In spite of the restoration, when will farmers be able to access water? Could it not have been better to plan a restoration without such a lack of water in such an important, sensitive area? That's the basic question we're asking. But of course, after the battle it's easy to be a general. You have also informed me that you have provided all users with free of charge for this year because of the circumstances. Let me remind you that due to the lack of irrigation, we were also given a chill a few months ago, so that the area of agriculture, fruit farming in the Lower Vipavska Valley is facing an extraordinary test due to such and different circumstances. What keeps us up in some way, if I may say so, is still a good prospect for the future. So let's get through this year and the year half that separates us from the orderly state that we're all working for. Of course, we still have some very important challenges ahead of us in Vogršček, but perhaps next time, in the second part. Thank you so far, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mr German! The topic that you are exposing this time is certainly one of the main themes in our ministry and is an extremely topical topic, and we are dealing with it with it with all seriousness all the time. It would probably be different if the Minister of Agriculture had the ability to look to the future, but that is not the case, and that is probably why we are in these troubles where we are today. For if they knew that it would be cold in the spring, if they knew that it would be as it was this year, especially it is crucial, and even at this moment such a drought as we were given, then they would probably not go in winter to empty Vogršček and repair the barriers or barriers that were built there. But we didn't know that, and I think we can all be kind of happy today that after 10 or a little more years we are finally restoring Vogršček. We are restoring the barrier, which will once again allow for irrigation of more than 3 000 hectares of agricultural land. It will also allow for new investments, which will also be financed by the Rural Development Programme during the new programming period. Plans are made for the new 2,000 hectares on new legs, the existing system is on the weak thousands of hectares that are now operating in this Vogrščku. However, this rehabilitation, clearly, caused Vogršček to be emptied so that the barrier could be repaired. There's no other way. All the remedial works are also running during this summer. However, this additional barrier does not allow this level of water in this barrier. That is why we have now come into a situation where significantly less water can flow into the stock than it was before recovery, even though it was a lower surface. With the fact that there had been practically no rainfall for several weeks now, these waters began to decline. It is also true that when precipitation was significantly higher during the spring period, this water was released from the accumulation precisely because it could be provided with a dry part to perform the remedial works. However, I do not think that the issue will be so black-eyed, but we have managed to take at least those necessary measures, so that the majority or most of Vogršček's irrigation system is not dry. It is true that we have called on everyone for a rational use of water to look for solutions, opportunities for overcrowding – meetings are still taking place today, including with fishermen, with the Ministry of the Environment – from the upper lake to the lower. In addition, we have already begun to fill the irrigation system, not the accumulation, but the irrigation system from the Vipave River in Renča, where additional water is supplied directly from the river, of course as long as the natural flow of the river allows it. Once the flow drops below the biological minimum, we will also have to stop, but the weather also saved us. I think there's been a lot of rainfall in this area tonight, too, so I think we've got two problems a little bit more under control for a week or so. However, the situation is extremely serious and at this point I think that we cannot do anything other than what we are doing now. We added additional refrigerators to this pump because of the long-lasting equipment in Renča, so that the pump can work all the time to further cool because overheating occurred. In short, we haven't had this situation in years, decades, probably, and that's why we couldn't predict all the problems. That is why we immediately started these experimental launches and I hope today to say that in most cases the water in the irrigation system is. Probably with lower pressures, there are probably even smaller problems in this, but, however, at least the blackest scenario to just close a leg did not end up with all these additional measures that we are looking for these days practically from moment to moment. I hope that we will be able to bring this season under the roof as optimally as possible. It is true that we have also foreseen free water in the intervention law this year, including the cost of maintaining the irrigation system. With this, we have practically saved farms in the area where they are irrigation, about 65,000 euros. It's not much, but it is. There are funds, so at least there will be no payment. That is why we provide these funds then also for maintenance. The Fund for Agricultural Lands will also carry out all maintenance work further in order to ensure that the system works as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Comrade German, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Dear Minister, as long as I have the opportunity to monitor this situation with regard to Vogršček for many years, I am personally confident that you and your team will also skip this obstacle, which will probably end with a larger rainy period, and of course make the full investment as necessary. I'm sure of it. But I only have two more questions. Your predecessors and I have discussed these contents long and wide, including on the round tables. Even with you, we've had the opportunity to discuss this informally. For us, it is crucial to rebuild the barrier, which is currently taking place, and of course to regulate and transfer the irrigation network to the local community. I think that in 2018, if memory does not deceive me, including the local communities, I am a member of four municipalities from this area, and your predecessor, Minister Dejan Židan, signed a letter of intent to transfer governance to the local community, which would allow for some sustainable renewal and, of course, control and better communication between local communities and stakeholders. The third question, Madam Minister, is touching on new content that is not in any way related to the Sunday referendum, but we know quite a few examples of accumulation lakes, where it was possible to introduce some new content, we are talking about sports activities, in the final phase of fishing, which is already present, in the final phase of tourism. In particular, sports activities have already been and are. I wonder whether your vision will also support the efforts of the local community to give the Municipality of Nova Gorica and Municipality of Ajdovščina an opportunity to also introduce some new content, regulate the environment and make this environment friendly, not only to nature. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much for the additional questions. By all means, the barrier is being rebuilt from last winter. In February this accumulation began to charge at least to the extent that we had water at at least this level, as we said before, and the investment was expected to end in the winter of 2022, which is within a good half year. Therefore, we expect that the next irrigation season will be practically full, with all the quantity, without any reservations. It is correct to say, however, that our ministry is not a leading or bearer ministry in the reconstruction of the barrier, but it is the Ministry of Environment and Space or the Directorate for Water in this part, which also manages the accumulation of Vogršček. However, since 85% or 7 million cubic cubic metres of water from the accumulation is earmarked for irrigation systems, we have also contributed 85% of the funds after the first calculations. Of course, then the calculations have grown, but we still provide about 4 million to repair this barrier and therefore we are monitoring the reconstruction work itself. As far as transferring the irrigation network to the local community is concerned, practically all the time prior to this transfer, when we talked to local communities, the removal of the barrier. Since we know that the irrigation system owned by local communities without water is in fact only a cost, it has no value, we have been in intense contact since this spring. Because we would like to do so, we want to implement the already mentioned letter of intent in order to transfer this irrigation system to the local community. However, some of the works that we also finance from the Agricultural Land Fund, additional water treatment and so on, in short, some valves are changing and this equipment is being repaired. As I have already mentioned, we hope that in the new programming period, because interest is great, there will be an investment in the northern leg, an additional 2,000 hectares are foreseen in this irrigation. As regards the multi-purpose use of this accumulation in our ministry, in principle we have no problem, but this is more for the manager, i.e. for the Water Directorate. However, let me mention that it will also be necessary to seek these compromise solutions between operators, fishermen and also the need for irrigation, as water pumping from the upper to the lower accumulation also has its limitations in fisheries. Because there's nothing to help us empty out and have a problem somewhere else. In short, it will also be necessary to keep looking for those compromise solutions in this part, but when the recovery is complete, when the water reaches its maximum height in this accumulation, I think there will be room for a lot, but this is not a key issue or we are not the key ministry for this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Okay. The next question will be asked by Janez Moškrič, the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mags. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, the rest of you present! My mission question is about the operation of ML raw materials. In the last period, there has been a known story of waste collection. I would like to thank the Minister in advance for having responded to this issue, which is said to be a matter known to the general public, but I believe that the matter is so important that we can also highlight all aspects within Parliament. In fact, it is known that in 2018 the company obtained a permit to collect hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, then in 2019 these quantities from small quantities increased significantly, while in 2020 the locals and the Association of Landowners of Lower Kašelj - Podgrad - Stock in cooperation with the international environmental organisation Alpe Adria Green sent their first complaints to the competent inspection services. It is also known that these inspection services have already acted, but in recent times the matter has also escalated with additional imports, we will say, dangerous substances. So I'm asking the Minister to shed some light on this place: How was it authorised to collect hazardous and non-hazardous waste for ML raw material? What stage are we in now? Thus, the Ministry has also imposed specific and clear measures on inspection services. I think it's very positive. We all know that sometimes in Slovenia there is a lot of talk about the river There is money in the garbage, but I believe it is necessary to look from the point of view that in waste there is a great responsibility for those who want to do it and, finally, have to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question that is very up to date. ML raw material has a certificate of entry into the register of waste collectors but does not have an environmental permit. Of course, collection must be carried out in accordance with the waste collection plan, which also states that waste storage will only take place within an existing facility and a new covered and closed facility whose surfaces are concretely solid and waterproof. All waste handling must also be inside the facility. This is part of the plan, but the matter is different. The environmental and nature inspection was carried out last year in October 2020, which is said to have carried out inspections and found that the debtor had previously stored waste in the open, even though it should have been in a covered and closed facility. As a result of the irregularities identified, a decision was issued last November ordering the debtor to collect the waste in accordance with the plan. As this decision was not complied with by the debtor, the inspection under the Environmental Protection Act by a new decision imposed a ban on the operation of the device. Since the debtor does not respect a decision of certain inspection measures, an enforcement procedure has been introduced against the debtor in which a fine of EUR 20 000 has already been fixed for the debtor. The inspectorate also submitted to Arso a proposal to delete waste collectors' records in February this year. Of course, the debtor enforces all possible remedies to resist it, and his law firm has also launched everything — what would you say? – complaints to these findings, but this will not, of course, stop the State from continuing these procedures. As you have learned, there has been a recent survey or analysis of waste disposals, which, as I say, are being illegally disposed of there. If this shows that either health or people's lives are at risk, we will act immediately by removing this, by replacing it, otherwise we lack the legal basis for doing so and will continue with the fines. But as far as I know the matter – Friday, that is to say last week, I also had a meeting with Mayor Jankovic, who is also very active, I must say that there was also a meeting with the locals, where the Chief Inspector was also responsible, and I believe that the rehabilitation of this area or this case will begin very soon. However, this is only one in a number of cases where operators dealing with waste storage or other related services violate Slovenian legislation and then, of course, against decisions or actions taken by competent authorities, i.e. environmental inspections, use all possible remedies. So doing this, I hope, is very close to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you very much for all your activities and also for explaining everything. Maybe I haven't given in writing yet, but can you tell us how it is that, in fact, companies, especially public – in a specific case Toplarna Ljubljana concluded a contract in good faith that the company has everything arranged, but it quickly turned out by the locals that it isn't. How can we avoid such stories? As we know that the need for proper waste management in Slovenia is increasing as legislation at both Slovenian and European level is increasingly directed towards the proper storage of all waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Publicly published data, as well as depictions of this warehouse, also appeared to store the communal mud in the open. I prefer to explain what it means to store communal mud in the middle of the village. All of this is done in black, over-licensed. This case of municipal mud is very much related to the problem that has taken place in this area in recent years. In fact, until recently, Hungary had accepted municipal mud for fertilizer, and this had closed down. By the way, the removal and treatment of waste water and the treatment of municipal mud as a by-product are under the municipal economic public service. The country can only help, solve this problem. And this problem has accumulated among the municipalities and their public service providers in the past period. They addressed him by broadcasting communal mud as well — what would you say? – do not trust valuable economic operators, and then we have different phenomena such as Wills and so on, by the way, the Stock. Therefore, together with the Municipal Chamber, we have a clear plan to regulate Slovenia's self-sufficiency with mono-incineration also this recently adopted drawdown programme of the Climate Change Fund is also intended to do so. So we're gonna do this systemically. We have also partially resolved in the Environmental Protection Act, where we allow the possibility of mixing multiple waste according to the so-called Slovenian technical standards into a composite or construction product. Thus, part of the communal mud together with the electro-filter ash can also end up as a product. This is already being done and is an important measure in the light of the circular economy. Some congregations are also making decisions about drying and purchasing equipment, such as communal mud dryers. Because dried municipal mud is a good energy. The escalating problem has arisen in the last period due to the closure of borders, since it was previously exported and there was no problem. In this way, we also refer to allowing the community’s public service providers to have something to do with it, not to take advantage of such aspects as we have witnessed in the Reserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Zeljko Cigler, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Dear, distinguished Madam Minister in absentia! It has been announced that you will join us after 3 p.m. My question is about school and kindergarten, where a major shortage of epidemics occurred this year or last year. The data we received and discussed on the Education Committee of the National Assembly in 2019, which is before the epidemic, showed that without what was happening now, by 2023, we will need an additional 14 thousand 250 places in primary schools by the second year, the second entry. And that we will also need an additional kindergarten space, since we are with 1. 9. 2023 meters of playing area per child rises to four meters. And if these standards are not met, the number of children in kindergarten should be reduced. The last call for co-financing of municipalities by the State for the construction of kindergarten and primary school premises was launched in 2011, in short, very far back. As soon as the Ministry launched the call this spring of this year, what happened? Only 18 applications were granted from kindergarten applications submitted by Slovene municipalities. For primary schools, 93 applications were submitted to the municipalities and only 30 applications were granted. I'm asking the Minister: When will there be a new call for co-financing of investments in kindergartens and primary schools? What will be the amount of funds? What will you do about it? It provided an equal opportunity for those congregations or schools and kindergartens in them, who feel a severe lack of space that is already on the scene, and even more so in 2023. Unequally, due to the lack of money, 63 applications for primary schools were dealt with and 49 applications for kindergartens in Slovene municipalities. This is of particular interest to me, especially since we wanted to assist the Minister in adopting the budget or the 2021 rebalancing in order to increase funds for this purpose, to co-finance investments in schools and schools. On the contrary, we told the Government that the funds envisaged for this purpose, which were not used in 2021 because it was then an epidemic, should be transferred to 2021. I'm afraid that didn't happen. For this reason, I ask that the Minister explain the matter to me and the public with clear and short answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Cigler, do you insist on an oral response? [[Yeah.]] Okay, thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec, and the Minister of Finance, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister and sadly absent Minister of Education and Science! Let me immediately say that I would ask for a partial reply from the Minister, but I would ask the Minister to give me a written reply. In these days we witness that Slovenian sport unites our country, most likely the performances of our basketball players led by young Luka Dončić, who first joined the Olympic Games, the heroic approach of Primož Roglic and Tadej Pogačar, who is in the yellow shirt, at the race in France, Janja Garnbret at the matches of the Slovenian Cup and could also list. The success of our athletes and athletes is always as a country, the people of Slovenia are very proud. With this closure of society, restrictions on movement and others, I will say that sport and sports organisations have been among the very affected sectors, either meaningful or pointless anti-coron measures. In the light of the release of the Minister's measures and anti-Korona aid, I ask: Why was Slovenian sport abandoned by you compared to other industries, such as tourism? What measures and proposals proposed by athletes and sports organisations have you taken into account? What measures have you not taken, and why not? How much financial aid has Slovenia received compared to other sectors? Let me warn you, in a bad month, it's the Olympics. I hope you've made it possible for the athletes there to prepare well. I believe you've helped financially here, because it's probably unimaginable without your help. You once promised me in one of the PKPs that there was a chance that sport would get some funding. As I was aware or as I was following this, there was no compensation for any of these sports organizations, so perhaps even a word on the subject. It's on my side. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. I am also pleased with the success of Slovenian athletes, I am also pleased with those achievements, which mean presenting not only sports, but also the whole country in sports competitions, and of course also in the context of the upcoming greatest sports victories. Even on my part all congratulations on the success of these athletes. Here I would say, for the first time, that sport has not been abandoned compared to other industries. I think it's pointless, too, or that we're not going anywhere if we're going to evaluate and look at individual industries, at the end of each society, and so on, how much did one get, how much did the other, how much did one industry get, how much did one industry get? This crisis has been sectoral, which means that not all sectors and activities have been affected equally, some are more, some are smaller. Measures, including those that essentially meant that an activity could not work, were different to individual branches. Different because that's how the profession defined it, the medical profession. The medical profession proposed that I be corrected, but then the government took action. And, of course, the abolition of these measures is based on similar measures. There have also been a lot of discussions in the Government, and I must say here that temporary restrictions have also been imposed on sports activities, particularly in order to prevent an epidemic. Only because of this. The measures that helped sport were the following: I will count some of them: partly compensation for workers temporarily waiting for work in sport; exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income for self-employed persons in sport; partly compensation for the lost income of self-employed and also members during the period of quarantine. All those who worked in sports, even if they had child protection, were paid this week. It also applied to sports clubs, sports companies that rented real estate. It was an exemption from rent or part of rent for the use of public sports facilities to sports organisations. We co-financed protective equipment and facilities for disinfecting spaces in sports facilities, disinfection of sports props. We also financed sports organisations and the cost of testing all athletes from the budget. So from this point of view, what could be done this way, we also actually paid from the budget. That wasn't free, he paid the budget. From that point of view, I can say that. In this regard, I can also say that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, 366 000 719 euros have been paid for the non-implementation of public services. On the basis of Article 122, 1.6 million from the State budget was paid mainly for those competing under the auspices of sports associations. The fact that sports were not paid, I certainly cannot claim and I also told you how much money was actually paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Comrade Jew, do you request a supplemental response?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	I'll make it up to you. From your debate, I got the feeling, as I would say, that sport has not been neglected. If I understand correctly, sport has lost nothing. Even with what he got, he couldn't bring back what he lost. I'm telling you, this is probably where your opinions differ, because I come straight from sports, and I know what it looks like. It is true that some athletes have been compensated, especially because they are espei or independent athletes, but I do not think that the clubs themselves are, or I know that they have received nothing from the organizations themselves, sports associations. You may have taken care of the highest level, and those professional athletes who will attend Tokyo this year may indeed be for these top-notch athletes. To the others, I'll say it was a disaster. Do you have any information: What was the financial impact on clubs or organizers of sports events? I have information that these fixed costs have not been reimbursed. And we're also going to lose in the same payment of the defects, which in no way can be determined exactly how much it was. Perhaps another question, because now the Minister has joined: Does the minister have any information, what is the decline of participants in sports programmes, what is the decline in club membership, what is the state of quality of achievement in competitions? However, if you may not have an answer, and because I have asked for a written answer earlier, you may also give it to me in writing, so that I will not hunt you down on your left leg or because you have just fallen in. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you very much, and first of all, an apology. There was such a traffic jam on Vic, so I couldn't get there until 5:00. I'll explain something now. I've already heard the Minister's answer. Once again, I would like to say that in the framework of legislation to help the economy and the economy, direct and direct measures have also been addressed to sports-related content, both for sport and for recreational sport. If I just briefly summarize those key ones so you can see the difference. Part of the compensation was paid to workers on temporary leave, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income to self-employed persons in sport, partial reimbursement of lost income for self-employed persons and associates for periods of quarantine at home or because of inability to perform work, compensation for personal income due to short-term absence due to illness, partial subsidisation of reduced full-time work, guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to pay credit contracts concluded during the period of 12. 3. 2020 to 30. 6. 2021. Direct actions include: exemption from rent or part of rent for the use of public sports facilities to sports organisations in the field of work, co-financing of personal protective equipment and disinfectants in the space in sports facilities, reimbursement of test costs for covid-19 for all athletes participating in official competitions, trainers and other competitive staff. In the context of PKP9, I should like to remind you and thank you in advance – this is a voucher which citizens and citizens will also be able to pay for sport. In short, by the end of April this year, sport had received a good million euro just these covid support. We have consulted a lot on all these measures and initiatives. There's been a lot of justification. We have seen that under equal conditions and comparable circumstances we have put up sport with all other industries in the country. We have consulted a lot, but I believe that we have not been able to satisfy all our desires due to restrictions, including financial constraints. However, if what I understood happened, Member of the Jews, that there were certain athletes or sports who were unjustifiably disadvantaged, please ask them to complain about this and then we will check it through the relevant institutions, and it will be examined. Maybe it's just a forward forecast. In 2021, sport will also receive additional support under the regular funding mechanism, the annual state-level sport programme allocates 16.5% more resources than in the previous year and 3.7 million more resources, plus investments in co-financing of sport infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with me for a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	In fact, I am now giving up the written answer I previously requested. I will say that with this amount, somehow you said about a million euros, I certainly do not agree; and I will ask if we can discuss this at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be posed by Miha Kordiš to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by John Cigler to the King and the Minister for Finance of Mags. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, chairman. The law on long - term care has become a constant sentence of the last few governments, even under this government there is nothing quite different. The very contents of this law, which the Government has now tabled in the parliamentary procedure, will be subject to more ink, and several more discussions will take place. On the other hand, I would specifically focus on the crucial issue of the Long-Term Care Act, which is ultimately the reason why we have been waiting for it for so long. That's finance. In your marriage, you wrote to the government that by 30 April 2024 the government must adopt a law on financing long-term care. Any serious system arrangements, how to fund solidarity long-term care here and now, have fallen out of your law. This special law, which you foresee and will obviously have to be written and adopted by another government, should include the conditions of compulsory long-term care insurance, the basis for payment of contributions, the contribution rates and the debtors and so on. In short, even the root of the problem, why are the elderly in this country waiting so long for the Long - Term Care Act? However, until this date, which you have set in 2024, funding should be covered in accordance with the transitional provisions and the transfer of funds. According to you, the hole is to be covered from the state budget, something from the demographic fund, from the budget of the European Union and some other resources, and I am therefore interested in the following: Firstly, how much will be allocated from the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term care until the adoption of the specific law and how much from other sources for each year? After all, it is a permanent component of laws that come into the National Assembly, even in their financial consequences. And secondly, why are you unable to include funding in the law itself, since it is ultimately a fundamental component of the law? That's what I just mentioned. Why is this something you're transferring to the next government, but you're not saving here and now?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much for that question. I have witnessed some discussions about long-term care, which have always started around so that long-term care can not be provided to us – as you said – by some previous governments and so on – because there is no money. I say the other way around, it's money and you do the law and you do the services that are actually going to be delivered under long-term care. And of course also the timetable as to how it will be implemented; and money will and money is. Just because there's no money and everything, it just doesn't hold. The other thing that is of course important here is that these services are paid, the resources you listed, the honourable Member, some of these, of course, when they are actually done when they begin to be implemented. But it cannot happen that we first introduce an additional contribution, which has always been desired, and then we start to wonder what we will do and how we will do it. Here, it went the other way around this government. First, what will be done in this long - term supply, which services will be provided, and then additional funds will be provided, from 2021 to 5 million 500 about, in 2022 to 105 million. I am talking about the difference in terms of what is already going on or what is already being done in the context of existing pension or pension and health insurance services. It is said that in 2022 an additional 105 million about, in 2023 - 164 million, in 2024 - 308 million, in 2025 - 221 million. I am talking about extra money and it is also envisaged, as you yourself have said, that a special contribution should be made in 2024 in view of the financial situation at that time, given the need and so on. However, the difference is that this government is the first government to actually regulate and send it to the National Assembly for adoption and provide financial resources. Currently, from the state budget, from the European budget and from all other resources, from the demographic fund that you listed; and later, of course, on the basis of assessments of the contribution. So much for the financial angle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much. And Mr. Minister Brickler the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member Kordish! The president, Mr Andrej Šircelj, Minister of Finance, responded very specifically and presented the figures. Let me say that this government, this coalition, has already committed itself to the long-term supply contract of the Long-Terms Act and to the National Assembly. I believe that, after a fruitful debate, the law will also be definitively passed here and that, after more than ten years, we will finally do our duty to the most vulnerable fellow citizens and fellow citizens. In addition to the free choice of long-term care, the financial accessibility of long-term care services was also the starting point. And this guide is also contained in the provisions of the law. When we were looking for the most solid, just source of coverage for this difference, they are, as Shircel's colleague put it earlier, probably this source of budgetary resources, as we all contribute to them. We believe that this will also allow a good transition to a comprehensive long-term supply system, including stable long-term financing of these services.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, chairman. You say it's money. Then why isn't there funding? I basically asked about the funding regime, which was the basic bar in the adoption of every single law on long-term care. But then, Mr Shircelj, you gave me the figures on how much will go out of future budgets under the control of some future governments. In short, what you do is you adopt a law that basically has only a head and a leg, and the core part has fallen out of it, and you have no cover for the financial consequences of this law. You're just saying he'll cover the budget. This budget, which you are at this very moment besieging with appetites after the anti-social cap and with tax reforms, would be eaten together for an additional billion euros each year. This budget, which you continue to charge by filling the pockets of rich people, and working people get less money and empty promises of health and social protection rights every day, as well as the Long-Term Care Act. How's it going together? You are taking the budget on a large scale with antisocial caps, with budget cuts, with totally irrational spending for the richest; at the same time you say that the same budget of the Republic of Slovenia should bear the costs of long-term care. It doesn't work together. And that's why you don't tell me who's going to fund long-term care. There's a way, it's called solidarity funding, but you don't want to introduce it, because rich people, including capital, should also contribute, including employers. That's why I want to know: Why are you transferring funding to a special law? What kind of funding would we propose for ourselves? Does this approach of yours mean that we can all write in legislation that costs will cover the budget, and this concludes the debate? On what basis did you think that in the meantime the difference would be able to cover the budget at all and would not fall under your expenses? Do you suppose that long-term care will be covered by voluntary and supplementary insurance?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u250	There were a lot of things open here, even tax and so on, but okay. What I have to say is cover. The other thing I have to say is, it's money. Funds are provided in the budget. Thirdly, with everything you say, if you support tax reform or this change, you will provide workers with higher net income. That's the next thing. And thirdly, I have told you the numbers to be added from the budget money after each year; and of course this is based on long-term analyses and based on economic growth. And this economic growth will, of course, be created on the basis of entrepreneurs, businesses and so on, which contribute most to economic growth, including employment. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, and this budget money is also coming from this point of view. Once again, money is provided for this, as I have actually told you, or this additional resource is, of course, always possible. But it is not possible to create an additional source first, and then we would start to wonder when this money would be loaded somewhere, when it would be in a fund somewhere, and what would we do with it? First the service has to be performed, then it has to be paid. Such is some normal procedure in the economy and the economy and, of course, in all social systems, including the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much, President. I may simply say that, in addition to these coverages, the funds transferred from compulsory health and pension and disability insurance are also foreseen. The basis for long-term care is also provided. However, what the Minister of Finance said is a difference co-financed by the State budget. This government has sent 117th edition of the Long-Term Care Act to Parliament with a solid foundation, including a good financial plan, a basis for enabling the most vulnerable fellow citizens, citizens, the elderly, to reach a decent age. It is estimated that we have also done our duty to regulate the system of long-term care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, chairman. Long-term care of the elderly is something that needs additional financial resources, we all know, except obviously the government of Janez Janša, who pretends that there is no problem, so she sent in the parliamentary procedure the Long-Term Care Act without providing additional financial resources for this long-term care. He says the difference should be borne by the budget, the same budget that the government of Janez Janša wants to drain for the anti-social cap and tax breaks for the rich, thus taking the social state 1 million euros each year. It has long been necessary to consider how long-term care should be financed. I believe the government has done it, too, but it has not decided to act. Why? Since it is the only appropriate approach to reach proportionately, if not progressive, through the contribution rates; and to make more capital contributions through this system and more contributions from employers. It is not, however, that the cost of financing long-term care is passed on to workers who should enjoy this long-term care as their right at all. In fact, the government should make clear what form of funding it advocates. I should also say honestly why she was unable to write this funding into the law. And because I find this long-term supply, which has been kneeling for decades, to be sent to the National Assembly and for adoption, without having the solidarity, just financial resources provided from behind, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject. The government obviously won't, if it did, it was obviously behind closed doors. And it seems to have only been coordinated with the ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Commerce. Workers and old people can go take pictures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Marko Bandelli, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister! The hospitality and tourism industries were closed for more than eight months at the time of the epidemic. Many employees have already gone to other sectors because of uncertain conditions. Good organisation and also the Industry and Tourism Section at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry all the time, keep in mind the discriminatory treatment of the industry and require immediate coverage of the lack of traffic and regression under the intervention law. Since the second wave of the epidemic, the government has been promising both to the public and to the representatives of industry and trade unions that it will adopt as soon as possible a new package of legislation to assist catering and tourism. We also listened to these promises directly in the National Assembly by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Simon Zajc, at the 29th urgent meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs 10. 3. 2021 and then again at the Committee on the Economy 23. 4. 2021. The government has been on its website for 24 years. 3. victoriously announced that at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology they are preparing a law on intervention measures for tourism. The intervention law, which would eliminate the uncertainty of the guests and allow them to acquire start-up funds and grant regression, was needed by the hosts at the beginning of the second wave of the epidemic; however, we received it for treatment only before the deadline for paying the regression. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Why did you prepare the law for months when you realized that such a delay would be the delay in paying the regression to employees in the hospitality and tourism sector who had already received significantly lower incomes throughout the epidemic? The timely preparation of the law, for example by the end of April, would ensure that everyone pays the regression within the prescribed time limit, up to 1. Seven. 2021. I'm also interested, Mr. Secretary-General, in: Why does the intervention law not contain an aid measure in the form of a single supplement due to the impact of the epidemic on those activities which the Government has either banned or restricted by decrees? The question is so much more appropriate, as this measure has been promised several times by Secretary of State Simon Zajc. I want an answer, President, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Janja Slug, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, in early May this year, the results of the call for co-financing of infrastructure in kindergartens and primary schools were published. A total of €43 million was available. More than 160 projects have come into play, including projects for investment in Podgorci in Ormož, Slovenia, with a good million euros, as well as a school in Radenci, as well as more than one million euros. Why am I mentioning this investment? Just for comparison. In the Municipality of Celje there are 9 public primary schools, of which 3 are facing very severe spatial distress, i.e. the I. primary school and II. Primary school; III. The primary school or the primary school of Hudinj has been under unbearable spatial distress since 2017. And ever since then, parents have pointed to the spatial conditions of this school. So the first-class casinos are turned into classrooms, and the classrooms are even held in the primary school library. Hell, it was built for about 400 students, and today there are over 500. The Hudinja Primary School also applied for this tender and, of course, fell out of the co-financing projects. What is the link between the two investments I mentioned, Ormož and Radenci? For both projects, the same Member of the Slovenian National Party submitted amendments to the budget when the budget was adopted last October, i.e. in October 2020, with a precise explanation for the two projects in those municipalities. These two amendments were also adopted. So they already had funding in the budget. And yet, or just for that reason, I don't know, I'm asking, these two projects are part of the selected projects, the elementary school from Celje, which is the primary school of the devil. Let me add that these amendments were even for a slightly lower value than they are now intended for money after the call for proposals. I'm asking you: Why didn't the Devil's Primary School, these two, what a coincidence? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Perhaps first some general information to understand how, I can say, what you are asking me about the Slovenian country is a painful question now. For ten years, the state has not committed one euro alone to co-financing in kindergartens or primary schools. Looking at the city of all these buildings, I must say, your heart is breaking. I visit these locations on my own every week, and believe me, not only do these schools that you mentioned, there are many schools that are literally in a decomposing state and are carrying out the educational process. This is when we activated this call, of course more than a blood certificate — 160 different requests were received from 126 congregations. These are projects where we help to co-finance and help on the basis of the very clear marriage word or commitments that we have here, the percentage of which we can do so, and on the basis of what major criteria we are doing this. And so much so that I can summarize that you will understand, criterion 1, this brings 25 points, the current demographic picture and the enrolment of children. Criterion 2 brings 20 points, the readiness of the facility to invest; and criterion 3, also 35 points, also called other criteria, including certificates of the need for missing casinos, classrooms, other classrooms, evidence of the operation of wards in kindergartens, non-purpose facilities, the age of the facility and so on. And on the basis of these criteria, then the special expert committee ranks all requests and on this basis, we get the output we get. And when the results are known, all investors also have the possibility of complaining if they disagree with anything. The story that took place in this year’s invitation to tender is as follows. 66 different kindergarten facilities were applied for tender, 91 for primary schools and music schools, 3 for national communities. Of this we have confirmed 13 projects for kindergartens and 25 projects for primary education and music education 2 projects for national education. In other words, many educational institutions and municipalities that need assistance in co-financing have still fallen out. Aware of this fact, and aware of the situation on the ground, the government will extend the possibility of receiving a co-financed share by the end of this summer and allow all other unspecified projects that have met all the conditions, as requested, to receive a co-financed share. This is the commitment we have made, which the mayors of all Slovene municipalities also know and will be repeated and assured at the meeting which the government will have on Wednesday morning. And once again, the situation of these schools and kindergarteners in need of assistance in co-financing, either for new constructions or for renovations, is alarming. I believe that, rightly, those who have opted for aid in the last ten years have a question and a thought of why it was necessary to act in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Fellow Servant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u262	I repeat, the criteria you listed, so I also listed this data, in this specific school in Celje, the Primary School of the Devil, more than 500 students enrolled, the school was built for 400. The investment is so ready, it's already in construction. Why am I saying this? Because I've been looking at what the criteria are. And why am I mentioning these two projects? However, as the basis for co-financing was provided for them in the NRP, they are now included in this call, where only €43 million was awarded, one of them is even the last to catch that last point of entry. And so, of course, the question arises whether these two projects were privileged on the basis of everything I have just said compared to all the other projects that have been reported. And they gained a share in co-financing, even though they were included in the budget lines; each with precisely this explanation that it is this particular kindergarten in Ormož and this very elementary school in Radenci. In Ormož is the mayor of Esdees, we know that in Radenci there is Mr Leljak, how he is connected to SDS and New Slovenia. Here we are talking about a school where this particular need for all these criteria has been demonstrated since 2017. This is about classes, not the gym. It is a spatial hardship when casinos are turned into classes, when teaching takes place in the library, when children from this school environment are transferred not only to Fran Roš primary school, but also to Ljubecno, when it was necessary to arrange school trails, to build lying cops and so on. So more than justifiably co-financing for the School of the Devil, I am talking about these two projects, which have now eaten up 2 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u264	The honourable Member of the Servant, if I were to decide, this would be an act of policy. This was the decision of the calling commission, which was professionally chosen, which decided on the basis of the legally defined criteria that I presented to you. All institutions also had the possibility of appeal. They also have a chance to get explanations today, they always get them if they have any questions. Please, if there's anything else at stake here, or if there's any need to explain, either the mayor or the school's representatives should come forward. At the same time, because you may have listened to me, this school will also receive funding for co-financing in this year, as it would have been if it had been selected in the first round, because all schools and all the kindergartens that signed up for this call are in bloody need of assistance in co-financing either their new constructions or the renovation of their premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Fellow Servant, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Of course, I propose that this be discussed, because, of course, there is a suspicion that not all projects have been in an equal position. I also believe that it is right for Members to receive concrete information on how these criteria have been taken into account, how it is possible that these two projects, which have in fact already had funding from other budget lines, have nevertheless been included in this call; and on the basis of what point that they have been classified, one of them has already been classified, i.e. Radenci to the 25th place. Here we are talking about school, as I said before, where there is more than obvious, more than necessary, since 2017 we have been dealing with this problem, the children are literally displaced after all other schools; however, such a project has not been able to be co-financed. That is why, of course, I propose a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 7 July, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Nataš Sukič, Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The Minister-designate, the National Vaccination Strategy, the key document of the country on vaccination, has designated public health homes and hospitals for the vaccination centres, but in Slovenia, there are also selected private concessionaires who vaccinate their patients without, for example, showing this from the official vaccination documents. Among them is the Health Institute owned by the influential surgeon Mark Bitenc, who is publicly known to be close to the SDS. At the time when the vaccine was still missing, as we know, the Ministry of Health arranged for the Ministry of Health at the beginning of the period when the Ministry was headed by the Prime Minister before you arrived. The information to be given to vaccination against covid-19 in his institution, although it was not on the official list of vaccination sites, was confirmed by Bitenc to the media itself. The Health Inspectorate also confirmed that they are leading the procedure against the Bitenčev Institute for alleged vaccination irregularities. In the second half of April, Bitenec was to be vaccinated with a person who did not fall under the national strategy or who did not belong to any of the priority vaccination groups at that time. But I don't know if the inspection procedure has been completed in the meantime, according to my information. In short, direct to the eyes will be an example of these selected concessionaires who are carrying out the vaccination, although they are not listed in the official vaccination documents; even more so, the Ljubljana Health House has been forced to give vaccines to this Health Institute, so owned by the mentioned Bitenc, despite the fact that the vaccine was lacking by them. According to their own statements, fewer vaccines have been received from the National Institute for Public Health, NIJZ. And yet, at the request of the Ministry, they had to deliver the vaccine to the Beatenac. So I'm interested in your comment, Mr. Secretary-General: Why is the role of these selected concessionaires in the vaccination of the population hidden in official documents? What will be the penalties in the event of vaccination of persons who were not scheduled for vaccination at that time in relation to the plan? Why was the Ljubljana Health Home forced to resign to the concessionaire Bitenc when the vaccine was lacking by him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mrs Natasha Sukić! The national vaccination strategy against covidu-19 has one basic objective: to reduce covida-19 mortality and to improve human health by preventing severe diseases. At the same time, of course, we aim to make it possible for the health care sector to cope with covido-19 and at the same time to allow society to open up and restart the economy in the form and in the way we knew it before the epidemic, to create education, transport and everything else we know in society. The strategy shall ensure an adequate number of vaccination centres, vaccination centres and mobile vaccination units. The main objective of the strategy is to bring the vaccination closer to each individual in the country, because we know that we must pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups, which, of course, are most at risk from the point of view of society, so that all rights and opportunities are also exercised in them. In recent times, when the vaccine is sufficient, it is of course that we have made it possible to select the vaccine. On the part of the injectors themselves, they shall enter the vaccination data into the eRCO programme within 48 hours at the latest. The National Vaccination Strategy lists the vaccine centres by name, but at the same time it also identifies their role in coordinating vaccination in their area and, where appropriate, ordering, storing and transmitting vaccines. During the period when the vaccine is sufficient, our aim is to mobilise all available capacities in health care in Slovenia and to bring them closer to the population of vaccination, and this will be done as quickly as possible. Of course, this has proved to be the fastest and most effective option if vaccination is carried out or carried out directly in the field, in each congregation, in every place, in each hospital, and also in the case of personal physicians. Since this vaccination organisation requires a larger number of mobile teams, the Ministry has called on all health care homes and concessionaries in areas where health care homes cannot ensure that they are involved, and in this way we will provide as many mobile teams as possible to reach every citizen in Slovenia and allow him to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Thus we have, for example, in the diocese valleys of Selska Valley, where the majority of vaccinations were actually carried out by concessionaires in health homes. They set up a network and allowed the valley to actually intersect. The fact is, the national strategy defines the vaccination centres. However, vaccination centres are obliged to organise vaccination within the public network – either in the vaccination centres or in the form of mobile units – so that I will not be too long, once again, the National Strategy defines all of this, gives all powers to the vaccination centres and therefore it is up to them to ensure that effective vaccination is carried out optimally with the assistance of local communities and other stakeholders of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you, Minister. Yes, yes, thank you for explaining the situation to me as well. I came back in time a little bit. This Institute of Health was not officially informed, and yet I explained to you earlier what was happening, that the Ljubljana Health Home was even forced to give up part of its vaccines to this concessionaire, who officially – and I do not understand why this is hidden. That's what I was asking you. It is unacceptable that the Ministry, under the direction of Janez Janša Bitenčev, then placed the institution literally ahead of the needs of the Ljubljana Medical Home, which is responsible for the vaccination of 170 thousand patients who are cared for by 110 of their doctors and 58 concessionaries. It's not a problem when you said that they determine; but they didn't set it themselves, and it was hidden. In addition, the Ljubljana Health House covers the target occupational groups that the national strategy then designated as priorities. In this unusual decision to redirect vaccines to Bitenac, one of the answers to the question is probably why members of the most endangered covid-19 groups in the Ljubljana area have waited longer for vaccination than in some other parts of Slovenia. You've described good cases, and that wasn't a good case. Unfortunately, this is not the only case. For example, the Ministry has been under pressure for a long time also on the Ljubljana Health House, that part of the vaccine should be waived by another private concessionaire, that is, the ambulance Remain of Iga led by Stanislav Ostanek, the SDS candidate and NSI candidate at the local elections for Mayor Iga, from which comes, for example, Ambassador SDS Alenka Jeraj. And then the rest was also a member of the Health Committee of the SDS. And that, Minister, I ask: Is that corruption or is that corruption? Are there still some secret records of vaccine recipients? Are you still supplying the vaccine to selected concessionaires, even if the vaccine strategy does not, say, cover them? And if so, why?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Here again, perhaps I should explain that vaccination centres are the ones responsible for carrying out vaccinations in local communities. Concessionaires are part of a public network and are also mobilised within the vaccination centres in order to be included in the implementation itself. We know that Ljubljana is large, as you said, it is the largest vaccination centre. We understand that everyone is involved in cutting as many people as possible. And by the Ministry of Health, no concessionaire was ever invited for the purpose of partying or any other affiliation, but only from the point of view of the rapid upheaval of the population, and this was called upon throughout Slovenia, concessionaries who are on the public network to actively engage not only in preventing and treating covid-19, but also in vaccination. And we have only two facts before us that it is the health of our inhabitants and the life of our inhabitants. The most effective measure to combat the epidemic and prevent future consequences related to it, or to prolong this epidemic, is vaccination. Therefore, once again, my request to everyone, if anyone is not yet, and whoever listens, that of course we all approach the vaccination and that we all be vaccinated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukič, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u276	Yes, I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate, however. Mr. Secretary, I agree with you that of course you need to be intercepted and everything else, but this bitenca remains a matter of mist. The latest vaccination strategy has determined that vaccination sites, as you yourself said, are health homes, general hospitals, both university clinical centres, the Oncology Institute, can also be vaccinated by the Slovenian Armed Forces, the National Institute for Public Health, which also supplies vaccines to all of them. Bitenc, for example, does not have any contract with this Ljubljana Health Home. None. And yet he had to give up the bloodthirsty needed vaccines at that very moment to this Beatenk because he came from the Ministry before you, because it's not your fault. And yet he was given, as it were, this vaccine, but he's not the only one. For example, private Medical Center Medic, run by Metka Zorc, an influential doctor, again with excellent connections on the Slovenian right. It's just a coincidence. In January, when the vaccine was coming to Slovenia after drops, Medic received, for example, 300 doses of Pfizer’s vaccine, which according to the National Strategy was intended to vaccinate people on the first front of the fight against the epidemic, i.e. health workers employed in nursing homes and their caregivers. The most problematic and unfair thing is that not all inhabitants of Slovenia had the same opportunity to receive vaccination at the time. Now the situation is radically different. Now all of a sudden it's too much vaccine, then it wasn't. The vaccination regime in Slovenia has somehow strengthened this discrimination from the start. If the national strategy in the first version was still a document that tried to set objective criteria for the order of priority groups, such as health care, nursing homes, age criteria and so on, it soon became a list of the wishes of individual social or even interest groups that had strong lobbyists in the government, for example. In these three months, the strategy has changed, let's say, four times, and we know that. At the top of the list, however, the diplomats turned to politics and so on, not to mention. In short, the result was that, for example, according to the number of vaccinateds among the older population, I think, still among the last in Europe, at least two months ago, I have not had the latest data. And because the situation has been kind of chaotic all the time, of course, one of the results is this also in this chaos, that people are getting scared, skeptical. And of course now we have a situation where they don't want to be vaccinated enough. I think we bloodyly need one serious debate and we can also tell why there have been such anomalies, openly and without hiding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 7 July in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Primož Siter has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Health Mr Janez Poklukar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, good afternoon! I will ask about the management of the epidemic and about the strategic development of care for the elderly in nursing homes. During the epidemic, homes were drawn to the shortest extent or suffered the most damage. The epidemic spread uncompromisingly, as we have already pointed out before, the network of public homes for the elderly was structurally irregular before the epidemic, was humane, financially malnourished and unprepared for any extraordinary or exceptional circumstances. During the spread of the virus, homes for older people across the country have become into nursing hospitals due to government measures regarding the establishment of red and gray zones, and all users of the home have been deprived of quality care. Employees in homes, not to mention them, worked in inhumane circumstances, in too long shifts with too little equipment, no time for lunch and rest, and so on. The professional public, i.e. providers of care, homes, management and employees in their homes, their umbrella organisation – the Community of Social Institutions and, at the end of the phase, the Levica Group has been alerting us to this unsustainable situation during the epidemic since its inception. We have found that last year the government has reacted inadequately, inappropriately, too late, too unprofessionally from the summer to the new wave. Measures such as keeping the sick in their homes, delaying payment of the red-zone allowance and, I stress, excluding the professional public in making key decisions has not achieved the desired effect, says the epidemic's mitigation; but, on the other hand, they have done more harm than good. And these are also the final reasons why Slovenia found itself at the bottom of this epidemic or at the top of all the sad and red statistics. And now there's a new summer, or new wave or wave of epidemics, the population's splintering is not yet assured, so I'm asking you questions: Are public homes now, at this stage of the epidemic, financial, human resources and infrastructure ready to control the next wave? How do they assess the evaluation control of the epidemic in the past or emerging season? And the third and very important question is, in what way do the ministries now communicate with the following stakeholders, with operators, i.e. with homes and their employees, with the umbrella organisation – the Community of Social Institutions, with users, with relatives, with the civil society concerned and, once again, with the epidemiological expertise? I must admit that for someone who has deepened into this issue over the past two years, I am concerned about this informational calm that has prevailed in all areas of long-term care now, with the announcement of the Long-Term Care Act. And I want to know: What is the assessment of the situation, and what are the plans for strategic development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Minister, who wants the first word? Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Primoz Siter! Thank you, of course, for this important question. However, to refresh, first answer to the second part of the question, what all as an evaluation was made for the fact that, even in the homes of older citizens, the matter ended as well as what you pointed out at the outset, the network and infrastructure from the point of view of the social welfare institutions had been launched a long time ago. At national level, we coordinated and prepared recommendations for the prevention and control of coronary infections. We have set up a working group of coordinators, regionally working with social security institutions. More than 150 workshops have been provided for the proper use of personal protective equipment, more than 40 workshops for the proper use of oxygen applications. Then the workshops for psychosocial support were held in social welfare institutions. Covid-19 care units have also been established for primary cases in hospitals where patients have been moved or have been sick from welfare institutions. We took care of the hospital treatment of everyone at the time of the epidemic who needed it. Procedures for the acquisition and training of volunteers have also been developed. Afterwards, professional support was provided to the social welfare institutions by the epidemiologists of the National Institute for Public Health. At the time of adoption of the National Vaccination Strategy, we also carried out according to this priority vaccination in the homes of older citizens. An invitation was also issued for the purchase of mobile residential or filter units and equipment. The key thing before I give my word to my colleague Brickler, who also has some numerical data on this, is that at this moment what can be done is that social security providers are as much as they can be intercepted. And just doing the vaccination in social welfare institutions is an indication of how effective the treatment is and how the epidemic stops. Therefore, on my part here, as far as controlling the next fourth wave and, of course, also the threat of delta variants is concerned, is full vaccination. And what we can see for as long as we can, ever since the glass, this vaccination in our homes, is the only real and effective fight against the epidemic. As far as the other things are concerned, I will not be too long, but so much so that the Long-Terms Act gives a strategy and a vision that we also infrastructure, human resources and organizationally put things on the table in a way that, of course, we are not affected by any new epidemic in the same way that we witnessed them this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Siter, thank you for the question. My predecessor, Comrade Poklukar, has already stated much of this. Let me get to the bottom of this, so what did we do then? I can say that these matters are now also checked with field visits and with all meetings with social security agencies and confirmed as effective and good solutions that have been adopted. I would point out €26 million for additional employment in nursing homes. In some ways, we have made it possible during the transition period, i.e. during that most difficult epidemic period, and in the transition period to the Long-Terms Act, to temporarily increase staff standards. Most homes for the elderly have thus well strengthened their teams and burdened existing employees. I can also say that we have helped to establish red zones in institutions or outside institutions where all stakeholders at local or regional level have worked well together, these have been successful stories. Let me also point out some who unselfishly offered their premises, such as Topolšica, the House of the Elderly of St Agatha. Here, too, we have written good stories of solidarity and help these most vulnerable ones. But I'll probably have a chance next time to add something.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Of course, you're a good judge of character. But the voice from the field or the professional public, which has been present in this process of controlling the epidemic or addressing the epidemic challenges, is largely not the opinion. And as one of the main reasons for the poorer assessment of the control of the epidemic in homes with a finger, it points to some will of the government that did not take into account the voice of the profession. And without taking into account the people who are actually involved in the decision-making process. And this is a key problem of a structural nature, which is particularly in the light of the strategic development of this area more than important. Minister Cigler King, you had an important meeting with the Community of Social Institutions in early May, at which you or your colleagues were presented with some of the main guidelines that you would like to provide in the development of long-term care: human resources standards, capacity in grey zones and so on, nine points is, a list of needs for public network expansion, epidemic supplements, methodology for pricing, minimum technical requirements for operators, these were their points. I look anxiously at the last year and a half, and I see that the pattern in the government of Janez Janša appears at all levels of dissuasion and decision-making. And now I'm only really interested in one thing: To what extent do you allow the Community of Social Institutions to take part in decision-making in shaping the strategic development of long-term care, given that we are accustomed to repeating this practice of dissuasion, as confirmed by Beović and Fafangel for the last time at the hearing, and that the Community of Social Institutions has already left negotiations with the Government? In each work process, it seems to me that evaluation and the pouring of pure wine are crucial and that the voice of experts is especially heard in advance. So how do you cooperate with the expert?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler King, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Mr Siter, for this supplementary question. It is a pity for such ease of unilaterally negative representation of the situation, because when I walk and visit social security institutions on the ground, the responses of these social security institutions, their management and employees are completely different. I think the voice of these is also the voice of the professional public. In the last week, I visited the House of Older Citizens of Tezno and the House of Older Citizens of Poljčana, the Unit of Slovenska Bistrica, where we have also opened or set up projects to help social institutions in response to this epidemic. Responses to all measures taken by this government, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, namely, two ministries, which share the responsibility to manage homes for the elderly and other welfare institutions, have been considered extremely positive. Our team's response and cooperation with the expert were historically good, according to them. I'm proud of all the teams, because the professional public is all who work in this area and have spent a hard time caring for the most vulnerable. Maybe I'll touch another part of your first part of the question. In mid-June, the Ministry of Labour, together with the Community of Social Institutions, prepared a questionnaire on the fragmentation of residents and employees in homes for elderly and special welfare institutions. We sent him to all the contractors, public institutions and concessionaries. According to the data obtained, the proportion of vaccinated residents in elderly 83% homes has not yet been included in those who have been covid-19 and have not been vaccinated for this reason. The share among employees is about 50% and is not yet covered by those who will still be vaccinated because they are over and have not yet been vaccinated. This percentage will therefore be even higher once the patients have completed their vaccination period. Homes for the elderly have also, together with regional coordinators, previously mentioned by a colleague of the Minister of Health, developed protocols of conduct in the case of infections and we still provide reimbursement of costs for the strategic supply of protective equipment for a month to the social security institution. Let me also mention that outside of mid-June there is an invitation to invest in infrastructure to strengthen the resilience of institutional protection providers, the so-called React, with which we will specifically help homes for older people, especially those with completely inadequate, obsolete infrastructure that has been neglected for the past ten years to strengthen and prepare for possible new ones. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Managing the epidemic is a key opportunity, an evaluation opportunity to develop a long-term care and home care strategy. In the future, if everything was so right, then I am personally interested in why experts are getting out of communication with the Government, either Dr. Fafangel or the Community of Social Institutions has already left. But good, so we have two challenges in the area of home care. So one is the epidemic, last season. According to a number of evaluators, it has not been successful. Red zones didn't actually work on the ground. People were leaving, employees were going to work in other cafes or abroad. The result was a record number of death and a system with which we cannot commend ourselves, hand to heart. The second problem is therefore of a systemic nature. The Long-Term Care Act, which I mentioned at the outset, which now swallows all of this, to say the media space of public debate, is set quite unsystemically at the core point. And that's that he doesn't have clear funding parameters. Because even if the ministries present the numbers in a way that they invest more in long-term care, or with these numbers, Minister Cigler King, who you have just presented, we need to understand that the system, as set up by your government, is unendurable. Why? Because basically, the system that is based on privatisation is an elephant in companies. Private companies will never put public good or public interest at the top of their priorities, which is logical. A private company pursues the objectives of profit. The public undertaking does not have this burden and can follow public good or public interest, as is already evident. On average, prices in private homes were higher on average than in public before the epidemic. And now that the water is flowing into the throat, people are waiting, employees are leaving, it is crucial that the government make wise and prudent decisions. The solution of the profession as well as the proposal of the profession is investing in a strong public network, which is more cost-effective, more user-friendly. That is not to say that the only saved solution in the market is to leave this solution to some private providers, nor is it true, because if the government has a 900-million-year hole in the tax breaks budget at this point, it is not the devil to find anything for long-term care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Siter. I apologize, but I did not see a procedural proposal in your three-minute performance, so we will not be able to place it in a series of procedural proposals. Now let's get on with it. Mr Boštjan Koražija will also ask his question to Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u290	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Mr Poklukar, I don't know if you remember, in March I asked you a question about the regulation of the evaluation of the work of medical personnel, which is their salaries, norms, standards and such things. At that time, you also claimed that you would move very quickly and try to solve this issue, knowing for yourself that there is a large rash or departure of this medical staff who are leaving their jobs in hospitals and even in nursing homes as paramedics or nurses. I will just read one part of Ms. Monica Azman, who is the current state of affairs in Slovenia regarding medical personnel, says: “Now the devil has actually taken a joke. The nurses leave from their profession abroad, retire, and there are no new places to be emptied.” That's what the President of the Medical and Grandmother's House says, Mrs. Monica Azman. He goes on to argue that it is alarming to be called by colleagues from a regional hospital; and says that she received five cancellations from nurses in one day. And he adds, "Anyone who goes is too much." I couldn't agree more. Even today, Mr President of the Government has already announced this – I hope not – fourth wave of the epidemic. I don't want or hope to avoid him, whatever. And in this case, the question or the search for responsibility, or even in your case, is to find solutions for this medical staff and their employment: How will you prevent medical personnel from leaving the profession or branch? How are you going to get these salaries, their standards, their standards, to have really better conditions, because it's also one of the main burning things that makes this medical staff leave the hospitals? Once again, I ask you: How are you going to deal with this problem that you know is, in my opinion, one of the health problems at the moment? I also want to know: If and what have you already agreed with the unions or with the representatives of this medical staff? Have you already agreed on certain changes in standards or how you will provide them with better conditions and better wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Korazzi! We have already discussed this subject and this is an extremely important topic, because this moment, although health care representatives are the most numerous profile in Slovenian health care, is, of course, the biggest challenge in terms of lack of care. First of all, it is necessary to create adequate and sufficient capacity to create or provide new personnel, because we know that this moment is a generation of new nurses who are practically less than those who are going to retirement. A sufficient number of educational capacity is the first starting point. Of course, the next step is extremely important, and this is to keep everyone in Slovenia educated also in Slovenia because you have pointed out that a number of people from health care have gone abroad in the last period. When I walk through Slovenia and, of course, I meet representatives of all levels of health care and all the profiles, we note above all that this moment is the largest drop in health care personnel from the workplaces where the tour service takes place, it is said in three shifts, in the most difficult jobs in the workplace, where health care is usually carried out in one tournament, usually without end-weeks and holidays. Here is the challenge of how these difficult parts better evaluate and reward. As to the starting point for nurses to stay in hospitals like this, the difficulty of the work they perform is first of all. Secondly, the working conditions and the use of infrastructure and equipment amounting to 85%, which certainly represents one of the factors that have an important impact on the fact that employees do not feel as expected in jobs, and of course they are looking for better opportunities. The fourth aspect is, of course, the aspect of governance and organisational climate. We have to admit that. In public health institutions where we have bigger problems, we also have bigger challenges with the organisational climate and with the establishment of the institution, so that leaders will also have to be systematically raised. Here, health care does not come out of anything, but it is also about other health profiles. In general, in health care, we need to set up structured leadership for people who are committed to this and who know the processes and just setting up an organisation. Then we get to standards and norms and pay. We've already sat with the unions on all of these topics, the last of the days before, we set ourselves a time stamp, so we're doing it. Even today, I have signed conclusions to the working groups for the preparation of standards and standards, the extension of the period in which this needs to be prepared by 1 August of this year, by speeding up our work in this sector. Of course, our goal is to make, in addition to standards and standards, which are at least at present large insufficient and will need to be set according to the time in which we are higher, to at the same time make an action plan when we will achieve them. So there are quite a few challenges for the groups. Standards and norms for the pharmaceutical sector are currently being set. And we said that we would move on with these, and the others would normally conclude or be ready in the next few days, as I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Koraji, please choose a word to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u294	Your Honor, thank you again for your word. I'll ask you again directly. In your explanation, you stated that you are actually on a good path or on a better path to finally better conditions for those employees or even better wages. I must admit that I have thoroughly read your interviews and statements from before the time of your ministry, and I must admit that you were one of the very few ministers who, quite directly, showed sympathy and determination to help or to realize that the hospital or health institution is essentially a matter of teamwork and that nurses or nurses are extremely important or equivalent in these processes. So once again, I'm going to ask you directly: Can we expect to see a concrete improvement in the medical staff situation by the fall, according to these standards, wages? I'll just say a few more numbers for you right before the end. As many as 300 nurses or medical personnel have left our largest hospital, from the 3,000 700 sisters available. Then the problem is in the next. The sisters you treat in these regulations are capable of work, they say without limit, such as age, parenthood, disability, and knowledge. Also in terms of gender equality and equality in our society, I think it will also be necessary to rewind these norms and allow nurses in general to be treated equally. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for that additional question. Of course, they are crucial here to continue, standards and norms, so that working groups, both professional and trade unions, continue to work. I believe that during the summer they will take important steps. In addition, let me say that in these days a complementary document on the competences of health care prepared by healthcare will come in order to address certain organisational problems that have arisen from this point of view. Then, in the Law on Emergency Measures, which was proposed in these days in the National Assembly, or also includes an extension of the period within which nurses who have acquired competences are required to attend school, the period should be extended by one year. As far as pay is concerned, we are preparing a starting point for discussions with the trade unions on the collective agreement, while we are counting on us to reach the starting point of the health pay law by the end of the summer, as we must be aware that nurses in Slovenia now have an average lower salary than other nurses, or that this wage is lower than the average wage of the seven-hundred-and-seven European Union. But what's important is this is the fourth wave. The rupture must be better if we don't want the fourth wave to be gone. Why is this crucial? This is crucial so that we do not deal with the epidemic, but with the challenges that have remained before the epidemic or that the epidemic has unleashed. I would like all of us to take an active approach to vaccination as much as possible and to have time, energy and resources to actually address the problems that we are talking about today and are on the tray and call for solutions; because the epidemic, to the extent that we know it, will take every effort to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Procedural proposal, Mr Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u298	Yes, however, I propose that, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in this National Assembly, we hold a debate in response to the Minister. When it comes to medical personnel, even nurses, I have a lot of feeling that ministers have been appointed – and I hope that you will not be too – only ministers for doctors; and that you are aware that the Ministry of Health is a very broad concept or the concept of work. From this point of view, I would also like a debate to take place here in the National Assembly. And please, I also place it on the Minister's heart to be aware that he must also be aware that he is not only the Minister for Doctors but, above all, the Minister of Health; and also to become that Minister for Medical Personnel or Nurses. Before he began his ministry, he also faithfully represented and followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 7 July in the framework of the vote. Now she has the word of Mrs. Matey Udovč. She will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u300	The development strategy of Slovenia 2020–2030, adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 December 2017, highlights, inter alia, learning for and throughout life, a high productive economy that creates added value for all, a healthy environment and a high level of cooperation, competence and effective governance. Under the objective of low-carbon and sustainable management, it highlights environmental responsibility and adaptation of jobs and work organisation to demographic change and technology and climate change. Most of us are aware that the great advantage of Slovenia is exceptional beauty, diverse and relatively preserved nature. It is also a great advantage to visit a number of local and foreign tourists who choose Slovenia as a tourist destination. Due to these facts and the available tourist infrastructure and culinary capacity, I am convinced that the top tourist offer in all areas and at all levels of tourism is a concrete response to the presented objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia 2020-2030. In order to be able to implement the top tourism service in the circular economy and to be optimal in the protection of climate change, tourism workers should also be highly educated. I am of the opinion that such a profession requires very broad and wide-ranging visibility and other competences afforded by high school education. For example, tourist guides in their work represent the history of Slovenia, provide information from various fields – economies, cultures, sports, politics and so on – and other sights of Slovenia. In order to make education more specific for the purposes of the objectives described above, the general education programme should be added or adapted to the special skills elements relating to tourism activities and a new high school programme should be prepared for the Tourist High School. I'm asking you: Do you personally and professional services at your ministry favor the establishment of a new school curriculum for the Tourist High School? What activities will you carry out to implement the proposal? Under your powers, will you order the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a new educational programme for the Tourist High School? When should the programme be ready for adoption at the General Education Council? Assuming the answers are positive, I also wonder: When is it possible to log into this program? In what way will you help interested secondary schools within the Community of secondary schools for hospitality and tourism in Slovenia in the invitation to a new high school program Tourist high school? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of the Udovč, thank you very much for the very specific questions to which I will also answer you very specifically. Yes; personally and also employees at our Directorate favor such an idea. The reasons why, you have given a great deal in the introduction to your question of the mission, so that I will now describe to you all the activities already under way and what we all expect will lead to a positive outcome. We have met with representatives of the Community of Central Schools for Gastronomy and Tourism of Slovenia on 13 May this year at the Ministry's premises and have discussed ideas, reasons, activities and already on the draft subject for the preparation of the new Higher Education Programme of the Tourist High School; with the desire to see the light of the world with the first implementation in the school year 2022-2023. On the basis of this meeting, which I must say is strongly supported by assessments of the need by the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Association of Hotelers of Slovenia, we then formally received a request to the Ministry on 7 June this year for professional assistance in the preparation of this educational programme and then submitted this request in the light of the professional competences of 18 June to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education. According to the information I have from the institution, I am talking about oral information here, not yet about written documents, but I believe that it is true because we have so far had very, very correct and professional cooperation, this proposal will also be received by the Slovenian Institute of Education Green Light by the end of July this year. On this basis, further activities related to the composition of the expert group will then be carried out, which will then draw up a full programme proposal and, of course, curricula for individual subjects. And then it is expected that this proposal will receive further approval or consent first on the part of the State Commission for a general graduation, and then also on the basis of confirmation of the General Education Council, both the programme and individual curricula. And this is what we want to do at the latest in February 2022, because this allows us by law to sign the program in 2022/2023. I will personally advocate for the process itself to move quickly, because you know that we are already applying for admission places for programs – high school, high school – in December for the next school year, which means that I would like this process to move quickly precisely for this reason, so that we can rescind places safely for this program. However, there is now a decision, a direction towards being one of the orientations of professional high schools. The most related existing is professional high school in the field of economics, so that this part would then be expanded. As it is said, if we will all have a lot of knowledge of the importance and necessity of calling for such a professional high school, then I believe that the first students and students will already be able to enter 2022/2023.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your question, Mrs. Udovč? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you, Minister Simona Kustec. Thank you very much for your answers. I am pleased that you have recognized tourism high school as something good, which Slovenia also needs to go hand in hand with time on the tourism education programme. Thank you very much, you have given me positive answers and believe me, and I will also follow that we may pursue these goals with common strengths and powers and that we will bring future students into the new high school program Tourist high school. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I assume you have nothing to add, Madam Secretary. Then we move on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Natasa Sukič. She will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, hello! Minister, I am sorry to say this, but there is no doubt that your actions as well as the actions of the Prime Minister and the actions of the Director-General of the Police when, following the intervention of the police against neo-Nazi yellow vests in the Prešeren market in Ljubljana, you issued a request for internal control of police work. But there is no doubt that there is a politically motivated pressure on the autonomous work of the police. Of course, you're trying to disprove this, get rid of this opinion of the public regarding the unacceptable involvement of politics in police control, and to that end, you've invented a kind of ridiculous argumentation trick, if the police have done the right thing only if they have responded to the call from Jenul. Please, Minister, as I do, you know as well as I do that we do not simply have to be manipulative in concluding that there are some two events that are essential for a causal link between them. So you can't just assume from Jenul's appeal that the police acted because of him, because the event, for the first time, is not necessarily causally connected; and regardless of their time co-existence. Otherwise, it is totally irrelevant when the police acted — sooner or later. It is important that it prevents provokers from causing violence and that this violence escalates. That's what's important, and that's why we should thank the police more. The Slovenian Police Union gave you and Dr. Anton Ola's CEO the video, and I also looked at it myself, from which the whole event is clearly visible. The arrival of a group of yellow vests, the fact that the police stood up between the two groups to prevent violations of public order and peace, the police did not intervene as instructed by Jaše Jenul. Then the fact that the police did not act until the violation of public order and peace began on the right side of the monument, where the two violators who started the violation were also very visible on the video. And it can also be seen that the police acted professionally, legally and effectively and that the group was removed only after the outbreak of the breach by members of the yellow vests. Minister, what you're doing is absolutely unacceptable pressure on the police. I want to know: Do you realize what a fiasco that is? Will you take responsibility and step down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! First of all, I must say that you may find the report that the police will make happy. I don't know him yet, but after what I've heard, I think the police ordered action against yellow vests 16 or 18 seconds before Mr Jenull demanded this action. It'll probably calm you down, but it's not irrelevant, not at all. If we had a police force in this country that responds to Mr Jenul's orders or anyone else, we would live in a truly catastrophic land. I also said that back then in my public tweet that I thought the arrival of yellow vests at the Prešeren market was unnecessary, unnecessary challenge. It is true, however, that when I saw those first recordings, I also asked myself whether the police are now under the leadership of Mr Jenul, whether he is under the leadership of the one who led the operational protection of this 60th undeclared event. I think this problem has been solved. I believe that the police will be able to find out and confirm with time checks the communications that Jenull did not command her, but that it was the operational leader protecting this event. The other thing that's more problematic in my opinion is whether the police have the same vats for everyone. If one of the yellow vests was provoked there and he was handcuffed, detained, 14 or not, were they kept; were such vats also for those who provoked on the other side?Oh, my God! If they are; I have information that they are. In particular, I would like to say that I have experience myself, that you will remember those protests organised by Mr Aleš Primc more than four hundred times, and they took place before the court after Ljubljana. I attended these protests myself 30 times, somewhere. Every single protest was reported, every single one of them knew who was the organiser, who would provide security services, every protest got a permit, a police permit, but, look at the fraction, even at those protests, there were provocations. They weren't in yellow vests, as you say, but they were provokers with flags that you somehow have many times in your memory, or you say many times, so with a red star, the jugnostalgics who spit over us, and they muddy us so further. You know, the police haven't acted once. Not once. So those provocateurs aren't provocateurs, are they? Even more. I have to say, even more. I think that there was one or two cases when Mr Primc did not have a reported event, the police took action to take the megaphone away from the speaker. But you can imagine, she took his megaphone. In the sixties, when Mr Jenul organised this parade or I don't know what to call it, the protests didn't happen once. I think it is right that we start talking about whether the police have the same vats for everyone, for each other and that it is only later that we are talking about whether it is political pressures or whatever. And, finally, honourable Member, is it not most credible that all eyewitnesses who could fly to the police from one side or the other are rejected by supervision? But that's the thing that's prescribed in the law. This surveillance was ordered by the Director-General of the Police, I think that the supervision was completed in the past week, and there is still a definition of this control by the Ljubljana Police Administration. I think that the Police Director-General, Mr Olay, has already announced today that he will have a press conference on this subject on Friday, if I am not mistaken. On Friday, he will present the results of this surveillance and this surveillance will show whether the vats are all the same, whether the police did what you say they did or not. And I think that's exactly what makes us happy. We must be happy to have some control in the country to see if the police have been working professionally, legally, or if they have exceeded their powers. According to my assessment, they are not, at first glance, and only on this basis will we be able to assess whether someone is politically involved in the work of the police or not. If someone directs the police or wants control, it's all in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sukič, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u310	Minister, you're a very big manipulator. What I've been listening to right now, I'm sorry, what's his connection, what's been going on since I don't know how many years. You are the minister now, the event has happened now and your reaction is quite eloquent and worrying. And now let's take a look at your native tweet, where you wrote, quote: “The police will prepare a report on the action against yellow vests, but they came to the Prešeren market without need, according to my opinion, because they could celebrate culturally in the Market of the Republic. Don't throw the pearls among the pigs, says the Bible, and we could follow this wisdom." Ladies and gentlemen, not only do you have yellow robes for pearls, even these neo-Nazis, but these mammoths of swastika and violence you seem to admire so much that you were prepared to order internal control of your own police because they dared to remove these provocations from the Prešeren Square. These are the pressures. And don't tell me they didn't. That's why I, Minister, am asking you: When will you really begin to reflect on your own actions? When will you accept responsibility for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u312	Thank you very much. So if you call yourself that, there's nothing I can do to help. I didn't call anyone that. I have said this several times, and I have explained this to the European Commission, last but not least, when there was so much pump around it, and I have talked about values. The fact that the neo-Nazis are there, you know, I don't know that. You probably know that too, Mr. German and I don't know who yet. But I don't have any proof yet that these would be neo-Nazis. Even more, Mr German spoke publicly on television that even a young SDS is that if I am not mistaken. The neo-Nazis and the young SDS said that last time on TV, on 24U, your fellow Member said that. I just can't imagine people being able to make such remarks. Second thing, like I said, I was talking about values. We had two types of values, one of which was on the market of the Republic, where, say, we listened respectfully to the president's speech; unlike those who came from Prešeren's market, which were stuttering, measuring, muddying and so on. Or we have a value when we respectfully remembered all the falls and we celebrated a minute of silence as we should; and unlike those who came from Prešeren's market, they also flogged, mangled, measured, and so on. I don't know if you were there to make no mistake. We also have such a value that we do not break into a space that is somehow enclosed and which is designed to celebrate culturally; but those who came from Prešeren's market attacked the security authorities, attacked the police. With a lot of trouble, the police secured the scene so they wouldn't break into this place. I was talking about two types of values, not people. I didn't call anyone a pearl or a pig. I didn't call the pearls one and not the other's pigs. But I was talking again about values. What you're implying or perhaps you'd like is that the police have begun with this mandate. It did not begin with this mandate, Mrs Sukič. The police were also four years ago when we protested before the court and the police of this country, the body of this interior ministry. And I think it's right to say that the same vats should be used. It's no different, we live in the same country, it's the same democracy as it was four years ago. It is true that some people have been replaced by both the police and the ministry; and it is true that we are probably now taking a slightly different approach to all citizens with the same vats to measure things. And don't forget, you're the one who called for protests on November 5th that turned into a complete disaster and smashing on Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u314	Of course, I have a procedural proposal to hold a serious debate, because this, Minister, is what you have mixed up all living together. In the meantime, you've also admitted that you're going to a rematch, if it was once like that, some vats then, and now we're going to adjust some of our vats and so on. Please. Then you talk about values, pig values. What are pig values, Mr. Secretary? First of all, I've never heard of this terminology. Pigs, pigs are very intelligent and noble animals, if you're alluding to them, I don't even know what that means. I don't even know what pearl values are. Are these the young men who are called yellow vests and have tattoos 88 – HH, this is “Heil Hitler!” to translate to you. You can see this on a variety of videos and swastikas and so on, if you're wondering why I'm saying they're neo-Nazis. This has been proven several times, also shown in a documentary, ask around. Obviously, you don't want to ask or simply don't admit that these values are close to you, these pearly values of the neo-Nazis. And they are invited to celebrate the day of statehood, and we, the rest of us, who have pig values, or the pigs we demonstrate there, are not. So these are the vats that came with your mandate. This is what you're talking about here, and you're imagining how you said it right and you're still bluffing and manipulating. Well, that's funny. That's completely ridiculous, by deceiving. Once again, I said it was completely irrelevant whether the police would have reacted after Jenul's exclamation when the provokers carried out their activities at Prešern's monument. The police have a duty to protect public order and peace; and that is all. And that jenull has nothing to do with it. You're the one who wanted to establish this relationship. I've already proven to you that there are no essential causal links. So don't lean on empty arguments that aren't. Once again, Madam President, I propose that we make a serious commitment to the pressures exerted within the Police. It's just one of the cases. These cases are countless, and in some in-depth debate they could, of course, be discussed and analysed. What's happening is simply beyond all limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. And the next one is mag. Andrei Reich. He's going to ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! The covida-19 epidemic has greatly affected our lives and limited them in a way that the country has somehow had to jump to help, and of course it is. But at that time, the state accepted various long-term obligations. And if we look at this a little bit more far-reaching, i.e. over the next five years, of course, the state or government is preparing, on the one hand, to make the state budget easier for a billion euros in tax revenue, and on the other hand it is increasing its obligations, including, for example, EUR 2 billion in health investments, a little less than a billion euros in investment, EUR 700 million in military equipment, it raises the logical question of how we will pay for it all. Of course, you also answered my predecessor about how you plan to cover the costs of long-term care. The government will draw up a law, and somehow it does not tell us how the obligations arising from it will cover and pay. Somehow in your previous responses, you said that you were expecting some dynamic processes, that consumption would generate a new value, but we didn't hear the numbers. Of course, many serious questions are raised in this way. The European Commission has set up a specific system of money printing assistance. Money is now record-price, so 60-year-old bonds are issued, which means for two, three generations. And we are obliged to finance the current, current needs with them, which in fact raises a question in essence of correctness towards future generations. That's why I'm interested: In what way do you expect the state budget to be coordinated with expenditure in the coming years? What will be the situation if a fiscal rule is enforced within one or two years? How long do we have to cut through? What will be the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia if the price of money rises to 3%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. We are in a post-war period, a post-war period of course means that we are slowly eliminating all these measures, which were the main reason that we have a deficit today and that we have an additional debt, like all of Europe. From this point of view, of course, the situation is different; not only with us, but also everywhere else. And today there is no fiscal rule and the fiscal rule will not apply in 2022. These are actually the predictions. The second thing I would like to say is that we have a projected deficit of 8.5% of gross social product in 2021. In 2022 – 4,7 % of gross social product and then in 2023 it continues to decline, which means that in 2023, when certain fiscal restrictions are also expected in connection with the fiscal rule, we will actually reach below 3% and around 3%. From this point of view, we can say that we're going to get the entire finances back. The second thing I would like to say is that this debt, which is now under way, is carried out at public interest rates. Negative interest rate on the ten-year bond. A little bit over 0% for a 60-year bond, which means, in other words, these interest rates will hold for 10 years, will not change. Even if interest rates happen to increase in some future period, these bonds will be subject to this interest rate, which means that they do not change. As a result, we are also planning to reduce operational debt costs and have already reduced them by more than half, even two-thirds if we are looking at the last periods of the last seven years. Secondly, what I can say in the long term is that the country's expenditure in the period 2022-2024 is expected to increase by 0.2% on average and in the year 2022 it will decrease by 0.9% on an earlier basis, which means, in other words, that according to expenditure, they will be in some way stable, which is perfectly logical. After all, we have some extraordinary expenses now. It is also necessary to count on the money from the Plan for Resistance and Recovery. Here we know that 1.7 billion grants are available, some are also repayable; and that all international institutions, including the EBRD, including the European Commission, are forecasting a higher economic growth than the euro area average, meaning in other words that this growth is forecasting around five percent. Similarly, income from work is increasing, we are talking about employment, which will be beneficial. Even now, our unemployment is among the smallest, so you can be completely at peace with this point of view. Last but not least, this is shown by the ratings of the three or the four largest credit rating agencies, which mainly determine the stability of the country and, of course, that we are on track in terms of recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Reich, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. But still, you have somehow focused primarily on these existing obligations. Each year, the country must refinance a certain debt and it is unlikely that such money printing mechanisms will always be available to issue 60- or even 100-year low-interest bonds. The fact is, in the future, loans that will need to be refinanced will also come to an end, and it is unlikely that this anomaly will last, that someone will lend you money, that is, to lend you money for free or to pay you to take his money. My question was, in fact, also about what will happen to any debt that will be required; therefore, every year part of the long west is probably not to be expected or is not responsible for simulations working in the long term with such interest rate, but probably with what conservative, 2-, 3-per cent. And if we look at the situation in Canada, there the Canadian Central Bank prescribes that the creditworthiness of an individual must be checked by a simulation with a 5% interest rate. Of course, we have a feeling that the country is accepting commitments that are not sustainable and covered in the long term, so that future governments will have major problems. Therefore, I ask you to complete this part of the answer you have given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We also have a graph that we send to all the public, both professional and laymen, about how much we will pay this debt back. Let's say this year we're going to pay about 3 billion of this debt from previous years, for the second year, for 2022, it's now a forecast of about 600 million, I'm telling you. Otherwise, this is done for the next 60 years, because in 60 years we will repay this long-term bond, so that everything is planned from this perspective, including all the meals that come into payment, even after months is specified. And in this respect, there is also a time-consuming, time-consuming debt policy, so to speak, even to pay the past debt; and there is no doubt that these debts would not be paid. Secondly, what I would like to say is, at least for what relates to raising interest rates and related to inflation. Here we must stick to the euro area and the policies of the European Central Bank. And the policy of the European Central Bank is designed not to expect – at least until the first quarter – some significant inflation growth, and even in this connection not a significant increase in interest rates, which means that these interest rates will be at this level as they are now. Monetary policy will follow fiscal policy or work hand in hand. This is what the European Central Bank has provided. Today, we have greater inflationary pressures in the United States of America as a result of, of course, the great fiscal effort of the US administration. In this connection, this impact on Europe is assessed as instantaneous and not permanent by the European Central Bank. Here I can assure you that Slovenia will pay its debts as it will go down, the finances are stable, the finances are robust and resilient. And this also shows the position of banks where we have very good capitalisation, where deposits of both the population and the economy are growing. From this point of view, it has also ensured that these debts will be paid in place and, in some ways, proved by the robustness of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, mag. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u324	I propose a procedural proposal to discuss this very important topic at one of the future meetings. We have not received an answer as to how we will finance 2 billion health liabilities, 700 million in defence, more 100 million in long-term care, while the government plans to reduce the budget's revenue by one billion euros through tax burdens. These figures simply don't go together and we have a feeling, above all, that the government wants to cause problems to future governments. I have no doubt that we will not pay our debts, but debts must always be paid and paid by the poor. It is therefore important to discuss this subject at one of the future meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next is Mr Željko Cigler, who will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u326	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Our conversation today will be again about Delavsky Street in Celje, about 90 human lives, or 44 apartments. I was there on Saturday, May 15, 2021, when Emma was working with two lashes. Seismological devices in Slovenia must have detected an earthquake. The tremors were so enormous that people were running away from the house. Mr. Minister, a mother with a child, a baby, flees the house because she fears for her life. After 2000, Emo Orojarna was built on the basis of a spatial document of the Municipality of Celje where the apartment house, children’s playgrounds, gardens, trees had previously been demolished. This toolbox has always known that its activity by staying is incompatible and therefore dangerous. I hope we will not, because no action will be taken – but I believe that you are operationally capable of taking certain measures here – by chance encountering the fate of a skyscraper in Florida or a viaduct from Genoa. Mr Minister, on the basis of Article 5 of the Law on the regulation of premises, I raise the question of a Member State: Will the State exercise control over the legality of the local community's legislation, namely the GAS-5 Municipal Detailed Spatial Plan, the southern part, in order to ensure the realization of their constitutional right to a healthy environment by abolishing or supplementing the articles of Workers' Street 16 and 18 in Cel? Mr Minister, the Decree on the municipal detailed spatial plan GAS-5, the southern part, does not prescribe any measures to effectively change the destination of residential buildings. It therefore intervenes in the constitutionally guaranteed right provided for in Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to residents to a healthy living environment and is illegal in such content. Control over the decision on the assessment of the acceptability of a spatial act is necessary both in terms of the act itself and in respect of the fundamental rules on the regulation of premises. Mr Minister, the last time I asked you a question, you said why we are only now rebelling and opening this question. This issue has been open since 2000. Residents who are ignored by such a state do not exist for the local community, because it once appeared to your ministry, you were not there at the time, but to your ministry that the obvious object is empty, the residents are placed in such an ignorant position that it is something that is virtually unacceptable. They were with the President of the State, the President of the Government, at your Ministry, all the inspections, from spatial, health, to work, they were overseeing the matter. They reported these disturbances to the police, the Ombudsman. And on May 9, 2018, you discovered that the congregation had clearly presented to you the wrong information and requested a re-examination. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Your time's up. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u328	Your Honor! This topic, if I'm not mistaken, has been opened to me for the third or fourth time. Third time, third time. However, I have already told you in previous replies that in this case it is a conflict between industry and settlement, which originates decades ago, and that the municipality, which is legally the only one responsible for spatial planning of local importance, has resolved the matter by means of its spatial implementing acts. And she predicted that this part would no longer be intended for housing, because she simply could not interact with the industry in that part. At the same time, it was also imposed on industry to respect maximum noise protection measures. There have also been a number of inspection procedures that have ended with decisions and commitments made under these Decisions concerning Emo Ordjarne. It is true, however, that the Municipality of Celje has not carried out for about 10 years what it should have done in accordance with the spatial implementing act, namely to move these residents and provide them with other appropriate living conditions. And that's actually the point of the problem, and it reminds me of it as if your knee hurt and you would go to a dentist. He won't help you. You come here and ask me about these things, which is the original jurisdiction of the congregation. We have also called and warned the congregation, and more than that we are not good at. And I think and ask you at the same time whether you are asking the mayor of the City Council of the Municipality of Celje similarly in terms of the implementation of this spatial implementing act. The basic competence of regulating the premises is on the part of the congregation. We can and have done so, and I can tell you again that in order to help solve the situation more quickly, the Ministry introduced the municipality of Celje on 17 May with numerous complaints, including the inhabitants, and in fact the appeal to resolve it. The Municipality of Celje also explained that, as a mediator, it has approached to resolve the situation, that it also wants to ensure a better stay and at the same time to expand the production of activities and that it has also proposed to Emma the Purchase of this facility in terms of solving this problem. I can only promise you that the Ministry of the Environment will continue to act as a mediator between these environmental complaints made on one side of the population and the Municipality of Celje, which is responsible for solving this problem as soon as possible. Of course, in this case, we do not have a legal basis at the Ministry of Law, you are quoting the wrong articles, on the basis of which we cannot act and react in some way. There is no problem in the law or in the provisions of the spatial implementing act, but there is a problem in implementing it. The spatial implementation act is simply not implemented and is subject to the responsibility of the City Municipality of Celje.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u330	Mr. Minister, the municipal councillors are opening this question. Also the councillors of my party. These residents in the city, 90 of them, apparently still stand by your side and no one will help them. On 13 December 2018, the Ombudsman wrote: If the Ministry of Environment and Space - you were not then a minister, I know - there is no effective mechanism for forcing the local community to implement decisions of its own decision, which the Municipality of Celje does not enforce and violate the rights of its citizens, based on the same legal basis, we also propose that this area be properly regulated. I would like to tell you that the same question of the Ministry's request was made by your client's falcon Dr. Gorenak, the same question raised by your colleague, current Minister, Dr. Ange Logar. Dr. Logar even wrote to the tenants – I read your letter and attachment, you are in a vicious circle, like most of those who are forced to enter the wheels of an inactive system of a liberalized country, so that individual centres of power will not allow themselves to think. The original problem is the municipal administration – as you say – but the current mayor obviously does not intend to solve it. There are violations of the rights of these citizens. And you actually sent a letter from the Ministry to the municipality, I told you, on 9 May 2018, a request, a inquiry into the new 20 evidence that you should have led to a different decision, either yourself or in relation to the evidence already made, that you did not make a CPVO at the Ministry. Mr. Minister, this byte can be subdued. Go over there. I'll escort you. I'll go with you. Look what's going on. Wearing translations of the house are repenting. Hello! We're not in the wild west, we're a democratic state. And at the oath of the Minister, you said that you would take care of the welfare of the people. Take care of the legality of their stay. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u332	Once again, honourable Member, I would have acted if I had the legal basis for doing so. You yourself have read, for the first time, that the problem in the City Municipality of Celje and in the implementation of the decree is correct. Decisions, spatial implementation acts are not implemented in many ways, not because someone has violated the regulation, but because they are simply by investors, there is no ambition on the part of the initiators. A number of spatial implementing acts provide for the construction or non-reploitment of something and it does not occur in nature because there are no investors' foundations. In short, the Ministry has no leverage here to force the municipality to implement a spatial implementing act. What do you mean you don't understand?Oh, my God! I can answer your question five more times, and I'll tell you the same thing. What you are saying is the original jurisdiction of the congregation, regulating the area in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government is the original jurisdiction. This must be done legally, under the supervision of the congregation. In this case, the Ministry of Environment and Space has not found illegality. Not you or I are not an expert on statistics and for the assessment of the security of stay in certain If such an assessment of the relevant profession occurs, then intervention should be taken on the basis of other regulations; not the Law on the regulation of premises. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Procedurally, Mr. Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u334	Thank you. Of course, Madam President, I propose that the matter be dealt with at the National Assembly, because we cannot allow such things to happen. The house is getting worse when I was looking at these things, you'd be holding your head. And all the authorities in this country - competent, well paid, responsible for this thing - stand by; so do we. Many Members have been informed of this, have an opinion, and are now looking at what will happen. However, the fact is that the CPVO should have been created, and the Municipality of Celje was misleading with information that the Ministry of Environment and Space was doing when this matter was being considered – a change in the background plan of the municipal spatial document in 2020. And this is a matter you need to look into. When the householders asked you to talk to them, you wrote down that you would expect a report from the City Hall of Celje on the condition that you would then take action. Mr. Minister, does something really have to happen, does someone have to die or be seriously injured in order for this country to react?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mr Boštjan Koražija is next. He will ask the Minister of Health Mr Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u336	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Recently, Mr. Minister was also visiting Lower Podravje, as far as I know, and also on Ptuj. Finally, the completion of or this financial scheme is expected to be finally closed with regard to the completion of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. This saga on the construction or completion of the Ptuj Emergency Centre lasts and lasts and lasts or continues, from year to year, we come to some new conclusions. What was most disturbing was that Slovenia obtained from European funds for the construction of several emergency centres across Slovenia about ten years ago, but the emergency centre between these centres, which were then also clearly defined, or who will receive all these funds, has always fallen out of this scheme, according to home. For a while there was even a possibility of a replacement emergency centre in the event that one of the emergency centers or hospital would fail to build itself. I must admit that the last month on Ptuj has been very turbulent with regard to this construction or completion of this emergency centre, as you also know these stories about various things that have happened in the control world. And what is particularly worrying, since we have already taken the initiative in Levica 2019 to complete or end this emergency centre Ptuj, I am afraid that this saga will unfortunately continue in one way or another. And that's why I'm asking you: Where and what assurance has it made that this road of construction will really be realized or that the state will give this promised money? Because we have heard many times in the Lower Podravje, or even in Ptuj, from various governments, from various ministers, and it has always been complicated or stopped in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u338	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Member and honourable Member! Dear Mr Boštjan Koražija, thank you for this question. I am pleased that in 2014 and 2015 we built emergency centres. And when we started the first design of the Emergency Centre of General Hospital Ptuj in 2015, I can say that the financial structure for the construction of the Emergency Centre of General Hospital Ptuj is closed with the conclusions of the Government of the 84th regular meeting of 30. This year's 6th. And that gives us the basis to start procedures for realisation itself. Following a confirmed amendment, investment documentation number 3 is the final estimated value of 6 million and a half with VAT. The Ministry of Health or Budget will finance 4 million €400,000, while other resources are the General Hospital Ptuj – a million and a half, and the local community 300 000 and donations from the economy 320 000. The above conditions are met, so that we will, as a rule, start by the end of the summer with a public contract to select the contractor and complete the project by March 2023. That's it. But once again, because it's not directly related to this, but all the projects that are at risk if we don't successfully manage the epidemic. The key is to get in trouble. Only in this way will there be no fear that we will not carry out all the projects as peacefully as possible, than those that have been on our plate before the epidemic, than those that have been unleashed by the epidemic. I estimate that we are making successful progress on the Ptuj Emergency Centre project and that we will be able to report on further steps in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u340	Thanks again for saying that. Now I'm going to explain to you why I'm still asking you all this. Since the budget 2021 and the amending budget 2021, in the development programme plan, do not have the item of the Emergency Centre Ptuj at all. Mrs Ptuj, Director of General Hospital, also pointed out this when they were still in the negotiating or negotiating phase, as far as I could understand. But the other thing is, which was always kind of hanging in the air here on Ptuj, that no one can really explain exactly why it took so long to get to this emergency centre completely. Again informal information, it is said that the intention of not completing the emergency centre is to hide essentially in the privatisation of the Ptuj hospital. Which is true, what is not true, should be checked or also determined by the person who would have checked it out in my opinion. Because if this were one of the reasons, it would be very worrying that the privatisation of the Ptuj hospital would actually be happening, even for this our Lower Podravje, which really needs this emergency centre and also covers a large area. And now I want to know: Why did the country sell land at the hospital and suddenly it appeared necessary to finance construction? As I said earlier, the buyer was supposed to be famous. Are you familiar with this or are you aware that the buyer should already be known about these lands? From my point of view on the covid epidemic itself, I think it would be foolish to sell these state, public land to some private companies or private individuals at that time, because we may need the whole land back. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Thank you for these additional questions. First of all, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health and Government, there is no question whether this emergency centre in Ptuj is needed or not, since it covers General Hospital Ptuj with an emergency centre of 110 000 inhabitants. On this side, the matter is perfectly clear and I am pleased that after the first project in 2015 I can say in a relatively short time that we have completed things and that they are going into realisation or implementation. As regards the Development Programme Plan for the period 2021-2024, the value of the project 2711-16-0002, the Ptuj Emergency Centre increased. I am also pleased that this project has led to an implementation phase, because if these fears were, as you said, I do not know them to privatise anything on Ptuj, but I am pleased to show that, of course, this is not the case, because I believe in the network of public hospitals and emergency centres as the basis for the operation of emergency services. As far as land sales procedures are concerned, the fact that procedures are not even published is not, so I don't know how anyone could have predicted or knew who would be buying these land, of course. As you have asked, I have neither the answer nor the knowledge of this; but as Director of Public Health Services, I can say that I know how these procedures are going. Of course, all these procedures, which must be transparent and follow the relevant legislation, are carried out on purpose. So much for me, but I am looking forward to the next steps – I believe in this – we will also get directly at Ptuj Hospital and we will all be able to look at the progress of the project together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Koražija's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u344	Thanks again for saying that. As has already been said, the problem now at the end of these lands is that we do not know who is buying them or why the country is actually selling them to close this matter. I would suggest, however, that public debate be held on this subject under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is precisely because, in recent years, we have also heeded these promises regarding the construction of this emergency centre here in the National Assembly. And personally, in Levica, we have constantly fought to complete the construction of this emergency centre, and also in view of what is happening with regard to the covid epidemic or covid epidemics, I think we really need this scheme to be completed. However, I would also like to suggest that it would be right, given that we had already fallen out of this plan and these European funds at the time, that this scheme might not last three years, but rather that it would be cashed in in one amount, so that this project could be completed as soon as possible, so that no additional funds would be expected. I hope not. As it is said, I ask that this issue be discussed in the National Assembly. I hope and wish that in the future there would be as much public health in Slovenia as possible, because it is essential to solve and also this covid epidemic has saved or saved public health; not private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now we have one last question. It will be appointed by Mrs Violeta Tomić, Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u346	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, on 11 June, on the basis of the Public Information Access Act, I asked your Ministry for detailed information regarding the granting of the status of society in the public interest in culture to the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values, registered at the City Market 10 in Ljubljana. It is publicly known that members of this society are so-called yellow jackets, which are considered Slovenian neo-Nazis, members of the Slovenian Generation of Identity, which publicly expresses the struggle for racial purity, xenophobia, homophobia, misogynism, which worship the neo-Nazi Anders Breivik, a Norwegian mass murderer, and are, of course, quoted as spreading racism, hate speech and attack feminism, Islam and cultural Marxism. In public space, they are known as a Nazi-affiliated divorce, or part of the Slovenian wing of the world neo-Nazi organization Blut-und-Boden. The leader of the yellow jackets and the president of the company with the status of the public interest cultural society just acquired is Urban Purgar, the company is also the publisher of the self-declared fascist National Press Agency, whose representative Aleš Ernel has declared himself editor of the new Slovenian fascist media and has even posed in the State Council with the image of the domestic General Leon Rupnik. Among the members of this group we also find former SDS candidates in local elections, such as Nace Prosen; and you like to deny connection with this group. The police have dealt with both the president and members of society on several occasions, last at an alternative celebration on 25 June, where they have just broken in and come to work in the hope of a conflict between peaceful participants at a peaceful and dignified event. The organisation with such objectives and a planned hate strategy cannot be in the public interest, under no circumstances since it is directed against the rule of law, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and against the basic principles of democratic society; in most European countries they are persecuted and banned and you honor them. I'm asking you: On the basis of what criteria and specific conditions has this company acquired the status of a society in the public interest in culture? What is their function by definition, and what does the public interest in culture represent for you? Are the violent and primitive incidents of the so-called yellow vests, or are blackcoats, often seen in the public, an example of cultural activity, culture and omikama as common human and civilisational values? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u348	Thank you very much. It was said a whole series of things, as if it were a society of some neo-Nazis who are members of a world neo-Nazi organization and similar things. I don't know, but if they have accidentally violated any legislation or if it is illegal, please contact the relevant authorities and, of course, initiate appropriate procedures. As I know, no sanctions have been imposed on society and no fine has been imposed for a worse tax offence or offence of which nature is particularly severe. Nor has the Society been legally convicted of a criminal offence and no legal proceedings or termination proceedings have been initiated. That would be my answer. Otherwise, the procedure for attesting this company to society and organisation in the public interest was carried out lege artis, i.e. by all rules, with all documents. 8. 6. 2021 was given a decision and served the company and thus recognised the status we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u350	Minister, you can't defend yourself – I don't know, I'm ignorant, I don't care. First book, take a good look at this, is Europe of the Nations, published 2018. What does it say below? A generation of identity. But you must be looked at so much, Mr. Minister, that you must know that this is an internationally banned organization associated with Nazism. But you must know so much if you are a minister in a government and if you have the power to grant status and power to such. I didn't get these documents from you, but I got them. The publisher of these books is – New horizons, d.o.o. owned by members of SDS and Hungarians. As you can see, they also gave them a recommendation. I also have a contract before me between the New Horizon and the Generation of Identity or whatever you call them, yellow jackets. And I'm wondering if you even know how many members this Society has to promote the traditional units that you've granted them this status. He's got four. This is called the Kitchen Table NGOs and they say it in their own. The first book of the Europe of Nations was published when they were not yet a society. It is said that they refer to two Zoom sessions and the Manifesto for a homeland that fights against everything else. I want to know: How long can we put up with impatience? Have you even read the book? How is it possible that you have given a positive opinion on this book? They are also engaged in some historical lectures. How do you, as a professor, look at this as a historian? Do you even know what they teach? Please explain all this to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u352	This society has not, as I said, been persecuted by official authorities, it is not in violation of democratic rules. However, I am not aware of the content of this society. I won't read their books either, like if you wrote them, I wouldn't read yours either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u353	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u354	Of course, I have a procedural proposal to discuss these answers to the Minister. I know you wouldn't give me the status of society in the public interest. I had company, but I have to say that I respected this status so much that I wouldn't dare ask. Here is the publishing contract between: Jože Biščak, the New Horizons, for these books, is said to be known who is betraying them. And both books were published by the New Horizons, which is in the mercy of the SDS party. This says much, Minister Simoniti, that the government's publishing of identity books, which I stress in most European countries are banned because of their danger, are persecuted because they simply promote hatred and so on. I do not know if you are aware, but in this application for status society has also revealed that it has promoted these traditional values, but based on threats to young women who have abandoned their basic task and will be punished and similarly threatened. This company has many meetings, rallies, lectures on its specific content at the location Depal you 20. It's a very strange, semi-broken house, and you're criticizing Metelkova. I want to know: Who's gathering there? What are these events? Who and what kind of manpower are there? Minister Simoniti, of course, they were not punished in any proceedings, because we know who runs the police and who runs the justice system. Even now that the police have removed them nicely because they have threatened peaceful protests, and they are always coming to provoke them, of course Minister Hojs has put himself on the side of these niggers and is investigating the police. How can the police even hope to investigate your guards?Oh, my God! And I'm also interested in: When can I expect the required documentation, assessments, criteria, evaluation forms of the expert commission because I haven't received anything yet? How is it possible that this is happening in Slovenia, that we worship neo-Nazis and that our government openly supports them? That is why, of course, I still expect that we will speak openly and condemn these things in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-05-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. With this, I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. We've exhausted the list. I conclude the first item of the agenda and interrupt the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening, everyone! (The sitting was suspended by 5.) JULY 2021 AT 20. URI.)
