ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša, Mag. Dejan Židan by 3 p.m., Branko Simonovic by 12 p.m., Jožef Horvat, Alexander Reberšek, Primož Siter by 7 p.m., mag. Bojana Muršič by 3 p.m., Aljaž Kovacič by 3 p.m., Jože Lenart by 1 p.m., Nada Brinovšek by 12 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko by 12 p.m. and mag. Carmen Furman by 12:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Mariana Dicaucic. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalants, Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! This support is very helpful to the Minister, who is reflected in the meeting. The story of each minister begins with his hearing in the National Assembly. At the so-called hearing, the Minister's candidate would then present himself as professionally, i.e. with a vision of his work at the Ministry, as well as of his personality, which characterises him and in what personal situations are important for deciding on the suitability of the Minister's candidate, is currently present. Today, I hope to say that if Minister Dikaucič were to be honest with us at the time of his presentation, Members, he would never have become Minister of Justice. In a very short term, so many skeletons fell out of Minister Dikaucic's closet that in mature parliamentary democracy there should not even be an interpretation – the minister would have resigned himself. In order to fully understand such a position, we must first define the basis; of course, I am talking about the political responsibility that I should, and obviously not be able to, have every political official, including the representative of the executive branch, namely the Minister of Government. Political responsibility is, however, a unique form of responsibility that is exercised jointly or independently of the legal and moral or ethical responsibility of an individual. In the case of the executive branch of the Authority, each Minister shall be responsible both subjectively and objectively. And exactly the latter, objective political responsibility is urgently needed in the modern democratic world. Moreover, in the context of parliamentary democracy, where a system of barriers and balances between the three branches of government governs, such political responsibility is very meaningful and very justified. Since policies are specific, irregular or harmful, they are not formally defined, as is the case in law. The definition of such unacceptable behaviour in political life depends on a number of factors, such as morals, the level of political culture and the public opinion expressed by the public on certain characteristics or situations. Let us therefore begin by assessing the existence of the political responsibility of Minister Dikaucic in terms of these assumptions. According to the motioners, it is certainly not moral that Minister Dikaucič, at the time in the role of candidate for Minister, Public and Members of the National Assembly, silenced the fact that he was charged with the offence of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents and with the unfulfilled financial obligation to pay a municipal contribution. The concealment of such important personal circumstances, which I am sure would have an impact on the decision on its suitability, is a valuable act and not only points to the level of political culture that Minister Dikaucič represents directly, but also shows his attitude towards the National Assembly. You know, citizens are aware that everyone who is competing, for example, for a job in public administration, has to provide a certificate that he is not in the pre-trial or criminal proceedings. Not the Minister. It is probably not too much to point out that in mature democracies it is so difficult, including potentially criminal, that the burden of an individual competing for a ministerial chair is some kind of procedural hindrance. There is no vote in mature democracies on the suitability of such a ministerial candidate. The personal characteristics of Minister Dikaucic, who, as has already been said, has been deliberately disguised as a minister's candidate, unfortunately reflect nothing but his immoral attitude, which is presented in the degree of his political culture. In countries with a high level of political culture, even the Minister's immorality can be the only reason to exercise his political responsibility. If we critically recall the recent past, the mandate of the previous Sharča government, then it was the moral responsibility of the one who demanded the political responsibility of the retired ministers. I'm afraid that's not the case with Minister Dikaucic. Moreover, in spite of his moral responsibility or, rather, moral irresponsibility, we also acknowledge political responsibility for his inadmissible and unlawful conduct and for the abandonment of his ministerial duties. Sage is known not only to the Slovenian public but also to the whole of Europe. We are the only country that has joined the European Prosecutor's Office's project, which still does not have the names of two European Delegated Prosecutors. And according to the motioner, Mr Dikaucič, Minister of Justice, is responsible for this. If I could just refresh my memory for a moment. Due to government disagreement with the selected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, who, by the way, both meet the most stringent professional criteria and were therefore chosen by the State Prosecutor's Council as the most suitable candidate, the national candidature has been delayed until today due to government willful disagreement with this choice. The illegal decision of the Government, by which it intended to repeal the first candidature procedure, which was conducted in a legal and transparent manner, even led to the resignation of the then Minister of Justice, Mrs Liljana Kozlovic. At the time of Mr Dikaucic's new appearance, we all in the opposition doubted that there would be a rapid and legitimate dissension in this story with European Delegated Prosecutors. And our doubts have, unfortunately, been confirmed. Minister Dikaucič continued in the spirit of the government and its President, and the legitimate call for two seats for a European Delegated Prosecutor from 2020 wanted to avoid the publication of a new, illegal call. This was published by the minister in July, although only a few more than a month earlier at the hearing in the National Assembly, he claimed that he would not intervene in proceedings that had not yet been legally completed. Thus, the Minister broke his own words and with his active conduct – when he published an illegal call and thus tried to overturn a previous call, which, as has already been said, was legal and transparent and already in the final stage – he acted against the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Minister Dikaucič violated the fundamental principle of rule of law by his activity and allowed the Government to usurp interpretation of laws or the rule of law. On the one hand, therefore, the active conduct of Minister Dikaucič, who unlawfully intervened in the legitimate selection procedure, and on the other hand the suspension of the duty of Minister Dikaucič to ensure that, as an equal and responsible member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, without undue delay and delay, does all the activities that our State of Slovenia, as Minister of Justice, is obliged to do in order to avoid the action of the Commission for failing to comply with European Union law, is more specifically the European Union regulation which obliges Slovenia to appoint two European Delegated Prosecutors. We've been late for the appointment for almost six months. However, the government and Minister Dikaucič with her bowed only under the pressure of this interpolation, but unfortunately this time it did not go without arbitrary arbitration. I am speaking, of course, of the so - called temporary introduction or temporary appointment. It is also one of the fundamental duties of the Minister of Justice to monitor the rule of law of the Government as a college body and to monitor the legality of decisions and other acts, including public calls received by either the Government or any of the other ministries. With regard to this responsibility, the Minister himself writes in his reply to the interpretation that the Ministry of Justice plays a consultative role in addressing the issue of legality in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, Minister Dikaucič neglected his duty, and his abandonment of this kind of duty was expressed in a direct violation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the publication of an illegal public call. The defence or defence of Minister Dikaucič is extremely sceptical and impersonal in response to the interpolation. We were not overly surprised by the proposals, however, as the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Regulation of the European Union on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office are substantively clear. The professional choice is made by the State Prosecutor's Council. The government only takes note of the proposal and forwards it to the chief European prosecutor. In accordance with the Regulation, this does not make any choice but merely to verify the competence and appropriateness of the candidates selected. Both the European Union regulations and the State Prosecutor's Act do not give rise to any legal right or obligation to order the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to request the submission of a list of three or even six candidates in the national candidature procedure for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors from the State Prosecutor's Council. On the contrary, since the European chief prosecutor does not have any powers under the regulation to choose between the candidates proposed by the Government, he has solely and solely the power to verify their professional competence, Minister Dikaucič has deceived several candidates in defending the list, and his insistence on such a will to interpret the legal basis does not only mean that the legislative branch is subordinated to the authority, but also to the political subordination of the prosecution. The latter constitutes the biggest infringement of Slovenian and European law, even if we recall Article 17 of the Regulation, which provides the European Delegated Prosecutor's Office with an unequivocally independent position. The same assurance was also defined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when, in an explanation for the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, which was adopted precisely for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I quote: “In order to ensure independence and impartiality in the process of proposing candidates, the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council for the Government will be taken into account when proposing candidates for appointment as European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors”. “decisive and binding”. End of story. The matter is therefore clear and the evidence is based on facts and legal facts. When it comes to non-compliance with the Law on State Prosecutors, non-compliance with the Regulation of the European Union concerning the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and when it comes to the issue of the publication of an illegal public appeal for nominations for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors, Minister Dikaucič acted unlawfully for his active conduct and for his duty to leave, and did not perform his ministerial functions conscientiously and in accordance with Slovenian legislation. Finally, the Minister of Justice even supported the decision of the Government, whereby the Government arbitrarily decided not to implement the ruling of the Administrative Court. There is no justification for such conduct by the Minister, which appears to be contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Also, the last improvisation of the Government with a temporary introduction, which is also strongly advocated by Minister Dikaucič, is a new kind of legal hooliganism. We also acknowledge the political responsibility of the proposers to the minister when it comes to the appointment and advancement of the state prosecutors of the Republic of Slovenia. Here too, the Minister's suspension of the duty of conduct is reflected in the fact that either intentionally or negligently he does not provide for the filling of the State Prosecutor's offices, which are legally established for the normal and effective functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office. It is not irrelevant that by the end of 2020, the decree on the number of cities of the state prosecutors provided for 268 cities, with 205 cities occupied today. More importantly, during his term of office, Minister Dikaucič did nothing to ensure that the procedures for the appointment of new prosecutors or the procedures for the promotion of the already appointed prosecutors would proceed without delay and without political interference. It is known that the appointment and promotion of state prosecutors under this government and under the Ministry of Minister Dikaucič is carried out in a selective manner, i.e. in a manner, those who are politically correct for the ruling suit are appointed or promoted, and those who are not politically correct for the ruling suit are still awaiting appointment and promotion today. The oldest procedure that has not yet been decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the appointment to the post of District Attorney, who stands, says and writes since 4 September last year. Or the information that there are still 19 new state prosecutors waiting for the appointment. It is grotesque that Minister Dikaucič is so inactive in these proceedings that the State Prosecutor's Council does not get information from the Ministry of Justice as of the month of June, which is half a year. The fact that the appointment of a specific prosecutor has been delayed for more than a year is an unacceptable and direct pressure from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus also from the Justice Minister of Dikaucic, on the independent and independent function of the State Prosecutor's Office. Minister Dikaucuč directly violates the basic standard of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, Article 3, which gives the State Prosecutor's Office an independent and independent position, and also undermines the specific constitutional position that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives to the Prosecutor's Office. The following fact is very convenient. During the time of Minister Dikaucič, the Attorney-General at one of the parliamentary meetings of the Justice Committee, at which the Minister was not present, argued with concern that the State Prosecutor's Office would no longer be able to handle the cases and ensure the participation of the defendants before the courts, while also collecting new outstanding cases. Until today, Minister Dikauchič has done nothing. Its suspension of the duty to provide the State Prosecutor with conditions of work so that the State Prosecutor can act effectively and independently, in particular independently of political pressure, is therefore certainly the reason for the exercise of his political responsibility and represents a reflection of the Minister's inability to act as a justice minister. By the way, honourable Mr Dikaucič, the parliamentary Committee on Justice has met nine times during your term of office. At the Committee meetings, we took important decisions, including the amendment of the Land Book Act and the amendment of the Penal Code and even amending the budget for 2022 and 2023. You weren't at any of these meetings. Is this for you conscientiously performing your duties, your esteemed minister? Let me just mention when an official or a public servant leaves his or her supervision or otherwise manifestly acts anonymously in the service or when he or she knowingly violates the laws and other regulations, although he or she should assume that there may be a serious violation of the rights of another or damage to public goods, which the independence and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office is undoubtedly, but then it may also be a criminal offence of the bride's work in the service defined by the Penal Code in Article 258. So, Mr Minister, we are convinced that in this part you are at least politically responsible, if not otherwise. If I touch the Minister's collective responsibility again. In both theory and practice, each minister is collectively responsible for the work of the government as a whole, since the government is a collective body. It is a collective responsibility, among other things, that the Minister may also be politically responsible for the interpretation. Minister Dikaucič is, as justice minister, the indisputably first defender of the rule of law, at least he should be, even at a time or in particular, when, under the power of a member of the government, he decides to adopt non-constitutional decisions affecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. Or when delaying the drafting of a law to prevent unconstitutional interference with human rights. In these cases, the Minister of Justice should and could be that member of the government who would prevent such illegality and constitutionally contentious actions by the government, or otherwise, his voice should at least be heard if not heard. Minister Dikauccich, nothing. He obviously also forgets his role and responsibility as a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not, and it must not be unusual, that we have the Members we have elected to this function, and the people in whose service it is, high expectations from the Minister of Justice. Moreover, a high level of respect for the rule of law, knowledge and respect for the hierarchy of legal acts such as laws and government regulations and the legality of conduct, these are the virtues that should be self-evident for the justice minister. Unfortunately, Minister Dikaucic does not grace any of these values. On the contrary. It is praised for its unworthy play of the judicial system and for avoiding judicial authorities by not taking over judicial shipments, it is adorned by the avoidance of payment of municipal contributions and, unfortunately, by our rule of law, by the suspicion of the crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. Mr. Minister, how many ordinary citizens who would be graced by such unworthy qualities walk through our country without having to bear responsibility and consequences for their actions? And why do you think you could be the privileged one who will not be held accountable for his actions? At the 4th point, Minister Dikaucič's response to the interpellation was at the very least non-consequential, where the applicants are informed of the reversal of the operation of the only notariat in the Lower Savinja Valley. Probably because the good part of the minister's response is to describe the actual and not legal situation, but in spite of everything. The fact is that the Minister's actions, both service and abandonment, have led to the closure of the deplorable notary office or its discontinuated operation. This was a direct violation of the Notariat Act, specifically Article 11 of the Act. This Article directs the Minister to ensure an adequate or sufficient number of notary cities by arriving at least one notary post at the district court. However, in areas with higher population concentration and more intensive economic activity, the Minister must determine the number of notary cities according to the volume of notary operations by at least one notary per 20,000 inhabitants. Minister Dikaucič failed to fulfil this duty, or otherwise, with the suspension of his duties, the Minister caused the closure of the regular notary office in Žalec, although due to the above-mentioned statutory provisions, the notary office for more than 42 000 citizens and citizens has been in operation for almost three decades. It is probably not worth mentioning that Minister Dikaucič was unsuccessfully competing for a notary town in Žalec before the office closed. Although his dismissed complaint did not affect the course of events, as the Minister of Elections was quickly rejected as an inadequate candidate, it is probably not a coincidence that Minister Dikaucič later, when he became Minister, allowed such a large area to be without a notary office. Although he authorised someone else to decide on the extension of the mandate of the notary then, the fact of the Minister does not detract from his collective responsibility. Even more, Article 10 of the Notariat Act makes it clear that the appointment is the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Minister Dikaucič therefore, by the suspension of his duties, caused the notary office in Žalec to close, despite the fact that the legal conditions for its operation were met and that, under Article 11 of the Notariat Act, the Minister's legal duty was to ensure the continuity of the Notary Office in Žalec. Here the moral responsibility of Minister Dikaucič is once again intertwined with the law, and both are certainly politically justified. However, one act alone is sufficient, one act alone or one act alone, a serious enough personality that a minister should no longer be a minister. Mr Dikaucič is embellishing even more of these characteristics, behaviours and violations, so we are convinced that he is not suitable to continue to serve as a justice minister. Interpellation is based on real indications which have both a legal and a political nature. Infringements are such that they cannot be excused by a simple apology or subsequent payment of a municipal contribution. The Minister's lack of respect for Slovenian and European legislation does not excuse Friday's introduction to the selected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, whom the government and Minister Dikaucič understand as a temporary introduction – God knows how a person can get to know something only temporarily. All these past violations therefore remain. As is the case with criminal services, tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents remain suspected. In the course of his duties, the Minister left due diligence and due diligence, and, last but not least, the Minister performed his duties anonymously. All of this should be sufficient reason for today's untrustworthy vote on Minister Dikaucic. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, however, it is our country of law, and today we should not allow it to kneel before one individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the Minister of Justice's reply to the interpretation on 8 October 2021. I give the floor to Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word, but above all for the opportunity to respond in an reasoned manner to the impressions the opposition has imposed on the Interpolation. Given the contents of the readings, it seems to me that the interpellation's proponents want to create the impression that my ministry is unacceptable. Proposers have no arguments and no evidence, they state inaccuracies, and, of course, I fully reject interpolation. I believe that today's interpolation is not a criticism of my work, although it wants to show itself that way, but I am intertwined only and solely because I am the minister of this government. I am in favour of the rule of law, and it seems particularly important to me that the rule of law is working in these times of crisis. I am aware that today I will receive accusations and floods, probably even low-level ones, which I will, of course, listen to, because this is my duty. At this point, I can say that I know that I am doing the right thing and that I am supported by the government and my exceptional colleagues at the Ministry. I have taken over the work of the Minister of Justice on 15 June this year and the fact that I have not received a hundred days of peace, I can understand that we are operating in situations that are all earlier than easy or, if you would like, normal. However, I find it more difficult to understand that in interpreting, on the one hand, it is obvious that I am acting against the rule of law, and on the other hand, I am just following the letter of the law and allowing the judiciary to judge illegality. So, of course, I'm wondering, what are you really proposing to me for interpretation - not to follow the rule of law or to do it too strictly? But let's do it in a row. Since the issue is important, allow me to explain in the introduction some of the basic rules of the interpolation institute. Interpellation is an institution that identifies the political responsibility of the minister. The Constitution in its 118th Article governs the number of Members who may initiate an interpretation of the work of the Government or of the individual minister and the majority necessary for its resolution. It is clear that the Minister's interpretations must refer to a legal framework of competences covered by a specific minister or ministry. Simplification, therefore, the Minister can only respond to the evidence from the authority of his department, because a different interpretation would be inadmissible, meaning that the Minister could be relieved of acts or omissions for which he is not even under the law and cannot be held responsible for them. Following the obvious interpretations, I explain their unfoundedness, either because they do not concern the powers of the Minister of Justice or because they are misleading. Interpellators first give me the responsibility to announce another public call for nominations for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors. You have declared this invitation to tender illegal, but I have a considerable reservation to such arguments, since, as I have repeatedly pointed out, only a court can decide on illegality. Let me remind you here how the national nomination procedure for the two European Delegated Prosecutors has been carried out. The first public call for nominations for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors was published on 9 October 2020. On 27 May, the Government adopted a decision establishing that this public call by law was considered unsuccessful. On 1 July this year, the Administrative Court issued a decision rejecting the action of the two candidates with a request for a provisional order. The Ministry of Justice issued a new call for applications on 9 July. The Ministry of Justice has waited until the decision of the competent court on that action was brought on 4 August. The Court, as I have already said, is the only one competent to decide on the legality of the government decision and the public call. Let me repeat, therefore, it is not the minister's responsibility to judge the legality of government decisions, nor is the claim made by the legal profession, as stated in the interpretation, by those who bind the minister, nor by the public opinion, but they are the only legal acts in force in this country. And they're valid until the court decides otherwise. By judgment of 4 October this year, the Administrative Court decided that the decision of the Government of 27 should be taken. 5. Remove and refer the matter back to the defendant, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, for a retrial. In doing so, I should like to point out that the Court has not ruled on the substantive reasons for the action, nor has the Court in any way ruled on the legality of the new public appeal. In the light of the decision of the Administrative Court to remove the decision of the Government and return the matter to the Government in a reopened procedure, I have decided to issue a decision on the rejection of applications submitted on the basis of a new public call. At this point, I can assure you that at the Ministry of Justice, we will continue to act legally as we have done so far. The interpretation also states that prior to the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, control over the use of European funds should be avoided and that the level of protection of the EU's interests in Slovenia should be reduced. I would like to point out that the prosecution of crimes relating to the illegal use of European public funds has already been possible, irrespective of the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. The Penal Code provides in Article 229 for the offence of fraud to the detriment of the European Union and in Article 257a, paragraph 4, for the offence of damage to public funds of the European Union. Such offences may also be prosecuted by the already appointed European Prosecutor from Slovenia in accordance with Article 28, paragraph 4, of the Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. However, they may also be prosecuted by state prosecutors from the specialised State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, of course if the prosecution does not take over the European Public Prosecutor's Office or if the prosecution waives the prosecution of these Slovenian prosecutors. The European Commissioner for Justice also explained in a letter to the former Minister of Justice earlier this April that the failure to appoint European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia would not preclude the effective functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Why? Since it is envisaged that the powers of responsibility and responsibilities of the European Delegated Prosecutors will be exercised by the European Supervisory Prosecutor, which Slovenia has. In order for the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Slovenia to be carried out effectively, I also issued amendments to the State Prosecutor's Order on 23 July this year. In this way, we have adapted the minutes of the State Prosecutor's Office to ensure that they are suitable for record-keeping and registration of cases of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In particular, the Government and the National Assembly, at the request of the Ministry of Justice in this mandate, adopted the last legal basis necessary for the creation of the work of the European Public Prosecutor in Slovenia, with the support of the European Prosecutor's staff. In order, despite all the legal complications that have arisen so far, the Republic of Slovenia has finally submitted the proposal of two European Delegated Prosecutors to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which could thus begin to function in full composition, and the Government adopted a decision on 18 November this year proposing to appoint a candidate who applied for a public invitation of 9. Ten. 2020 and selected by the State Prosecutor's Council for a period of time until the national part of the nomination process has been successfully completed. Therefore, the perceptions of the interpretation, to quote, are "in the interest of the Ministry to delay as long as possible" and that the Government is delaying the procedure in order to involve Slovenia and its representatives in the European Public Prosecutor's Office's project as soon as possible or not at all, are all the more incomprehensible. The Ministry of Justice and I, as Minister, are doing everything within our powers to ensure that Slovenia has, as soon as possible, a European Delegated Prosecutor in addition to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and I regret that you present distorted facts to the interpreters. In the next paragraph of the interpolation, the proponents take responsibility for the speed of the appointment of the state prosecutor, and at the same time you state that the problem is not in the execution of calls for the free seat of the state prosecutor. However, in the appointment of state prosecutors, the exercise of the call is the only jurisdiction we have under the State Prosecutor's Act. In view of the content of the statement, I believe it is very important to clarify the progress of the procedure and the competence of the Ministry in this place. The Free City of the State Prosecutor shall be invited by the Ministry on a proposal from the Head of State Prosecutor with the prior agreement of the Attorney General. The Ministry shall, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, then forward the applications for vacant posts to the Heads of State Prosecutors and shall, pursuant to Article 31 of this Act, draw up a reasoned opinion on the suitability of the candidate to be served by the applicant and may be designated. Upon receipt of the candidate's definition or after the expiry of the deadline for defining the Head of State Prosecutor's Office, he shall draw up a final opinion and send it to the Council of State Prosecutors, which shall draw up an opinion on the candidates and deliver it to them. Candidates may submit comments to the opinion and then the State Prosecutor's Council shall draw up a final opinion which shall be forwarded to the Minister. On the basis of this final opinion, the Minister shall draw up a proposal for appointment and send it to the Government. Currently, two calls have been opened at the Ministry of Justice for the free seats of state prosecutors, and the deadline for filing applications expires today at midnight. During my term of office, three proposals for the appointment of a state prosecutor were drawn up and sent to the Government as soon as possible in accordance with the procedure described. With regard to the stage of proceedings under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, it is not possible for me to justify the delaying of proceedings or the failure to comply with the rules. It is also not possible for me to justify any distinction between candidates or the preference of a certain candidate for a state prosecutor. The Ministry of Justice, under my leadership, is leading its tasks in the process of appointing state prosecutors, legally and currently without delay, and without delay, of any kind. The next observation from the interpolation is that I am involved in the adoption of legal proposals with which the government interferes with human rights and fundamental freedoms. In fact, it is clear to me that I am part of a government that is taking measures in the global health crisis to protect life and health. In such health conditions, which are unfortunately deteriorating every day, by nature human rights and freedoms cannot be fully cohabitated, so sometimes in order to protect one of the highest possible fundamental human rights, that is, life and health, is cut down on others, including fundamental human rights. It is, of course, important that we seek the right measure, the right balance between the right to be protected and the measure. You are referring to the decision by which the Constitutional Court annulled certain provisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases in connection with the proposal for a amendment to this Act adopted by the Government at its meeting on 18 June. Let me explain here that the Law on Infectious Diseases is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Health, that other ministers can comment on draft amendments or draft legislation under the established procedures, and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can adopt and forward such a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that Members can discuss this legislative proposal in the legislative process, you can supplement and amend it, and that you will eventually either accept it or reject it. The role of the whole legislative process is therefore clearly drawn up and replaced. I therefore argue that, even at this point, interpolation is resubstantially unfounded, and indeed constitutes a dangerous precedent, according to which political responsibility could be exercised entirely separately from the powers for which individual ministers are appointed and thus responsible. I swore to the National Assembly before Members and Members in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution on 15 June this year that I would respect the constitutional order, follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. I consider the Constitutional Court’s decision on the Law on Infectious Diseases of 13 May 2021 to be important, in view of strengthening the principle of legality at the time of action or prevention of infections. I can also say that I consider the proposed amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was adopted by the Government on 18 June this year, to be progress. I also agree with the additions that occurred in the National Assembly in the legislative process. From this point of view, I regret that this amendment has not been adopted, for it would strengthen respect for the principle of legality and better protect human health – a health that, according to recent figures, has been seriously endangered along with our health system. With regard to the proposal for the amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, the Ministry of Justice made comments on certain aspects of legality before my ministerial function, i.e. June 11th. Similar comments were made on 27 August regarding the proposed law at the time. The government's decision on this marriage novel was, as always, a collective decision of the ministerial assembly. As Minister of Justice, I am the same as other ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am responsible and responsible for the area of justice as defined in Article 37 of the Law on State Administration. To answer directly between the lines of the text of the interpolation. With regard to the protection of the rule of law, the Ministry remains consistent and will work in the future. In doing so, I stress that in order to comply with the principle of legality, each ministry is primarily responsible within its own work cycle. On the issue of human rights and the basis of freedom through proposals for legislation, the Ministry of Justice has the role of studying and planning the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. This means, inter alia, that the Ministry of Justice can also consult other ministries and draw attention to certain concerns. The Ministry of Justice therefore plays a consultative role, but in view of the constitutional and legal arrangements for the responsibility of ministers in the Republic of Slovenia, it cannot become a responsibility for the work of the second department and the competent minister. For a more graphic representation of the activities of the Ministry of Justice in this function, I tell you that in 2021 to Friday, 19 November, we received 142 different rules for the review. In the context of cross-cutting coordination, we have given our opinions in 205 cases, which means that we have engaged several times in some of the regulations in our advisory role. And let me take down the responsible third point of interpolation. As Minister of Justice, I am solely responsible for the field of justice. Even though the public would often wish otherwise, you Members know that I am the Minister of Justice and not the law as such. Let me move on to the final reading in the interpolation, to the alleged harmful reversal of the operation of the only notariat in the Lower Savina Valley. Before I became a candidate for a minister, I wanted to exercise my constitutional right to work and become a notary. I applied for a vacant seat on 25 May 2020, and the former Minister of Justice resigned more than one year later. I applied for the invitation because it is a profession of notary, which I consider to be very important in ensuring and respecting the legal security and welfare of people. The free choice of profession allows everyone, including a person who may later become a minister, to choose his job freely, since every job should be accessible to everyone under the same conditions. Thus, any person may also apply to a free place of notary, if, of course, he considers that he meets the conditions laid down. Either he actually fulfils the conditions and in the final instance, the court decides. And that's what happened in my case. The fact is, I brought an action on 16 September 2020. It was decided by the Administrative Court on 14 October 2020. On 20 January 2021, the Supreme Court ruled on the appeal against the judgment. The views of the applicants under this interpretation also refer to the constitutional right to judicial protection against the decisions of the administrative authorities, which each of us has. It is obvious, however, that the applicants consider the exercise of this fundamental right to delay the procedure. On 24 May 2021, the Ministry of Justice, under the former Minister, issued a decision on the appointment of a notary for a duty-free place, which is not yet legally binding today, as one of the unelected candidates against the provision issued on 22 June this year raised an administrative dispute. In order to clarify the facts, I stress that one of the candidates who was declared and not selected has complained, but this candidate is not me, as he wants to appear in public, because I was not actually a candidate in the process at the time. The notariat in the Žalec closed, as the proponents put it, the notary so far who gave up the notariat with the application in which he himself set the date of termination. When the discharge decision was already in force, he changed his mind and wanted to set the termination date at a later date. Since, therefore, the decision to release the notary to its wishes by a specified date of termination was already legally binding, the application for extension had to be rejected. When I became Minister, I was completely excluded from the decision-making process on the role of the grieving notary or excluded from this administrative procedure by the Government, which is why I did not decide on this rejection and the arguments made by the interpellation motioners are completely unrealistic. However, a final decision will be taken by the court on the action brought against this rejection decision. The notary concerned states that there is no reason why the extension of the notariat would not be approved and that it is merely a matter of formality, but that it constitutes a misunderstanding, namely the provisions of the Notariat Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which the legal relationship governed by a legislative decision of the State authority may be abolished, repealed or amended only in cases and in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. The Notariat Act requires the Notary Chamber of Slovenia to determine, in such a case, notaries or notaries who will perform periodic tasks and ensure that the parties do not detect disturbances. The Notary Chamber of Slovenia informed the Ministry of Justice on 1 July this year that the Notary archive of the former notary fully trusted in the temporary storage and operation of Notary Alexander Frost from Celje. This notary was also established for the purpose of carrying out periodic operations in a temporary vacant place in Žalec. And this is where we get to the core of the obvious problem. Throughout the entire text we can read how I do not respect the rule of law. On the other hand, you expect me, in this particular case, to extend the performance of a notariat without a legal basis, so that I would certainly be in serious breach of this principle. That's why I absolutely reject these findings. To conclude, let me state clearly and again the key finding relating to interpolation. Today's interpolation does not address or criticize my work. It is clear that I am being intertwined only because I am the minister of this government, which is contrary to the essence of the interpolation institute. In my first statement regarding the non-titlement of European Delegated Prosecutors, I repeat that the claims of the legal profession, as stated in the interpretation, are not those which bind the Minister, but are exclusively and only the legal acts in force in this country. The complication with the appointment of the Delegated Prosecutors is despite different indications of a legal nature that will probably be resolved by the judiciary in the final stage, which, of course, I will take into account, as I have always been. On the basis of a recent decision by the Government, however, I wish to be able to participate fully in the European Public Prosecutor's Office until then. Further, I have a clear responsibility regarding the speed of appointment of state prosecutors. At the same time, the applicant himself states that the problem is not the execution of an appeal, which is the only jurisdiction I have under the State Prosecutor's Act in appointing state prosecutors. On the third reading, you're actually telling me that I'm not some superminister of law and that I don't cut off my legal powers. Interpellation, I repeat, is also substantively unfounded in this place, and as such it truly represents a dangerous precedent, according to which political responsibility could be exercised entirely separately from the responsibility of the individual minister. At the last point of interpolation, however, my free choice of employment is also problematic, or the possibility of competing for this and the use of legal remedies, which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides to each of us under the same conditions. If we draw the line, my motions throughout the interpellation are flatly accusing me of acting against the rule of law, but at the same time you tell me that I am following the letter of the law, in a particular case of course, and that you should interfere with the legal powers of other departments. That is why, as it is said, I completely reject interpellation because I follow the Constitution, the laws and my own conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf too! At the outset, I would like to say, Mr Minister, that you are not intertwined because you are a member of this government, but because you have left due diligence in your work. Just like your colleague, from whom you took over the baton, as you wrote, she was not intertwined because she's a woman, but because she's a bad minister. In every normal, mature democratic and legal country, officials should be an example to other citizens and citizens. In particular, it is the Minister of Justice who, of all ministers, should enjoy the highest degree of trust among people and always act legally, fairly and transparently if you want to be the Prime Minister for Law within the Government and point out mistakes and point out violations of the rule of law, because you are still part of the collective body. The Minister of Justice should be a respected, respectable, legally unobstructed person. All the actions of the Minister, both those performed in his work and those of his private life, should contribute to strengthening public confidence in his work and his integrity. Dear Minister, we are confident that you are not a trustworthy person. Although you are today the Minister of Justice, it is very abominable and absurd that if you were competing for another job today, even a lower paid job in the public sector, such as the Ministry of Justice, let's say that you would want to be an official at the Ministry of Justice, you would not get employment because you do not even meet the formal conditions, you do not have a certificate required in public sector jobs, so you do not have a certificate of impunity or have no confirmation that you are not currently in criminal proceedings because you are. You said recently, I quote you: “The question of the payment of the municipal contribution is my personal matter and is not related to the ministerial work.” Indeed, even the municipal contribution of the Municipality of Šentjur did not pay for quite some time. You only settled it last week, but this is your personal matter, as you say, as your personal matter is also a criminal charge. Dear Minister Dikaucič, it is true that today we are discussing interpretation in the National Assembly, which is a special form of the exercise of the Minister's responsibility for his work. It's a political, moral, legal responsibility, a very broad concept. So it's an interpretation of his work, not his private life or his government membership. However, your work is also drafting legislation on criminal law, insolvency law and the like. In view of your past and the evidence from the indictments, we rightly ask citizens and citizens how we can trust you to draw up legislation that will be qualitative and, above all, will not be linked to the interests of the parties. For this reason, we have rightly, logically and implicitly expected citizens and citizens to step down because they are mature in mature democracies and are immediately giving up responsible policies. Dear Minister Dikaucič, you, as Minister of Justice, should be the first defender of the law, the rule of law, the constitution and the laws. As Minister of Justice, you are responsible for the preparation of quality legislation in the field of justice. You are responsible for the work of the Ministry of Justice, which you run, as well as for your own work. This is your individual responsibility as minister. Moreover, it is your responsibility, because you are a member or part of the government, also collective. This means that, as Minister, you are responsible for the work of the government as a whole, you are responsible for the general policy of the government. This shows that, as Minister, you are responsible for any decision taken by the government, whether you agree with it or not. The only way to get rid of your responsibilities for the government's decisions is if you resign from the minister's office. And if we go further to your individual responsibility, your honorary minister. When a political body submits a proposal, such as the last amendment to the Penal Code, it is your absolute priority to align such a proposal with the profession or, more precisely, to take into account the expertise, not to deny it absolutely. There are some such provisions in the proposal for a penal code which strongly opposes them. It is clear, therefore, that these provisions have been proposed solely because of some private interests, in which case the interests of the current ruling authorities. Some provisions were not even subject to professional coordination, but were subsequently added to the paper. Let's say a change in the crimes of threat and coercion. And that's unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that, in the proposed amendments to the Penal Code, you have written down in the introductory provisions that two professors have participated in its preparation, and that later these two professors have informed us in writing that they have not cooperated in this Proposal for a Penal Code, that they have only participated in the group on changes in criminal offences against sexual inviolability. And that is your responsibility, Mr. Secretary-General. You are also responsible for reducing the budget for 2022 to the judiciary. On the Committee on Justice, the President of the Council of Justice pointed out that the Government for the Judiciary, the Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Justice had unilaterally reduced the funds originally allocated to them in June. If we conclude from the attitude of this government to justice, to the judiciary, it is obvious in this case that some kind of punishment of the judicial authorities by reducing budgetary resources is involved. This is a matter of urgent need, as this government is taking an unconstitutional decision, non-constitutional decisions, non-constitutional decisions under the current lane. The Constitutional Court is full of various initiatives on the assessment of constitutionality. On the other hand, for years and years we have been hearing about the human resources support of the State's Attorney's Office. The government has burdened them with cases, such as decisions on offences that did not have any legal basis and so on. As a result, there has been a unilateral reduction in funds. You didn't even have a dialogue with them, nor did you notify them. In fact, some themselves accidentally noticed it online when it was published. This is, of course, unacceptable and unacceptable. Almost all anti-Korona measures have been taken by the Government itself by decrees, without the National Assembly, without an appropriate legal basis. And here again is your responsibility, Your Honourable Minister, both individual and collective. You are responsible for the derogation of the National Assembly, because as a member of the Government you take his authority, you exclude him from the decision-making process. You are responsible for knowingly violating the principle of power-sharing in the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution clearly states that the restriction of human rights is decided solely by the legislator, i.e. directly loved representatives of the people. And this is a reflection of the principle of power-sharing, democracy and the rule of law. And that human rights and freedoms are allowed only under specific criteria, that they are appropriate when they pursue a constitutionally permissible objective, that they are proportionate and that they are absolutely necessary. Dear Minister Dikaucič, you are participating in a government that causes the erosion of the rule of law and undermines the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. As Minister of Justice, we should protect these foundations, our country's demands. You should be watching over respect for and enforcement of judicial decisions, so you are the ones who should take the lead in adopting the Law on Infectious Diseases as soon as possible, but we do not have it to date, even though the deadline for eliminating the unconstitutionality imposed by the Constitutional Court is long past. Last but not least, where your individual and, of course, still collective responsibility, the respected minister, in the saga, even the tragedy comedy, could be said, with the title Appointment or non-title of European Delegated Prosecutors. In response to the interpellation, you speak to the government about the fact that some things happened in this story before you became a minister, and finally to the fact that the level of protection of the financial interests of the European Union in Slovenia will not go down. Of course, they don't. Your responsibility has arisen from the moment you took office, Minister of Justice. Since then, a) you have published a new illegal call for nominations, b) deliberately misleading by interpreting the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office that a list of candidates must be created, c) then you rejected Elereva and Oštir's application for a repeated invitation to tender, and č) in the end you allowed the government to appoint two European Delegated Prosecutors last week, but only temporarily. Lawyers warn that the concept of temporary appointment does not exist at all, is not in any act, nor in our State Prosecutor's Office Act, nor is it known by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We do not even hope to predict how the European Public Prosecutor's Office will act in our case. We can only hope that the proposal will confirm and that Slovenia will finally finally get a European Delegated Prosecutor. We were actually the last country, just waiting for us. And this is your responsibility, Your Honorable Minister. Also, your statements, Your Honor, that your failure to appoint prosecutors does not impede the investigation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office are not genuine. The European chief prosecutor has repeatedly pointed out that, due to the failure to appoint prosecutors from Slovenia, the investigation of the misuse of European Union funds has been hampered. “Is the budget of the European Union still adequately protected?” the prosecutor asked in October 2021 before the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets. You are also responsible for not naming our Slovenian state prosecutors. The State Prosecutor's Council has repeatedly literally begged you, because to this day you have not decided on all candidates waiting. In the meantime you've confirmed some others, which is obvious that you're doing some selection in the sense of this yes, it's not. You've been making selections, stalling, even though you know very well that the D.A. has been calling attention to human resources distress for many years. If I conclude, the lack of responsibility, the well-respected minister, does not come under your authority. You are the justice minister, and your primary task is to observe the principles of constitutionality and legality. You should have the right first, and certainly not willfulness and arbitrariness. It is the State government which must be exercised only on the basis of the Constitution and laws, while ensuring human rights and freedoms, respect for human rights and freedoms, justice, legal security, rule of law. This state authority, this government and you, Minister, as part of this government, are by no means acting in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, so we will certainly support your resolution unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! Disclosures by the media about the former minister and his inexperience and thus the incompetence of the new authoritarian government have not stopped the decision. Dikaucič was appointed Minister of Justice after the resignation of Liljana Kozlovic, who, after being late, managed at least a minimum gesture of pride in this disgraceful government and resigned prematurely. We were quite surprised at his candidacy as Minister. Marjan Dikauchič was a complete anonymous figure for the public. We met in Levica for the first time only at the time of the runoff. He didn't convince us. Moreover, he raised suspicion that his candidacy was not all right, that in fact he was just a figure who had to play a specific role in the Jansze Dramalet. A similar role, played by Minister Simona Kustec, for example, and our suspicions were unfortunately confirmed in several months of his ministry. Being Minister of Justice is one of the highest and most responsible functions in the executive branch, at least it should be, but things change radically, as we see them inventing and wishing the Minister of Justice Zdravko Počvalšek and Janez Janša. It is now confirmed that members of the coalition and their followers did not want to hear or hear at the hearing, to disregard. Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič, a specialist in the chaining of straw companies, is suspected of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business lists. In any country, a mature democratic state would be subject to such accusations and would defend its alleged innocence from a clean position. But Minister Dikaucič, used to all sorts of tricks and frauds, he's obviously not going to do that. Worse yet, the minister defends himself with a well-known maneuver, saying that someone forged his signature and calls for the help of a graphologist. It's the same M.O. as with Minister Visiak at the time of the affair of stupid taxes when the minister claimed that the tapes were taped until the experts put him on the lie. Well, Minister Dikaucič is frantically rounding up his chair, no matter what, even in spite of the fact that Ange Erbežnik, the Secretary of State, escaped him in the meantime, after only a month of his ministry. However, the fugitive Erbežnik told Minister Dikaucic in a public letter about a number of things. He wrote, among other things: “I am sending myself away because of the incompetence of professional work, in respect of the law of the European Union, the rule of law and the rule of law and human rights.” End of story. Such a very burdensome statement by Erbežnik, who is from the minister, by the way, a much more reference person when it comes to the justice department, should be of concern to us. But let's get back to the point right now. In each of the approximately mature and normal democracies, the Minister of Justice, against which a request for judicial investigation is made for tax evasion and for counterfeiting of business documents, would offer a derogation himself. And if he wasn't, he'd be dismissed by every righteous minister. Dikaucič as an official in the performance of his office and public performance certainly does not contribute to strengthening the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor do these suspicions contribute to strengthening public confidence in its work and the integrity of the Government of Slovenia and of the body in which it functions. If we draw the line, the conduct of Minister Dikaucič is in no way sufficient and in no way sufficient to meet the standards of legality and honour, and it is irrelevant that the Minister is currently only in a judicial investigation. The ethical principles of policy action should be a standard that should be followed in politics and society, but by the current government, which should have been fully decommissioned long ago, as it endlessly disgraces the reputation of the country at home and throughout the world, these standards are long gone. Of course, Dikaucic's setup was neither an accident nor a slip of this coalition. It was precisely why they set it up, and this was immediately also shown at the hearing when, as a candidate for the justice minister, he did not have a public position on not naming European Delegated Prosecutors. This heart problem, this internationally reverberating scandal, he didn't comment. He scurried away, this was well-instructed that he should be held back in his opinion, because otherwise he could have influenced any court proceedings. He snuck away like an eel and fled, and that was the key reason for his predecessor, Liljana Kozlovich. So he can bite the hand that led him to the trough right away to a really greasy bite? Absolutely not. As this greasy bite, despite the increasingly thick layer of butter on its head, this puppet minister obviously does not intend to renounce even now that he has been subjected to a request for judicial investigation for the purpose of the criminal offence of tax evasion and falsification of business documents. And we're also at the hearing when we got closer to getting acquainted with the disturbing minister's biography, which is read as a small criminal record. The first shock we experienced when we learned that he had unsuccessfully competed for the Notary City in Žalec, but he was not selected on the invitation because he simply did not have enough experience. So before us was a candidate for a justice minister who could not become a notary because of his lack of experience. I know it sounds crazy, but these are according to the new standards and norms of the ruling coalition. And if that were all, we'd still be alive, but the real freak is just following. We have done with the help of the excellent work of research journalists of the website portal Necensurirano.si that Minister Dikaucič was involved in at least two stories in which companies landed in the hands of straw owners. Between 2012 and 2017, SCL was the director of the company, which has been issuing blank balance sheets at that time. Officially, it was free of assets, capital and revenues. After Dikaucič left his post as director, he was replaced by a Ukrainian citizen, Olena Holiuk, and the owner became homeless from Maribor. Today, SCL is without a bank account and has an outstanding tax liability of more than EUR 10 000. But this is not the end of the Minister's success in the business field. I repeat from the portal Uncensored.si. I quote: »Dikaucič also led the family company Transport Žižek from Črenšovtev. At the same time, its owners opened a new company that took over most of the business. Shortly after Dikaucič left the post of director, the company Transporti Žižek got in trouble and ended up in bankruptcy. A number of ten creditors reported about EUR 1.3 million of claims, including Furs. End of story. We cannot conclude from this that the Minister is directly responsible for the bankruptcy and has apparently prepared appropriate conditions for bankruptcy. I mean, the minister obviously wasn't just an expert on bankruptcy procedures, but he was also an expert on pre-trial procedures. Well, the circle is now closed. Marjan Dikaucič was in the premonition process. He is suspected of being the responsible person of BGA, based in Gornji Bistrica and the company Prevodi Žižek d.o.o., which is in bankruptcy. In the forecasting procedure, it was intended to establish that Transport Žižek avoided payment of value added tax when selling goods to BGA. By false documentation of the sale of goods, it is intended to show that this was sold to another country, namely West Alpine, d.o.o., from Croatia and that BGA purchased it from West Alpine GmbH, Leipzig, Germany after the sale. All of this should not be true, as the documentation collected on sales and transport from other countries was not credible. In order to avoid tax obligations, the state budget would be so damaged by €52 000. On 25 August 2017, the Prosecutor's Office confirmed that they had received a criminal complaint from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia against Marjan Dikaucič on the suspicion of the offence of tax evasion under Article 249(1) of the Penal Code, criminal offence of falsification or destruction of business documents under Article 235(1) of the Penal Code and criminal offence of falsification of documents under Article 251(1) of the Penal Code. That the measure was complete, the minister simply closed the notary office in Žalec or, as he said today, did not approve of the extension of the operation, i.e. this notariat, a notariat who himself had failed to urinate and who had failed to urinate his wife. In this arbitrary decision, he totally ignored the opinion of the Notary Chamber. The entire Lower Savina Valley was thus lost overnight without a notariat and the employees were temporarily sent to the Employment Institute. A notary from Celje works in Žalec once a week, or people are forced to search for services elsewhere. Why he did it, it's probably not hard to conclude. In addition, Minister Dikaucič, who seems to be free of charge by Minister Viszak, “stupid” only now, is paid the municipal contribution of the Municipality of Šentjur, which owed him about 30 000 euros to pay for part of the costs of construction and use of water, sewerage and road. The Minister would therefore build a house, but he would not pay the municipal contribution or pay it just now, with more than obvious intent to gain the support of the Desus Group of Ambassadors and, above all, the Ambassador of Polnar, former Deputy Mayor of Šentjur, and thus save himself a chair. However, the late payment of the municipal contribution still does not change the fact that it is totally unacceptable from a political point of view that the Minister of Justice is in a judicial investigation for tax evasion and falsification of official documents. In the case of Dikaucič as a spineless minister, there is also evidence that he is not disturbed by the apparent interference of the Government of Slovenia with human rights, which is demonstrated mainly by the rule of decrees and not by laws, which the Government has consistently been doing. Let us just remember the case a few days ago when the Minister of Peace of Mind allowed another constitutional dispute despite the decisive revolution of the profession, opposition and civil society: the entry of a modern-day verbal delinquency into the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, which, among other things, raises the political class over the ordinary citizen, thus clearly violating the principle that we are all equal before the law. He also lied about the fact that the profession was involved, even though this strongly denied it. Inadmissible and extremely repulsive. Finally, Slovenia was until a few days ago the only country in the European Union that did not appoint European Delegated Prosecutors, or after long suffering and difficulties, only received them now, on 18 November, just before the interpolation. And this is only for a certain period of time, until the national part of the procedure is completed. Even though legal experts say that the concept of temporaryity does not know the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, Marionet Minister Dikaucič insists that a temporary proposal for the appointment of Delegated Prosecutors is possible under a regulation of the European Union. We know that not naming European Delegated Prosecutors was not the only point of disagreement between the former Minister and the Prime Minister or coalition MPs. It was clear that the ruling coalition had its full solution throughout this mandate, often on the verge of constitutionally permissible, but always in the direction of narrowing the independence of the judiciary. And it's more than obvious that the exchange at the minister's office in justice is now all settled. The Minister does not act as if he is part of the government, because he does not judge the decision of the government which he is supposed to be part of. He acts as the head of a small state office, where he is carelessly carrying out his duties and making sure that he is not responsible for anything, has no opinion of anything and just makes sure that everything he does is at least legally correct. Just do it. He doesn't even go to a meeting of the Justice Committee. He sends his secretary of state. That in Slovenia we have the Minister of Justice, who is in the pre-trial procedure, is the best caricature of the government of Janez Janša: violation of the constitution, adoption of decisions that do not have a basis in law, ignoring court decisions, changing the rules so that they can appoint their faithful staff to the leadership positions and so on. Why don't we have someone in charge of the prosecution and the court as the Minister of Justice, that is, the state authorities who are concerned with the functioning of the Ministry of Justice? As long as it holds a chair in the Ministry, it has a direct impact on the functioning of these organs. The minister says the tracks stop, the laws, and his own conscience. Well, I'm sure your own bona fide conscience, no doubt about it, what is evident to Minister Dikaucic about his management of businesses is a crime, but even more so is his involvement in a clearly corrupt government that has been quietly assisting her. Well, the Minister is convinced that the European Delegated Prosecutors are on a temporary basis, and we in Levica are convinced that the Minister in his place of employment is only temporary, that he should not be in this position for one day, one hour, today is the time to end his temporaryity. In Levica, we will have no doubt unitedly supported the intervention against Minister Dikaucic, and we hope that in this call of the National Assembly, ethical criteria and reason will finally prevail and that Minister Dikaucič will conclude his ministerial adventure today, which should never have occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation is the institute of every opposition. It can draw attention to certain problems in society or, more specifically, to the problems faced by the individual within the government. The Minister's political responsibility is determined. Observations in the Minister's interpretation must refer to a legal framework of competence covered by a specific minister or ministry. On 7 September 2021, the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic filed an interpretation with Marjan Dikaucic. This is more than 100 days after the start of the function. At the time of appointment, we welcomed the ministers' plans for digitisation of justice in all areas: the ethical use of artificial intelligence and the implementation of certain investments in the field of justice, which have been planned for many years. We also welcomed the plan for the renewal of insolvency legislation, which would primarily help to preserve healthy cores of the economy and keep jobs while paying creditors as much as possible. Today's debate is certainly also an opportunity to say something about the state of justice and our solutions. We see the Christian Democrats of justice as an essential tool for ensuring justice, peaceful coexistence and creation in society, but also as an important element of our country-building. Our efforts in this area are therefore also in this mandate and will also be focused in the future on strengthening the quality of justice, its effectiveness and maximum comparability with the countries of the north of us. This is the only way for the Republic of Slovenia to live fully as a just country. The opposition has been extremely sharp since this government's appearance in shaping its perceptions of the so-called breakdown of the rule of law. Nevertheless, the delegation of the European Parliament, which has been checking the state of the rule of law for three days, has pointed out that public institutions and public authorities operate. Trust in Slovenian justice is a problem for many years. According to a survey by the EU Justice Scoreboard, this was, interestingly, a major problem in the years when left-wing governments were targeted. It is gratifying that the situation has improved slightly over the last period, but the confidence of the Slovenians has gradually improved slightly. The public's confidence in the independence of the judiciary is better in 2021 than in the last five years. We probably all agree that the position of Minister is one of the most responsible functions in the country. An individual who assumes such a high function must be a person of absolute personal and moral integrity. There's probably no doubt about that. In countries with advanced democracy, this is perfectly self-evident. As soon as there is any serious suspicion of a certain irregularity, not necessarily illegality, which would have been committed by an official before or during the performance of his duties, there will be an immediate departure from office. We stress, however, that such suspicion must be serious and justified. This is a practice in the countries of the European Union that have mature democracy. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will not be supported by the proposed interpretation, because the Minister is not politically responsible for the findings in the interpretation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Interpellators today tell Minister Marjan Dikaucic of a number of things, from his constitutionally guaranteed freedom to work or choice of profession, political inexperience, non-compliance with legal acts, constitutions and government decisions, efforts to appoint European Delegated Prosecutors as quickly as possible to non-compliance with non-Doums. While we can understand the trend of the proposers in the modern centre Party Group, the result of today's written interpolation. The non-titlement of European Delegated Prosecutors, which refers to the first point of interpretation, is a saga which, according to the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, has been dragging for too long. However, the undeniable fact is that Minister Dikaucič has done everything in his power since his appointment to ensure that Slovenia has a European Delegated Prosecutor as soon as possible in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And that's what he did with the invitation to tender. The criticism of the applicants in the interpretation refers to the illegality of the public prosecutor's call for the submission of nominations for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors, based on the opinion of the proponents, of the wrong interpretation of the legal procedure for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. The fact is that the Minister is bound by the legal acts in force in this country, and these are the constitutions, laws and decisions of the Government. These acts shall be valid and legal until otherwise decided by the competent authorities — the Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court. However, the Minister is always bound by the decision of the courts. Both of these commitments were also respected by the Minister in the context of the implementation of the notice. We are pleased that last Thursday, 18 November, we have taken a step in the right direction and decided to propose temporarily to the European Public Prosecutor's Office two candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor, at least until the nomination process is completed. If you are a proponent of the illegality of the public calling on the state's prosecutors to submit their applications, let us ask you the following question. How, then, do you explain that prosecutors who are legally bound in this country have applied for an invitation to tender? Isn't that a clear indication that you don't think he's illegal? The Minister shall also be held accountable for the speed of the appointment of state prosecutors, while at the same time citing that the problem is not in the execution of calls for a free seat of the state prosecutor, which is the only jurisdiction he has as Minister of Justice under the State Prosecutor's Act regarding the appointment of state prosecutors. During the term of office of Minister Dikaucic, three proposals for the appointment of a public prosecutor were drawn up and sent to the Government. The Ministry of Justice, under its authority, shall, in this procedure, act as Prosecutors of the State, act in a lawful and current manner. Throughout the Minister's interpretation, the motioners are flatly accusing him of acting against the rule of law while at the same time informing him that he is following the letter of the law, in a particular case, and that he should intervene according to them in the legal jurisdiction of other authorities. Minister Dikaucič has been accused of non-controversy in the interpretation of the attempted removal by the Constitutional Court of a finding of non-compliance with Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases. The Minister of Health is primarily responsible for the proposal of the law on communicable diseases. Despite the fact that under Article 37 of the Law on State Administration, Minister Dikaucič is also carrying out the tasks of studying and planning the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms, the role of the Ministry of Justice in ensuring the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is not subordinated to other ministries, but rather rather to a non-binding consultative role that cannot give rise to responsibility. Under the direction of the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice continues its critical professional assessment of the proposals of other departments in the framework of inter-departmental coordination. Minister Dikaucič, in response to the interpolation, wrote this statement of non-resistance in the amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases: the Minister of Justice's interpretation of the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases is as meaningful as the intervention of the Minister of Culture for waste management. In the text of the interpretation, even the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which I quote, "all its members are jointly responsible for the government, and the Minister responsible for the work of the individual ministry", which is clearly explained in their own way. Last but not least, this would not be an intervention if the applicants did not go to the personal level and in today's case criticize the ministers of past career success and quality, together with the apparent delay in the appointment of the new notary in the Žalec and the responsibility of closing the pitiful notary office. Both findings were rejected by the minister both in response to the interpretation and in today's opening address. Today, we are once again witnessing that the opposition is serving precisely all legitimate methods of overthrowing the government, but the lack of originality and creativity in the content of interpolation and their findings are merely flat-rate. The motioners wrote in the interpretation that Minister Dikaucič was involved in the personal war of the Prime Minister. This statement makes it clear that the Minister is primarily intertwined only because he is the Minister of this Government, and the obvious is not particularly relevant to his work, but is wrapped up in the decisions of the Government. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, despite the conflicting opinion of today's interpellationers, we are convinced that the Minister is carrying out his work in a responsible and lawful manner. Specific cases: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Book, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Rules on Judicial Experts, Judges and Court Interpreters, Regulation on Restrictions and Duties of Officials in respect of the Adoption of Gifts, Modernisation of Courts with Videoconference Systems. These are just a few of the legal content that the Ministry of Justice, led by Marjan Dikaucič, managed to implement during the five-month period of his ministry. He also launched the Children's House project, whose main purpose is to protect child abuse victims with the help of experts, as well as to provide as little trauma to the collection of evidence as possible and to punish the perpetrators as quickly as possible. However, the Ministry certainly has a number of projects pending the end of the mandate, which could still be devoted to them today, and the circumstances are, unfortunately, inappropriate. Although the interpolation tool is a legitimate move by the opposition, in these times it smells more like something else. All the opposition's efforts to overthrow the government have already exceeded the bounds of good taste and all of this is becoming unserious. Despite all the obstacles the opposition faces to the coalition groups, we are convinced in the Group of the Modern Centre Party that it is possible to make a much more productive use of the time until 24 April, by the first possible deadline for regular elections, of which we will have the most citizens and citizens, who are also sitting in these parliamentary benches. While the thought of the peaceful functioning of the National Assembly seems utopian until the end of the mandate at a given time, we will work to the best of our ability in the Group of the Modern Centre Party to fulfil the commitments contained in the Coalition Treaty and complete the mandate, as is the case. Interpellations on the work and responsibility of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of Justice! It has been more than five months since Mr Dikaucič was confirmed as Minister in this house. At the time of his presentation as a candidate for Minister, we were skeptical in the party of the SAB. Both the political and the general public were completely unknown and we could only create a picture of it with a few media records, and these, hand to heart, were not the most promising. We have read about various straw companies with suspicious cash flows – they are supposed to participate as employees or even as decisive, about failed attempts to run for certain positions, and about friendship with the infamous Rock Snezic. At the hearing, we therefore hoped for more information on his work, competences and the values and beliefs he will lead in his ministry. However, we have not been able to find out where, where and what he was doing before he became a candidate for minister, and which are some of the values that he will represent as a candidate for the Minister of Justice in the judicial field. On the other hand, we have received extensive presentations of the work of the justice ministry so far, which has apparently been well prepared by the Ministry of Justice. We were most disturbed by the fact that Mr Dikaucič, as a candidate for a minister, did not want to be defined in any way with regard to the most pressing issue in the field of the justice of Slovenia at that moment and even now. It is the appointment of so-called European Delegated Prosecutors. On the basis of all that, at the time of Mr Dikaucic's appointment as Minister of Justice in the SAB, we rightly assumed that there would be only one puppet in the hands of the Prime Minister. In this government it doesn't matter who's sitting on which chair or who's sitting on the minister's chair. It is only obvious that the Minister is obedient, obedient, and acting in accordance with the current government or its agenda, which has changed Slovenia for over a year and a half before our eyes and has been working with it in another republic. Such suspicions have only been confirmed in the last five months. The Saga on the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors reflects both at home and in Europe and has an important impact on the reputation of our country in the European Union. And, of course, this influence is extremely negative. It is more than obvious that the two candidates proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council, the ruling politicians, do not have a chance and that they want to blackmail the prosecutor in any way by their taste. Rather than finally getting both Delegated Prosecutors from Slovenia and thus allowing for the smooth functioning of an important European institution, it is unfortunately becoming more complicated. The Government has annulled the original invitation to tender and has decided not to make the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Council for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors aware of what is directly contrary to the provisions of the law. For no valid reason, she did so without a thorough explanation. At the same time, it ordered the Ministry and the Minister of Justice to issue a new invitation to tender, to which those candidates then applied again. Prior to that, the applicants brought an action before the Administrative Court, which was expected by all the professional public to find that the decision of the Government by which the original invitation to tender was revoked was illegal. In addition, the court brought the matter back to trial. Nevertheless, the government and the Minister of Justice continue to seek excuses to prevent the appointment of candidates. And when we thought it couldn't get any worse, the government went even further in its arbitrary and arbitrary activities. By its decision, it decided that the Administrative Court’s judgment on the renegotiation of the invitation to tender could not be carried out as the new tender was already under way. By doing so, she arbitrarily stood over the judicial branch of power, which is unacceptable. On the other hand, the Minister of Justice has rejected the re-application of candidates. As a result of the decision of the Administrative Court, it was decided, after some reports, that the original invitation to tender was still open to the jurisdiction of the judgment. His decision is therefore diametrically contrary to the government's decision. Thus, we cannot shake the feeling that such a decision, contrary to the government's decision, was only linked to today's interpretation. We are therefore witnessing the most bizarre situation, which is clearly under the responsibility of Minister Dikaucič. In the absence of respect for laws, constitutions and judicial decisions, Slovenia has already entered a very infamous list of those countries which the European Union considers problematic and which have problems with the rule of law. After all this confusion last Thursday, the news of the temporary appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors was echoed. Temporarily. The fact that there have been speculations that today's interpolation may succeed and that the government has only taken such a decision a few days before today's interpolation is certainly no coincidence. In the SAB we estimate that it is an unfortunate attempt to save the Minister's skin, as the law of temporary appointment of the Delegated Prosecutors does not foresee at all and the government simply invented it. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 2, that Slovenia is a rule of law and that the rule of law must act in accordance with the Constitution and laws and that human rights and fundamental freedoms must be placed at the forefront of the rule of law. And the Minister of Justice should be the guardian of such a state of law. However, we have a man at the head of the Ministry of Justice who does not respect the rule of law and is currently in the forecasting process for tax evasion offences. His arguments today that he may be at interpolation because the Constitution and the law are too consistently respected are, therefore, ridiculous. If the country is run by people who do not respect fundamental legal requirements, how can we expect citizens to do so? In the SAB, the socialliberal party, we strongly stress the respect for human rights, the rule of law and the rule of law, which we cannot claim for Mr Dikaucuchuč in the light of everything he has said. That is why today, in the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today it is the turn of the second interpellation to convene the 27th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Although in the DESUS Group we believe that interpretations in most cases are merely a search for political points, we have read the text of the interpretation against Minister Dikaucic in particular. Among the obvious are many, from not naming the Delegated Prosecutors to the evidence of the political names of the Prosecutors and the events of the Notariat in the Lower Savina Valley. More than once, however, it appeared in the media, which repeatedly revealed new and new alleged irregularities in the past part of the minister. In the Desus Group, we gave special attention to this history. We are aware that only a few months from now can a new minister take over the management of his department in concrete and ongoing terms. Although the former justice minister, Mrs Liljana Kozlovich, was doing her job well and the transition for the new minister was undoubtedly easier thanks to her, the dark past of the new minister is coming again and again. Our biggest concern was the alleged tax evasion and the alleged counterfeiting of business documents. That the Justice Minister is in court is a precedent that we simply cannot understand in Desus. Moreover, at that time the candidate for the justice minister deliberately decided to enter politics and public life despite the disputed background. His history thus sheds a bad light on everyone who works in politics. If we were more specifically informed at the time of the election vote, our decision on support would probably be different. Disputes involving BGA and the company Transport Žižek are thrown at the minister - responsible person in those cases, very bad light. Members and ministers should be examples to citizens. Damage to the state budget by each individual is a crime. The Minister has not yet given concrete explanations in this regard, and today we expect concrete answers from him. The articles in line on its relationship with straw companies are an additional argument to be taken into account by the Members of Desus in the vote. The records surrounding his work as a bankruptcy manager are very disturbing. Exploitation and exploitation on the basis of the distortion of applicable legislation and the delaying of procedures and the erasure of traces through foreigners and homeless is a practice that the Minister of Justice should pursue, and we can read that this practice may even be carried out by the Minister of Justice himself. All these eyewitnesses are really unlikely. In the Desus Group, we really need specific clarifications. As we have already reported in public response days ago, we are strongly inclined to support the interpretation, but we will still, because we think it is right, listen also to the Minister's statement. We've heard that before today. As we say, Members of the Desus Group will also listen carefully to all other answers to questions from Minister Dikaucic. We have no doubt that many questions will arise during the day, which will require urgent clarifications from the Justice Minister. We have also highlighted a few topics and we expect the Minister to explain the matter in concrete terms. Our final decision will be taken after the end of the debate. But if we do not get satisfactory answers and explain the circumstances, then our decision will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is correct to assume that today's debate on the work of Mr Dikaucic, Minister of Justice, even if we are judged by the presence in the Chamber, will again be inescapable, as the Minister of Education, Science and Sport wrote when interpreting one of Slovenia's national media – a fugitive. We will talk without listening, as the facts in the interpellations of ministers that we have been dealing with in recent months have probably become completely irrelevant. Indeed, the results of the votes are increasingly dominated by the political trades that this government is making with those parliamentary groups that are not officially part of its coalition. For the introduction, let me borrow the thought expressed by Morgan Freeman in the black satirical comedy. Justice is right, and the right is a modest attempt to write down the principles of decency. Justice and justice are the foundation of every democratic state, as they try to explain to people where decency ends and rudeness begins. However, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice in Slovenia are among the first to be called to take care of these criteria. In the last year, however, it has turned out that in the context of this quote, we unfortunately live in a black comedy that is not satirical anymore, but contains many elements of tragedy. This is the last thing common people feel most about their skin, for the privileged people of this government have been able to peacefully afford to violate these modest principles of decency. Let me remind you. At the time of the country's strictest closure, they met in innhouses, those that should be closed. They tried to cross the state border over the rules they wrote themselves. They wrote illegal and unconstitutional regulations, and when the Constitutional Court warned them of this, they dared the Constitutional Judges to teach them that we should look beyond the Constitution, that we are in crisis. Since they cannot and cannot do so, they have even been accused of being held accountable by the government, as the opposition does, and of being responsible for the diseases and deaths of citizens and citizens. Daily politicians have subordinated the police and it is only in this government that the personal lawyer of the chief of government can take control of the property, which remains formally in the hands of citizens and citizens of this country, and the tax collector is leading the personnel tsunami in Slovenian energy, where big profits are generated. At the same time, when we have a lower price of electricity in Slovenia than in most European countries, paying taxes and contributions makes a key contribution to the stability of public finances. This is just a few of the most trivial cases of indecency that this government literally informs people every day that we are not all alike before the law. Of course, the Minister of Justice is no exception. His choice, on the one hand, was a great representation of the human resources crisis of one of the coalition parties and, on the other hand, probably entirely in line with the criteria and needs of the head of the government. A man who did not meet the minimum legal conditions to become a notary is now a justice minister. In this short time, citizens and citizens have learned much more about him than was said at his hearing. Of course, on the basis of that information, Mr Dikaucič should not even sit in the Ministry's office, except that he was appointed Minister. Let us take a look at the obscene stories of this minister, who were most receptive to the public. Payment of the municipal contribution. First, the minister claimed that he did not want to pay him because he was too high, and he wanted to make a deal with the congregation for the lower. Probably 30,000 euros for a man who builds a new house on a minimum wage that he has paid for many years is a big deal if, of course, these revenues were his only source of wealth. And let's just leave the details. The municipality then explains that the municipal contribution is accounted for under the applicable rules and that it has no jurisdiction whatsoever to agree on a reduction with anyone. The minister insists he won't pay for it. Fortunately for the minister, the rules of accounting for the municipal contribution change and finally have the opportunity to pay a smaller municipal contribution. As the day of this interpretation is approaching, the media will quickly ensure that the new municipal contribution will be settled on the same day. They explain to the public that they were expecting him, but he wasn't there, and that he can't pay the same day if he hasn't even submitted a new application and his contribution hasn't even been re-assessed yet. Well, now he was, and he paid for it. I am sure that those colleagues and colleagues who today do not support the interpretation will easily ignore this minister's media lie, because their motives will be anything but decency, an end to worthlessness. Let's look at another case. The former Minister of Justice resigned because the government did not want to become aware of the choice of European Delegated Prosecutors chosen on the basis of the procedure laid down by the law. The prosecutor simply did not respond to the head of this government, and it was literally necessary to invent complications in the procedure in order to meet his wishes and expectations. It is likely that a man was appointed to the city of Lilliana Kozlovich, who apparently accepted with open hands the task of abolishing the legal procedure already under way. In the last week, it appeared that this scenario was clearly not drinking water either, and the government was forced by the choice of prosecutors to “temporarily” get to know. On this occasion, we ask the Minister of Justice what the word “temporary” means, the meaning of which no legal expert in Slovenia can explain to the public. Does this mean that the Government has a collective memory of the goldfish and will probably forget that when this interpolation passes, it has become aware of the appointment of prosecutors? Or is it just a pianist’s message to his own believers that it would not look as if the government had given in under pressure from Europe or traded parliamentary votes to address the Minister’s interpretation? Maybe for both of us. I would really like to clarify that the Ministry, which is headed by Mr Dikaucič, should draw up such a decision. Indeed, the legal profession and Europe could only laugh at the indecency of this government's legal locks if, of course, their results did not affect people's lives and undermine the foundations of democracy in the country, the end of corruption. And let's look at the third most exposed case in the public. The Minister of Justice is in court for tax evasion. It's a simple fact. This story, however, has not yet been remedied by the minister with government co-workers before today's interpretation of the interpretation. If the government, by means of a formal and informal coalition in this National Assembly, has been able to subordinate the police, it has not yet fully managed to bring the justice system under control. Of course, the Minister's explanations regarding this judicial investigation do not convince us, as they remind us too much of his explanations regarding the payment of the municipal contribution, in which the media have repeatedly caught him lying. The fact that we have a Minister of Justice in this country, who is under judicial investigation for tax evasion, is simply inappropriate. If I go back to that quote that the right of man is a modest attempt to write down the principles of decency, then I can only find out that this government and this minister are deliberately breaking down all the foundations of the rule of law and introducing indecency as a criterion for the conduct of the privileged. I know, colleagues and colleagues who don't support interpolation, that word and facts won't mean much, once again, the end of vanity. The government, which, according to her president's description when he was still in the opposition, is already a political body because of record low public support, after all the indecisive actions of its ministers or passengers, dares citizens to judge responsible behaviour in times of crisis. The irresponsible conduct of the work of citizens is solely due to the unscrupulous decisions of the government, ministers and convicts. The Minister of Justice is no exception in this regard, but rather a symptomatic representation of an eccentric violation of the principles of rule of law. The latest opinion poll has shown that at least 9 out of 10 citizens of Slovenia have already recognised the indecency of the decisions and actions imposed on us by this government suit together with Minister Dikaucic. Thus, there are few other believers who, after most of them on social networks, are still able to convince by pointing to the negligent opposition, which only exposes your indiscretions, by pointing to the courts that, according to you, do not want to look past the laws and constitution, and again at the media, for they dare write or say anything more than those who are under your capital and political control. Why is everything exposed to the context of today’s interpolation? Because the Ministry of Justice must be among the first to defend equality before the law and also all other principles of decency in Slovenia, and because I am convinced that this Minister of Justice was appointed solely to perform the tasks coming from the top of this government. The Minister of Justice is therefore only the symbolic top of the icy mountain of nullity that this government has witnessed in the past year and a half. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, we will support the intervention of the Minister of Justice as it is more than justified, even to show people that at least part of Slovenian policy is still willing to respect the modest principles of decency. Minister Dikaucič is one of the most unfortunate personnel of Zdravka Počvalska and the third government of Janšev, which, when the era of this coalition ends, will also acknowledge a number of its types, which shows this already today with the absence of this Chamber. And no, Minister, you're not intertwined because you're the minister of this government, and you're not intertwined because you're a man.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Chairman, thank you very much. Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellow Member, Fellow Members! In the SDS Group, today's interpretation is seen as a once-in-a-lifelong attempt to undermine the government by abuse of the parliamentary interpolation institute. From the text of the interpellation and today's presentation of the motioners are evident to Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic, who has nothing to do with his work as Minister of Justice. These opposition-interpellation games without borders have also achieved a new record with today's interpolation. Interpellation against Minister Dikaucic was lodged only a few months after the Minister's oath. From this point of view, it is more than obvious that the purpose of the intervention in question is, in fact, an eccentric abuse of the Institute of Interpellation and a waste not only of the time of the National Assembly, but also of the time of the Minister, who is part of a successful government team, just in the conclusion of the Slovenian leadership of the Council of the European Union. This time perspective of these few months, on the other hand, shows us the successful work of the Minister with his team, despite the fact that Minister Dikaucič is a fresh face in Slovenia as well as in the European political space, because he was very professionally engaged in dialogues, he was very successful in important topics such as the regulation of artificial intelligence, digital legacy and the rights of our children. It is clear that the opposition stems only from its own political interests and offers attracted arguments for them, rather than focusing on Slovenia's interests. But their political, destructive folklore has been watching this for a half-second year, when, in fact, they left the country's control because of their own incompetence. The political interest of the so-called KUL opposition is permanent. It is to weaken the government as much as possible, and it thinks it will succeed with a series of interpretations, but so far they've all burned down. Today, therefore, it is the turn of the distinguished Minister Dikaucič, who is, as it were, a new politician. In the light of all the evidence that the opposition has already put him on hold as a candidate at a hearing on his mother's working body, the new man is in politics for them, and here they see a man who has no political backstabbing in the established structures of the opposition, and he is clearly dangerous to them because of this fact. Interpellation shows this unworthy and undervalued approach, "let's break it down, it's politically the weakest article, but we'll come up with some reasons for doing it." Regardless of Slovenia's successful presidency of the EU Council in the field of justice, the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors has been mediaically exposed in our country. This is where we get the first paradox from this interpolation. The European Commission wants Slovenia to nominate candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor as soon as possible, and the opposition to the justice minister in interpretation is clear that in July 2021 it issued a new call for applications after the government has found that the first call has failed because it has not been implemented in accordance with the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Therefore, the opposition, on the one hand, makes it clear to the Minister that it is not in his interest that Slovenia has a European Delegated Prosecutor and, on the other hand, it is clear to him that he has issued a call which has just allowed the appointment process to finally move from a dead point. Let me point out that, during the time of Minister Dikaucic, efforts have been made to find solutions towards the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors in essence, but it is to be expected that today, too, some additional incentives will be followed by the applicants at this point of interpretation. Now allow me, Your Honor, to read you the 71st article of the State Prosecutor's Act. The fourth paragraph states: “The State Prosecutor’s Council, after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General, shall define and draw up a list of three candidates” – emphasis, three candidates – “for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and shall inform the candidates and the Ministry of Justice. [[…]] [[…]] Ministry list of three candidates « – emphasis, list of three candidates » – "transmits the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for an introduction. [[…]] [[…]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit a list of three candidates to the competent institution of the European Union.” And paragraph 5: »The call under this Article shall be considered unsuccessful if the candidates who have not been rejected are not at least three candidates, or if the State Prosecutor's Council finds, on the basis of the nominations received, that it cannot draw up a list of three candidates for the appointment of the European Prosecutor. So, black on white. In fact, the second point of interpretation, according to my assessment and according to the assessment of the SDS Group, is only a variation on topic one, only that these imaginary political motives by the opposition are detected in the so-called “home” state prosecutors. It's a good paradox. During the time of Minister Dikaucič, no proposal for the appointment of state prosecutors has been made and no proposal has been sent to the government. All the candidates that the government has not appointed have been proposed to the government by former Minister Liljana Kozlovic. The Ministry of Justice, also under the leadership of Minister Dikaučuč, leads its tasks in the process of appointing state prosecutors without delay and without delay. The quasi arguments in this interpretation also rain in the work of taking urgent action in the fight against covid-19, which, of course, protects the lives and health of our citizens. The Minister of Justice, as has already been said publicly, has been involved in this interpretation as a member of this government and someone from whom the opposition is shamelessly expected to exceed its legal powers and to intervene in the power of the government and other ministries. The opposition, of course, greatly underestimates our citizens if they believe that citizens will believe in these free interpretation files. Moreover, it will build on the door of their anger because it behaves destructively just at a time when Slovenia was also in a health crisis without a case caused by the new coronavirus pandemic. Back to the facts. The law on communicable diseases is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Health and other ministers can comment on the draft amendments to the law, as prepared by the Minister of Health, in the context of the established procedures. The role of the whole legislative process is therefore clearly drawn up and replaced. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is thus noted that the interpretation in the third point is also substantively unfounded and completely flawed, as it assumes a dangerous precedent under which political responsibility could be exercised entirely apart from the powers for which individual ministers are actually responsible. This point is, in fact, completely pointless, as the Minister of Justice is subject to evidence in the field of prevention of the spread of communicable diseases. Furthermore, the opposition in the interpretation of Marjan Dikaucic, which, according to our assessment, is always a working lawyer, including a specialist in bankruptcy law, is clear that he has applied for a vacant notary post in Žalec, one year before he even became a candidate for the justice minister. According to our assessment, honourable opposition Members, the proponents here must be aware that, in some way, you also inform our citizens that they must not exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights; in this context, this is a constitutionally guaranteed freedom to work. Doesn't Mr. Dikaucič have this free choice in his previous professional life? Let's face it! In this notary episode, Mr Dikaucič, after seeing the opposition, even dared to file a legal remedy. He's still responsible here because he intervened on a legal remedy. But here again you have overlooked that everyone has this right under the constitutional right to judicial protection against decisions of the administrative authorities. What's the problem? With regard to the notariat in Žalec, the opposition continues to dramatically reveal that it has even closed it. It is as if he himself had shut it down, the Minister made it clear that the notary office in Žalec had stopped at the request of the notary, on the date proposed by the notary himself. The notary should, however, know how long the procedures for appointing a new notary may take, and that legal decisions do not change just as they wish without any legal basis. Apparently, he had to be reminded of this by the very Ministry of Justice. The Minister was corrected in this respect. He was completely excluded from the decision-making process on the role of the grieving notary. There can be no doubt about that. And that is why these statements, I quote, “Dikauchič has not already signed a written decision to extend the claims of the notary and, upon appointment as minister, immediately closed the taiji notariat for which he has run for office” is, in fact, even malicious. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we want the citizens there to decide quickly in this matter and that we will also get a notary based in Žalec at this end of Slovenia. Until then, of course, we welcome the decision of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia, which has carried out its task in this part and has verified the possible statement of interest of other notaries, which, in the meantime, could carry out the so-called periodic notary business until the legal capacity of the decision to appoint a new notary in Žalec. As the Minister himself said, from 1 July 2021 this notary archive of the former notary had already taken over a notary from Celje, from the time until the meeting of the Notary City in Žalec. And also this vacant city in Žalec, as it has been said, is already engaged in periodic notary business, and citizens are not so severely deprived of the provision of notary services. As a conclusion of this presentation, according to an old good opposition practice with exposed government officials, somehow by the rule of the cross, their life partners are immediately caught up in their lives, which is, indeed, at least not worthy if they are not already completely silent. In the interpretation, you are now wrongly proposing, unless you have already deliberately stated that the Minister's partner has complained in the tender procedure. But that's simply not true, that's not true, because she withdrew her application in the process. Two completely different concepts. In the SDS Group, we fully agree with Minister Dikaucic that interpellation is full of conflicting perceptions, without or with imaginary arguments, to cities is completely meaningless, and we find that it is not an interpretation of the Minister's work and responsibility at all. In fact, the opposition can only reveal what was said to be the minister of this government and that he even hoped to take responsibility for the demanding department of the Ministry of Justice. Here in the SDS Group we congratulate you on your courage, distinguished minister, and at the same time thank you for your work so far. At the beginning of November, Minister Dikaucič stressed the following: “The social responsible conduct of all authorities, in particular representatives of the people, is an indispensable contribution to increasing confidence in the rule of law.” End of story. In the SDS Group, we would also like the opposition to start acting more responsible and mature in the National Assembly, as their actions, such as today's interpretation, which we consider to be an unrealistic interpretation, make citizens' confidence in the work of the Chamber of Democracy less and, unfortunately, it is drying up. Minister Dikaucič said following the refusal of Minister Kusteceva's interpretation: “On Monday I take over the baton.” Let me conclude that the coalition will also be victorious in this interpeel phase, which means that the interpolation will be rejected. The Minister will continue to perform his ministerial function successfully. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we therefore assess that the interpretation is unfounded, flat-rately substantiated, even the elements of the instigation, and in fact the evidence has nothing to do with the performance of the minister of justice. That is why we will unanimously reject the intervention against Minister Dikaucič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Brane Golubović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! How important it is that the judiciary, the rule of law, the rule of law on this government's list of priorities, this coalition, shows that, regardless of all the serious allegations we have written in the interpretation, the minister remains alone today. No minister, Prime Minister, came to support him at the outset, and there are four MPs or members of the coalition sitting in the Chamber. But this is Slovenia. This is Slovenia, where the rule of law is somewhere below and the personal benefits are above. Building the integrity of society, organization, each individual begins at the top. It starts with the leaders and then passes on to everyone else from above down. Leaders set the example for everyone else, just as parents set the example for children, teachers and teachers for students, students, students, athletes for their fans, directors for their employees, both Members, Ministers, Prime Minister, and the President of the Republic, we set an example for people. It depends on the integrity of each individual and on his action in accordance with moral and legal standards, how strong the rule of law will be, how strong the rule of law will be. But the greatest responsibility, as I said, is still in politics and leaders in society. If the government coalition respected all of this, Marjan Dikaucič would not become Minister of Justice. Of course, someone else wouldn't even become Prime Minister. There's only one reason that would be enough, and it wouldn't take an interpolation to do that. This reason is that Marjan Dikaucič is on trial for the suspicion of a crime of tax evasion and will go to court as a justice minister. This whole thing is really bizarre. A little while ago, the minister would have resigned himself in such a case. Ministers and Members have resigned, let us remember, for minor violations, minor acts or their inappropriate personality characteristics in all mandates since independence. And you don't have to look too far, just remember the government of Marjan Sarca. But in the past governments, ministers had the great majority of honor and courage. They were ethical and moral, they knew how to take responsibility, but above all, they had a personal integrity. Many of the Members and Members of this mandate have in the past met with a similar situation, even for minor reasons, and at that time these Members had no doubt as to what was right and what was wrong. In any previous term - even with the first Janša government, where three ministers have resigned in 2007 - the Minister of Finance would have resigned. Oh, no! Why? Because you just don't understand what integrity is. It is true, however, that at that time the majority of the National Assembly still had integrity, respect for the rule of law and had a face, and asked ministers and government presidents to do so, you hoped that their conduct was not only legal but also ethical, moral and social responsibility. At times, most people in this National Assembly hoped so. It's sad where we came from as a society. And then some of you are still wondering in this house, in the government, and you're even hoping to wonder what's going on with people, not to respect the measures, the government's recommendations. Yeah, they have an example. Even in Minister Dikaucic. Or Minister Visiak, Hoys, Minister Kusteceva, Tonin, Minister of Peace. I'm not talking about the Prime Minister on purpose. With the uncritical election of Marjan Dikaucič as Minister, I said at that time that he should not become a minister because he is not a defender of legality because he is a defender of borders. Because it is not transparent, it is formerly a concealer of facts because it does not promise to strengthen the rule of law, but rather its bankruptcy. Today, five months later, it is obvious that we were right in LMŠ. Marjan Dikaucič also symbolizes everything that is wrong with today’s government because of his history. This government symbolizes impeccability, incompetence, mistrust, willfulness, pride, arrogance, lowering political culture and standards, the belief that the ruling are first-class and that the country is their property, the spoil they can share, symbolizes autocraticism and, if you want, symbolizes kleptocracy. For us in the LMŠ, it is unacceptable where we went as a state, that the Minister may become someone who is already in the police investigation before taking office, and today is being tried before a court in Murski Sobota. For what? For the suspicion of a criminal offence, tax evasion and counterfeiting and destruction of business documents. And he'll defend himself as justice minister. Not to mention his other illegal activities in the publication of a public appeal for a European Delegated Prosecutor, the inadmissibility of appointing state prosecutors, the silence of not naming judges in the National Assembly, the participation in the adoption of regulations which infringe human rights, the financial punishment of the Constitutional and Supreme Court and the Prosecutors, so that their budget has reduced their resources. But of course, the government coalition says that this is not a pressure on the judiciary, the Minister of Justice is silent. But if we are concerned about all this in LMŠ, because we understand how important integrity is and that it depends on integrity, how strong the rule of law will be, it is not Minister Dikaucic's concern, it is not the justice minister's concern, it is not the guardian of the rule of law. He doesn't care. And don't worry about the Prime Minister. If he was worried, he'd do something different. And let there be no mistake, neither do the vice-presidents of the government: Minister Tonin and Minister Pozvalska. Of course, they don't worry, because paying taxes is stupid, and the cops, and the judges, and the prosecutors, they're gonna crash, and it's gonna be just the way it's supposed to be. Do you even know what will be communicated to people today if Marjan Dikauchič remains Minister? To tax evasion in this country is no problem that paying taxes is stupid, that if you commit a crime and are part of a ruling elite, you have the right membership card, you can influence cops, prosecutors, judges or pressure. That's what we tell them, not all of us, most of us in this national council. But in fact, the ruling ones don't worry, they don't worry because they feel untouchable because they've subjected everything to each other. So instead of asking the Prime Minister to take responsibility and resign, whether any coalition party would have the courage and condition the Minister's resignation if he did not leave the government, no, the government has begun to clean up, clean up, remove, remove the political and legal dangers that lie ahead of the minister. In Furs, he is a loyal director, the leading structures in the police have changed, including at the National Investigation Office, and the judiciary is pushed into the manner of Minister Viszak. However, after a year of perseverance and disgrace in Slovenia in Europe, the government gave in to European Delegated Prosecutors and, with legal acrobatics, abolished the unconstitutional and illegal situation which it itself has caused through the help of Minister Dikaucic. By doing so, without any mistake, the government is protecting Minister Dikaucic, removing some obstacles so that it would not happen by accident that some three Members would vote in favour of the interpretation. There's something else. The government has also acknowledged the minister's responsibility to have unlawfully issued an invitation to tender with regard to delegated prosecutors, which, by the way, was also reasoned and advocated by Minister Tonin. His sins were forced by the loss of power, influence, access to public money were also cleared by Minister Dikaucič. After three years of avoiding the payment of a municipal contribution to a building already built, he agreed to pay for it after reporting to the media. Too late. He broke the rules. However, we must not blind ourselves to the fact that there is a great deal of blame for what is happening to us today in the State Assembly, on us, especially on the majority who appoints ministers who elect a Prime Minister, at the same time can also relieve ministers. Unfortunately, most of this is not capable, because of their partisan interests, of some opportunism simply insists on it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! There are 153 days left before the regular elections. At the latest, it will be the end of the government's ownership of the country, the demolition of democracy and human rights brutality. At that time, it will also be time to normalise the situation and correct the damage caused at the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary. It will end with the rule of selective recruitment, police politicisation and anything else to add. Political assault and discrediting of the Constitutional Court and the reduction of the criteria for the appointment of Constitutional Judges will be brought to an end. I'd really like to stress again here for those of you who don't know if you're just being stupid. Unfortunately, there are only two on this right side. The task of the judiciary is to judge in accordance with the Constitution and laws, not to heal and save lives. And when you report to the Constitutional Court for a decision and the Minister of Justice is silent, you ask the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, to make decisions to prepare epidemiological measures. No, colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Court shall decide in accordance with the Constitution and the law whether an act of the Government is in accordance with the law and the law. And the duty of the government, including the guardian of the rule of law sitting behind me, is to make every effort to ensure that government acts are prepared in accordance with the Constitution and other legislation. But, yeah, I know, it's hard. The state is better governed by violations of the Constitution and laws, easier to rule by decrees than decrees, easier to rule by controlling and repressing it even into emergency anti-Korona packages. Part of the Law on Infectious Diseases will be given in the PKP10. The Minister of Justice is silent. In the LMŠ we always oppose this because we are on the side of the rule of law, democracy, power-sharing and human rights and believe in the knowledge society. When adopting legislation, the government is conscious of walking on the edge and is often deliberately transfusing it. That is why government gentlemen and ladies deny, mock the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the judgments of other courts. I'm not going to say that the Minister of Justice is silent, but he is also silent in these cases. The new government where the LMSH will be located will not have such rocks. I can promise you that in this place. In addition — we must not forget — but the press are pushed by the tippers, and if anyone thinks, he punishes himself over his own people. After a good year and a half, government errors are only deepening, they simply do not understand because they do not understand the meaning of the community, the sense of a democratic and legal state, what it means to be a minister, to lead a government. Let me finish. Minister Dikaucič, who in our opinion is only on paper, is actually being led by someone else, is a symptom of this government. That is why we see today's vote in the LMŠ as a vote on the government's dismissal, a vote in which you can define yourself only in favour or against. That is why we will vote in the LMŠ for the discharge of the Minister and for the departure of the Government. However, non-voting means that some, because of their personal interests, fear, are closing their eyes against the government's pressure on the judiciary with divisive extremes and euthanasia of democracy. It's about Noah's politics. Repression 3.0 will end in a maximum of 153 days. We're ready to go to LMSH. I only hope that you will allow the elections and the results. But we're also prepared for this possible act of yours. Nothing in this government should surprise us anymore. And I believe then the Minister of Justice will remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Let me just say, he will first get the word Rudi Medved, followed by Predrag Baković, and before both, he will be given the word of a representative of the candidates, Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What to say with such contentless words by the coalition, and even more so by the minister. In fact, I'm not surprised by the fact that when you don't have any arguments, you just resort to empty political footnotes. The fact that there are only four coalition members sitting in the Chamber right now, I apologize, five, I have forgotten Mr Tank. So much for this support to Minister Dikaucic in all his actions and personality situations in which he is. Nor is it surprising that Mr Dikaucič, in his opening presentation, merely summed up some of the legal provisions that, believe you, Mr Minister, we all know, at least I do. No wonder that it is very specific, I have cited certain articles that you are violating, rejected with some flat-rate sentence which has been repeatedly repeated in a slightly different form, that after its interpretation it is both substantively empty and unfounded. A purely legitimate right, Mr Minister, but for those who may be following today's interpolation, I believe that this kind of work will not be enough. And if I start in the back, at the notary in the Grief. Dear Minister, no one is obvious to you or denies you the freedom to work, even less, no one is denying you the right to complain, so do not play the role of the victim, but let me make a substantive reply to my findings or the applicant's findings in this regard. I have specifically cited section 11 of the Notariat Act, which you have violated, you still violate. Why and how the process has been carried out, I will dissect in more detail, believe me, further, that I will not, at first, throw you with some facts, because I believe it may be too much for now. As for the responsibility you bear as a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to which you constantly forget. In fact, Mr Minister, you are not only a minister, but you are also a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and have full objective responsibility for all the decisions made by your Government, you said in your implementation that you are responsible only for actions under your jurisdiction, i.e. under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Okay, but as it is said, you are not only a minister, you are also a legal member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is in this context that you yourself, in response to interpretation, state that the Ministry of Justice consults other ministries and draws attention to certain problems regarding respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the proposals for regulations. And then you write down that the Ministry of Justice is playing a consultative role. Yes, Mr Minister, I believe we agree, by the logic of the matter, that you are also responsible for the fact that your government, which you are a member, adopts unconstitutional government decisions that unduly interfere with human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, you have even voted in favour of such decisions or if you have not voted in favour, you have not opposed what is considered to be an attachment after the meetings you hold at 11pm. You're saying, I've written down that it's important that we look for the right measure between intervention and limitations. I agree, Minister, of course. But then why didn't you point out this when you were taking all these unconstitutional decisions? This is your duty as Justice Minister. You yourself state that you play a consultative role in respecting and guaranteeing human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly made it very clear that everything is not in accordance with the Constitution and where you have violated the Constitution, Mr Minister, and you, too, as a member of the government. Therefore, the excuse that you are competent only and solely for the Ministry of Justice is very much attracted to hair or, on the one hand, indicates that you do not know the state regime on your part or on the other hand shows that you are avoiding the responsibility that comes with the law and the constitution. It's both unacceptable. In fact, this is not a precedent, as you and colleague Kaloh said in their presentation of the position of the SDS Group. It is certainly not a precedent that the Minister is required to be responsible for decisions taken by him in a college body such as the government. How can this be a precedent when you are legally and legally responsible? You say that the Minister of Justice is the same as the other ministers, but at the same time, as I have already said, you, as Minister of Justice, have a slightly more crucial role to play when it comes to ensuring human rights and freedoms because you play a consultative role. Mr Minister, in order to do what you say in your response to the interpretation, in fact, you must not be silent, you must speak, you must at least be heard if not already heard. And you haven't even been heard, you haven't been to the Justice Committees in our house, where you'd hear, Mr. Minister, whose problems are happening during your term of office. And you weren't on any of these committees. You've just decided to remain silent, and, as it were, that's your legitimate right. However, I am afraid that this is a very obvious negligence in the performance of the minister's office. You're saying we cheated in our own eyes on the interpretation. Minister, with all due respect, we are not the ones who deceive, but you are the ones who deceive or distort the facts. You are saying that there is nothing like this, I am now summarizing that you will not say that I quote you, you are saying that there is nothing to say that we have not yet appointed European Delegated Prosecutors, that the work is being carried out or that such crimes, which should be taken care of by two European Delegated Prosecutors, are also being prosecuted under Slovenian legislation and that this is somehow guaranteed by the European Prosecutor that we have. Let me enlighten you, Mr. Secretary. Our European Prosecutor, Mr Brezigar, said that we still do not have two European Delegated Prosecutors today that this fact makes his work extremely difficult. It's amazing. He says: "We cannot be effective in Slovenia without delegated prosecutors. The Delegated Prosecutors are the key to the operational work of our Prosecutor's Office." Our Prosecutor's Office means the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And if we do not have the two European prosecutors appointed, the work of the European Prosecutor under the European Public Prosecutor's Office is also ineffective. This is what the European Prosecutor Mr Brezigar himself claims. It points out that such cases are when he takes over the management of these cases, and says that even in Slovenia they have already received many cases, and the matter is such that they have had to adapt a number of procedural provisions for his operation. Mr Brezigar here points out that this is exceptional. This is an exception, and this is not the case for us to be practically late for six months now and to make the work of the European Prosecutor more difficult. That would be to understand if you're late for a day, two, a week, not half a year. And he also says, if you don't know, Mr Minister, that there are surprisingly many cases of corruption, corruption, that is, taking and accepting bribes in connection with the allocation of European funds. In any case, they also observe the link between money laundering and criminal associations, i.e. organised crime in relation to the European budget funds, for which European Delegated Prosecutors are responsible. Therefore, Mr Minister, do not relativise the fact that Slovenia still does not have two European Delegated Prosecutors today, because this is important. It doesn't matter. It's very important. And you're relativizing this fact by saying there's nothing wrong with it. You're such a justice minister. As regards the procedure by which the two delegated European Prosecutors should be appointed, I will say more and also demarcate on the basis of the legal facts the position presented by Mr Kaloh on behalf of the SDS Group, namely the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Regulation of the European Union, are very clear and do not allow any legal acrobatics in the sense of temporary notice or provisional appointment. As I said in the introductory explanation, it is only and only another of your legal hooligan action, when you are trying in fact to warn all of us who have warned you of the illegal and illegal conduct of this government, including you, Mr Minister, when you try to know us, including the citizens to rub sand in our eyes, czech, because it is not so important, let us give it now temporarily, and then we will do something, because our past actions in fact, I don't know, were nothing very important, but now we have this, this temporary appointment. On the other hand, Mr Minister, when you have temporarily become aware of the choice of these two candidates proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council, you acknowledge, for the first time, that the candidates have been expertly qualified and qualified to have been elected by the State Prosecutor's Council in a lawful manner, on a procedural basis, while at the same time acknowledging that you have been the ones who have been deceiving, stalling, unjustifiably delaying our country's procedures and leading the Republic of Slovenia into a very uncomfortable, ungrateful and non-binding position. They threatened us with a lawsuit, a fine, because you didn't do your duty. And this is extremely inappropriate for the Justice Minister, extremely inappropriate. If I return to this responsibility as a justice minister and also as a member of the government, the honourable Minister, when the Government decides not to carry out the simple judgement of the Administrative Court, and when the justice minister who is a defender of the judiciary in that country is quieter, even more so, it agrees with this, then this is an extremely unacceptable and inappropriate act not to use any more of the harsh terms that you would otherwise have crossed. Such conduct is not worthy of the Minister of Justice. Pika. You do not realize or respect the hierarchy of legal acts, do not respect the fact that the law is above the government regulation, do not respect the fact that human rights and freedoms can be affected exclusively and only by law, and do not respect the judgments of Slovenian courts when this is absolutely necessary and proportionate. Last but not least, I mentioned earlier, you don't even respect this house where you are sitting today, the National Assembly, because at the presentation, at the hearing, when you were a ministerial candidate, you silenced the Members' key facts. Members who have decided whether you are fit for the function you are performing today or not, have been silenced by deliberately important facts. If this is no reason to exercise political responsibility, then I don't know what it is. Because the Minister must also be morally and ethically indisputable. Chief Justice Minister. If you look over the border, it is suspected of corruption, not of a crime or a potential crime, but suspected of corruption, that Austrian Chancellor Kurz resigned. You are burdened by the suspicion of the crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents sitting here as I am nothing, telling you nothing, and telling you that when we give you very substantial, very exact evidence, you are saying that we are abusing the interpretation and that we are putting it against you just because you are the minister of this government. I beg of you, Your Honor! Now that can mean whether you haven't read or listened to me before, because if you did, I believe that as a lawyer you would understand all these allegations and legal violations. However, if you do not hear and understand this on purpose, I have already said that this is an indicator of your political hygiene and culture, which shows the degree of political responsibility. If I comment very briefly on this, I will go further and more precisely on the individual points of interpretation, Mr Minister, but if I comment very briefly on the views of the groups of Members, I am surprised that the NSI Group has only applied for and only for the entire day of 5 minutes. Legitimate, completely, but at the same time, Mr. Dikauchič, also very fair - isn't it? The eyewitnesses say in New Slovenia that the perceptions of interpretation must refer to a specific infringement and that the suspicion of the infringement must be serious and justified. I couldn't agree more. I fully agree with this position because, in fact, the evidence we are presenting to you, Mr Dikaucič, is indeed accurately referring to a specific infringement. I have already said Article 11 of the Notariat Act to the notary, to the state prosecutors and to the European Delegated Prosecutors, to the violation of the State Prosecutor's Act and the Regulation of the European Union. Finally, the Government Act, if I am not mistaken, in Article 14, gives you the opportunity to speak when something is not lawful and right or in accordance with the legitimate decision of the government - no possibility, the duty gives you this provision, and your suspension is also a violation of this provision because you are silent. And finally, the suspicion of a violation must be serious and justified. Yeah, sure. How could it be unrealistic that we have been late for six months by appointing European Delegated Prosecutors?How is it not serious that the European Commission is threatening us with a lawsuit and a fine? How is it not serious that the funds for drawing are also at risk because we do not respect the rule of law because we do not appoint European Delegated Prosecutors, because we are in breach of the European Union regulation, which I believe we both know is a binding act? How are these violations not sufficiently serious and justified? I think they are. And here I agree with my distinguished colleagues from New Slovenia. In defence of Minister Dikaucič, the representative of the SMC Group was very inconclusive, if I express myself a little by law. It says that the fact that the two same prosecutors who applied in the first invitation to tender at the same time applied for a second invitation to tender that this fact suggests that this second invitation was not illegal, because otherwise they would not have applied for it. Yes, please, come on! It's the same as saying that if you're involved in some criminal or pre-trial procedure as an accused, you're involved, you're going to be treated, you're carrying out evidence, you're confessing, and so on, and your colleague at SMC would say if, yes, because he's already guilty because he's involved. No, it's not that simple. What is left of the two state prosecutors who have been waiting for more than six months to inform the government of their choice? Then Minister Dikaucič comes and announces a new invitation to tender. What else do they have to apply for this invitation? With this government, with you, Mr. Minister, you really don't know what the next step is, where you will be violating the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia next. Citizens under your government are forced because of your violations and the lack of respect for the Constitution and the constitutional order to file complaints of criminal offences concerning your decisions. And so these two prosecutors were forced to re-approach this illegal call. It's as simple as that. I was very surprised when the honourable Mr Verbic provided the legal content that Mr Dikaucic's Minister of Justice had succeeded in preparing a justice ministry in this short time. Great! But once again, Mr. Minister, there were no Justice Committees during your ministry - there were nine - you were gone. By the way, all the legal content mentioned by counterpart Verbič is being addressed and adopted by the Committee on Justice. I don't know if you know that because you're not there. But I'm very sorry, I'm not going to say it, but I'm surprised when my colleague Verbič came in with a compliment or I don't know what Minister Dikaucic was doing to set up the Children's House. My colleague Verbich, I think that was incorrect. When we discussed the legal proposal that formally regulates the House for Children, former Minister Liljana Kozlovic took part in the committee and, if I am not mistaken, Mr Secretary of State, Minister Dikaucic has not yet been present. Not on such successful projects as the Children's House, which is the fruit of the previous two or three governments even, do not attach the plaque to the Minister of Justice, Mr Dikaucic, who was nowhere at the time. Don't brag about other people's success, because if it's the only defense you can overcome, it's sad. It's even sadder than it's sad. Dear colleague Kaloh of the SDS, in fact, spoke very widely about our efforts to undermine the government being malicious when he represented the position of his parliamentary group, saying that our efforts to undermine the government are malicious, that with this interpretation we are playing a game without borders against Minister Dikaucic and that the obviouss are unrelated to his work, is said to be the work of the minister. I can only answer these kind of leaflets in a way that, Mr Kaloh, if you have written your own position, I suggest that you look at or read the exact text of the interpretation that we have submitted, because there you will see that these are concrete and precise indications. I would also suggest that you read a magnetogram of my opening act, where I also specified the violations of Minister Dikaucic. However, with regard to the application of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the infamous 71st and so forth, of course the application of the Regulation of the European Union, which defines the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I will, my colleague Kaloh, give you a more detailed account of what this is really about or what these provisions, which are very exact, are regulated in their normative sense. It will be good for the Minister to listen too, because I think he also misuses the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and works with it to the detriment of Slovenia. However, I agree or welcome one statement made by my colleague Kaloh in his position. He said that Minister Dikaucič had not submitted any proposals for the appointment of a state prosecutor during his term of office. Yes, indeed, Minister Dikaucič is not active in this area, even though we have a huge flaw in the role of state prosecutors, despite the fact that the Attorney General, at one of the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice, at which you were not present, Mr. Minister, stressed that he urged the government representatives to provide the full number of seats of state prosecutors. True, your inactivity here is obvious. At the same time, you are responsible for the fact that for more than a year specific prosecutors have not been appointed or promoted. Since you are not only a minister again, you are also a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and your duty to publish the invitation to tender does not end. You have full objective responsibility for the Government usurping the State Prosecutor's Office in a way that selectively after political affiliation decides who gets the prosecutor's mandate and who doesn't. You're responsible for this, Mr. Secretary. It is extremely dangerous for you to do so, Mr. Minister, when you submit to an independent, independent State Attorney's Office in this way. So many introductorys. But I am really looking forward to today's debate. I see that on the side of the coalition there will not be much talk, but nothing, therefore, will our substantive and precise arguments come so much more to the fore and to the ears.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Rudy Medved has the word and, as I said before, Predrag Baković. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. In the first sentence of his statement, the minister put himself in the role of the victim. If the school minister said last Friday that the interpretation had hit her because she was a woman, today the justice minister found that the interpretation had hit him because he was a minister. Yeah, sure, who should I be? Interpellation is intended to call for the responsibility of ministers, ministers or the entire government. But he added that because the minister is in this government. Yes, of course, because we have no one else, only this government. But it is true that it would be very difficult for a minister to be in any other government than this government. This interpolation showed how much the minister assessed his position. Whether it's 30 grand or 20 grand, I don't know, depending on how much the municipal contribution was charged to him — that municipal contribution that the congregation of Šentjur refused to pay. But he was building. He did not want to pay it until recently he heard clear squabbles from these sentinel groups from the Desus Group so that perhaps this failure to pay the municipal contribution could take the minister away because the delegation would deny him support. In order to allow the municipal contribution to be carried out by the Justice Minister, we have not yet had such a situation in the past of the political history of the country. And we can conclude, and this is the positive side of this interpolation, that if it were not, the congregation of Šentjur would probably have waited a long time for this money if nothing had moved for more than two years, and then suddenly. It's really one of the minister's clear blind maneuvers. To make the ministerial chair as valuable as the municipal contribution to the house in the congregation of Šentjur. That's ridiculous. However today's vote will turn, one thing is for sure, the Municipality of Šentjur has received a paid municipal contribution. It is likely that those who have submitted this interpretation to us in the congregation of Šentjur are not paying so little money. But that the minister would want to pay for his support in such a banal way, it's unlikely, but it happened. That's exactly what happened. Why can something like this happen in Slovenia? Yeah, because you can. Since the standards for the most responsible functions in this country are not reliable after the government of Janez Janša. We therefore point out in the LMŠ that Marjan Dikaucič, Minister of Justice, should never have become a minister because he came into this government with a huge backpack, such that he should not have come through the door of the justice ministry. At least as far as justice is concerned, apparently a lot will go into court in the future. It is true, however, that in the government of Janez Janša or in this coalition with supporters, if the prosecution against Marjan Dikaucič has filed an application for judicial investigation for tax evasion. Who cares about this government? The Minister of Justice, the First Ombudsman of the Law, and against him a request for judicial investigation for tax evasion has been filed. And for a crime of tax evasion, according to our legislation, there is no prosecution of tax debtors with some banal amounts, no prosecution of them because of the fines. We are talking about a crime when tax evasion exceeds 50 average wages per employee in the Republic of Slovenia. And the pre-trial procedure in this case is concluded, there will be no confusion, the forecasting procedure is completed and a request for a judicial investigation is made, i.e. for a judicial investigation for a major asset benefit. Nothing. In the last 30 years, ministers have resigned in Slovenia, for very different reasons, although it is true that we are going to look at the history of these derogations, but no one has had to give up the tax evasion, and there was no such case. But we have had cases if we just look back not far in the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. For example, the reasons why Minister Marko Bandelli resigned because he was rudely communicating with one or more mayoral candidates on Facebook. This was the standard, and you will probably remember a colleague in the SDS and in the NS, what a shout and scream you then launched, how inconceivably unacceptable his action was and that he must be removed immediately. At the time, the Minister resigned because of the standards in force in this country, because of the standards, but from today's perspective, this story is presented in the context of the current government, and this story is read as Pavlikh's great-grandmother. We're so far away. I'm just wondering if you knew he was in the SDS, NSI, and the coalition's supporters before the minister was confirmed. I'm just curious. In a tax evasion investigation, maybe not for some traffic violation. Minister, I don't know if that was worth telling them at the time, if not everyone in the National Assembly or the Slovenian public, because you say you're a legalist; a legalist who respects the laws may show that you've come into conflict with the law, the Minister of Justice. Why is there a man in Slovenia as a justice minister who is suspected of tax evasion and document fraud? That's the question. Why? Because it's easy. Because who in this government cares? His colleague in the government, Vizjak, says that paying taxes is stupid, the president of SMC Restoršek, who has brought this minister and is himself in a criminal investigation, says that the minister enjoys his full support and trust, and apparently also enjoys the support of Prime Minister Janez Janša. And we ask ourselves in all these facts why he enjoys the support of Prime Minister Janez Janša. In view of what has been seen so far because it is obedient and silent, as if it were a foreign observer, it has always helped to keep both prosecutors away from the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That prosecutor you so resented Janez Janša for investigating his real estate business that he put his personal frustration before the state. And why is he doing that? Because you can. As the European Prosecutor called and called, the European Commission called and called, everyone was merely calling and calling, and this authority could be mocked peacefully by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. From the institution whose first task is to watch over the use of European funds, prevent abuse, fraud. The Prosecutor's Office began working in July this year, an important information, in July this year and at the very beginning has shown that it can be extremely effective. That's what the Croatian case is about. The former Minister has been detained recently for fraud with European money. Now this, almost a year long saga about European Delegated Prosecutors has suddenly spread out and we should believe in coincidences. If it really got messy, that's also, of course, a big question if it really got messy. Because, after the legal exercise, it was nothing but a blockade on the appointment of these two prosecutors and the disgrace of Slovenia before Europe. Then the government finds out we're late at night. Good morning! And it's time to get to know her, because it's in her jurisdiction to get to know her candidacy. When did this happen? When did this happen? Yeah, just before the interpolation! Unusual. It's unusual, really. It's not a coincidence, though. So there had to be an interpretation of the Minister of Justice that the story of European Delegated Prosecutors began to unravel. We can now imagine that if we had submitted it earlier, but perhaps we would have completed this disgrace of Slovenia before Europe earlier. But what did they write down, what did they write in the justification? Slovenia is late to submit a proposal for candidates. This was recorded in the justification. As if we had all slept together for one year, that no one has any idea what was going on, and for more than half a year, the government has been persecuted by the European institutions and by the opposition's domestic institutions. The Justice Minister resigned, and everything was like a bob against a wall and then this sudden enlightenment. Sudden lighting. And what else do they write? That's funny. Because you would be late — because you would be late! – may cause significant damage to Slovenia. Look! Yeah, well, that's too bad. The damage has long been caused, a major damage which has distorted the credibility of Slovenia, the reputation of Slovenia and which is particularly damaging because it has been the impression that the government in Slovenia has no interest in investigating possible damage to the use of European funds. That was the impression. I say that everything has probably accelerated the interpolation or was that trigger, unless the government knows more than we do and that the punishment of Slovenia may have been possible by withdrawing European funds due to delay. We don't know that at this point, but there was a lot of gossip about it in the Brussels corridors. One thing is certain, however, I doubt that this government, without any additional pressure, would admit itself to doing harm because here it has now admitted that the damage it has caused itself is being done. After what is most grotesque, what the President of New Slovenia wrote is Tonin at the same time. What did he write down? Another story has been solved, around which there were many storms. Who's making a fool out of people here? That's a real shame she doesn't have money! In fact, the government created problems and deepened them for months and months, but now they are bragging about solving the problem just before the interpolation. Done and saved. Sure. This is according to the known one that the problems are to save them, but if they are not, we make them so that we can save them. That's really worth all the praise. You know, it's like we burned the house down and waited for it to burn, and then we'd rush with a water canopy to the fire and say, well, it's a good thing we came because the damage would be even worse. Why do I doubt that this story with the European Prosecutor's Delegated has in fact spread out? I don't believe she got involved because they invented this temporaryity that's nowhere to be found. This is once again a unique person who grew up in the head, I don't know who, the provisional term of both prosecutors. What is this temporaryity, what is it now? Until when, until interpolation or the day after interpolation? And then the President of the Government, as the generator of this problem with the prosecutors, will trigger a new conflict when he tries to replace this one, most likely the appointed prosecutor. But there may be something else, and this is more for the local public and for the believers of the SDS party, that this temporaryity can only be an appropriate excuse not to give up the impression that John Janša has given up before Europe, because of course this could also be seen in a way that God does not give, but John Janš does not give up in front of Europe. Now, what is the role of the Justice Minister in this? The Justice Minister has always wanted nothing to do with his role being nothing and he sat quietly in the corner after coming to the government and hoped that he would pass through this cup and he avoided that he should not affect the judicial proceedings, that he was not competent to assess; but that there was nothing to evaluate here. What was there to judge? Your task, Minister, is to carry out a procedure that has been in full compliance with the law since the first moment. You still haven't managed to justify why this procedure was not in accordance with the law. Not yet. And if you're a legalist who respects the laws, that's what you said at the hearing, and then more than once, you'd go to the side of the marriage. A legalist who respects the law takes the side of the law instead of assisting the whims of the President of the Government, because what else was it, in fact, with these two prosecutors as one of the great whims of the President of the Government. But you didn't do it, and you were more or less passive, obedient, that's probably how ministers in this government are expected. Among other things, you have said this several times and also written in response to the interpretation that it is not the duty of the Minister to judge the legality of government decisions. That's what the Justice Minister wrote down. Yeah, that's for anals, that's really legendary! Yes, of course he's in charge, under the authority of every minister, minister. It is the duty of the minister to put himself on the brink of illegal government decisions. These are also his decisions, the legalist, because they are also his decisions. Minister, you are part of this government. I mean, how does it even occur to you to say that this is not in your jurisdiction? In front of you was the minister, who for too long had been silent, and then everyone was actually making fun of her, but at some point she did exactly what you say is not under the authority of the minister. She estimated that the government she was part of was working illegally. That's what she estimated, that's what she estimated. Was it that she assessed it illegally by your own? And she couldn't prove it to the government, and she gave up. What you're saying is a classic flight away from responsibility, passive monitoring of what the Prime Minister is doing. And that's not legalism, Minister, that's not legalism. Do you know what that is? Purely ordinary conformism, it is the acceptance of a condition due to personal comfort and benefit, and it is the abandonment of duty. You are therefore very much responsible for all the consequences of unlawfully blocking the appointment of European prosecutors, and are very co-responsible. In the long term, however, these consequences will be measurable, not only because of Slovenia's integrity and reputation, but also because of money, they will be measurable in the long term due to delays in investigating possible abuses of the use of European money. You have to be aware of that, too. And the Minister, just recently, while you knew that this government did not intend to block the appointment of European prosecutors, because this enlightenment happened last week, you were deceiving the European Parliament as early as September 1st, how Slovenia is working towards the full establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as possible. It's a complete delusion! And then you replied to the criticisms of the European Members that it was in the interests of the Ministry that the procedure should be completed as soon as possible. Oh, run! You admit that you are responsible for the procedure, but you cannot be just an external observer of what the government is doing, by the way, which you are a member of. And in all of this, you've forgotten something about this statement: the interest of the state. It is not the interests of the justice ministry, the interest of the state, of the citizens of this country that this process be concluded. And the Ministry is the one who has to pursue this interest, which is true. What's the matter with Of course he's not. Of course he's not. Although the ultimate objective of this prosecutorial saga has been very clear from the beginning. Because in these places, we would like to get the prosecutor, at all costs, at the discretion of the governing policy, and this must be said directly. That's what you have to say directly. If only these two had been enough, even two of them would have had this problem long ago, and this objective has not yet been achieved. That is why there is a talk about a temporary appointment, and that is why there is a talk about the temporaryity of appointment. Let's just say it once as it really is. And you did not, Minister, act in the interest of the citizens and not protect the principle of legality. And you weren't the guardian of the rule of law, just a loyal executor of the will of the Prime Minister. That is why we can now look forward to new conflicts between Janez Janša and the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because we know too well the functioning of this government under the tactics of the SDS party. Nothing's been achieved until everything's been achieved. And not everything was achieved here. But there's something to admit, Minister Dikauccich. Otherwise, in this place, the Minister of Justice has justifiably earned an interpretation, but you are reluctant and ignorant, and that was certainly reckless and ignorant, causing a shift on the way to the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, even if it is temporary. And that the paradox is even greater, your predecessor has stepped down because she has not seen an exit from the blockade of the appointment of prosecutors, and you may be relieved of your functions, even though the Prime Minister of the Government has ruled that he may save you from the worst with this hypnotic deblockation. That is precisely why this blockade is temporary, because tomorrow everything can be different with this government. Even if the President of the Government has introduced himself to the candidate for a European Delegated Prosecutor, he may lose his memory tomorrow. And this won't be the first time, just remember the recent hearing before the commission of inquiry. But for the first time in history, this is the first time in history that there is a man in a ministerial position as a justice minister who is suspected of tax evasion. This is an undeniable fact. Suspected by the completion of the pre-trial procedure and by the prosecution's request for a judicial investigation. But that's the situation. Such a minister runs the justice department. And if what has been listed today and what has so far been known to the public, and even in today's debates, we have not yet touched everything that flies from this minister's vast and full backpack, but what we have heard so far is, of course, enough for some normal level of political culture and democracy to vote against the minister with no confidence, because he alone has no sense of doing anything wrong. He feels sorry for himself because he's a minister. And it is also a statement for the anals, of course, but in any case we expect the vote today to show that in such a place the majority in the National Assembly does not want to see Marjan Dikaucič as the justice minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković has the word, and Maša Kociper will get it. And I'm also asking for a sustainable atmosphere in the hall, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	President, thank you so much for your word. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I personally saw the Minister of Justice, Mr. Dikaucic, for the first time. 6. at the emergency meeting of the Justice Committee, where he presented himself to us at the hearing and then with the exception of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly 15. 6. When he was confirmed as Minister, and of course today, I did not see him in the middle. To date we have had something or I will say quite a few meetings of the Justice Committee, where we have dealt with many important things, but the Minister has not come to any meeting. He sent the secretary of state, who is more or less, I'll say, I went to the crane for him and he actually felt sorry for me a few times. And I do not believe, Mr Minister, that you have never once had time to come to the board to explain some things and to hear us who have always been alerted to some mistakes and some stupidity or the illegality of this government and of course of your ministry. In your presentation at the hearing, I have already stressed that if the Minister or Minister of any government and any source resigns because of disagreement with any measure of the current government – here in this case the resignation was due to repetition, i.e. the Minister, for the reason that the re-election procedure for appointing delegated European prosecutors – any new candidate who steps or tries to enter this place under the same government and with the same position falls immediately under the suspicion of improbability or partiality. Especially because what Minister Kozlovič objected to also happened. And after your appointment, this was also happening further. It was not the case that anyone would replace a predecessor who resigned for some minor reasons or something that did not affect or threaten the existence of a rule of law, in this case it was a matter of principle of the withdrawal of the predecessor because the Government directly intervened in the independence and autonomy of the prosecution, since it did not, after all, want to be informed of the chosen prosecutors who would occupy the post of European Delegated Prosecutor. Thus, of course, your appointment at the outset has raised doubts in many that it will continue with some measures, or I will say that it will follow blindly the Government's actions and, finally, follow measures that will help to destroy justice. As can be seen today, suspicion was justified. In a way, you have proven that you do not care about the rule of law and that you do not care about democracy and, in fact, just somehow blindly endorse the unconstitutional and illegal measures taken by this government. In particular, it is disputed that you are in some criminal proceedings and therefore should not be a minister at all. There's a court case against you because of a tax evasion or a forged or destroyed document, and I don't know right now, and if the job, I'm going to say, cleaners at the police station require impunity or confirmation that they're not in criminal proceedings, it would, say, be all the more necessary for a minister. Oh, no! This is not the case for this minister now, but there are several responsible places in this government in various departments that have been designated persons who have been or have been in different criminal proceedings. Of course, that's true in your case. The Ministry of Justice is headed by a person who, according to the prosecution's findings, is involved in some business with straw companies that have damaged the state budget by approximately €52 000, if I recall correctly, and for 200 000 euros, the state remains a debt carrier that you led before the bankruptcy. All this was said at the hearing at the time. In fact, the Minister of Justice should be an example to all citizens and citizens. This should be a person with a high political culture and high ethical standards, legally intact, i.e. someone who enjoys dignity and respect in society. Today, we will also hear a lot about this — and we have already heard — unpaid municipal contributions and so on. This is not just about you being under some reasonable suspicion of criminal service. It is also or, above all, how, under your leadership, a saga about not naming European Delegated Prosecutors has been drawn up until recently. You even issued a new illegal call for candidates and later rejected Mrs Frank Eller and Mr Ostir's recommitment to a new call. However, the Government has now adopted this decision on appointment, but the two candidates or prosecutors, who are proposed as European Delegated Prosecutors, are appointed – but temporarily. However, the problem here is not just the appointment of these two European Delegated Prosecutors, although the appointment of other Prosecutors does not run as it should. In a way or I'll say you're actively cooperating and you've participated, of course, in the erosion of the rule of law and you're part of a team that doesn't have a rule of law agenda. In fact, if I say it a little differently, you are part of a team that is trying or perhaps in the past being “crushed eggs” to disobedient judges. We should be the first defender of justice, the defender of the constitution, the laws, we should stand for respect for judicial decisions. However, you are participating in a team that causes erosion or decommissioning of the rule of law, and the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is collapsing. So if you are not a defender of the Constitution, of the laws, and if you do not respect judicial decisions yourself, the question arises in itself, whose defender you are. Of course, today we will hear something different from the members of the coalition. Perhaps not, as I can see from the timeline here, colleagues from Nova Slovenije have reported only five minutes of debate; this is also, in itself, quite eloquently, a eloquent gesture. But we will probably hear how good the Minister is, how loyal, diligent, and consistent he is, and so on. I wish, and I hope, that I will not now be in some fervor with the exuberance of some coalition MP hearing comparisons that Mr Minister is actually some modern Solon or, God forbid, Franz Joseph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper has the word and will be discussed by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I'm going to start with the surprise that he is a candidate or not, I was going to say that the Minister of Justice allowed himself, in his position on today's interpretation, to teach Members what interpretation is, and then, from some vehement point of view, he wondered whether he was being intertwined because he respected the Constitution and the laws. I mean, this is really so absurd where we came from in this country, it's crazy. And if you don't see from your function that you're not a defender of constitutionality and legality, but you might think you are, then you really don't have any help. Personally, for me, the government itself or a country does not respect the laws it writes is the worst thing that can happen. Because how are you going to expect this from the citizens and how else can you lead and manage politics, the country, the government, if you don't respect the laws you write, the laws that take care of order in society, for some predictability of action, for some legal framework, so that we don't fight, so that there is no war – if you don't respect them, then where is the limit? And this government has twice violated the law directly; once with the STA and once with the Delegated Prosecutors. And this failure to respect its own legislation by the Government has also occurred to Brussels, and there it throws an extremely bad light on our country. He listed us as troublesome countries; countries where the rule of law is not respected and so on – and you are asking yourself here out loud whether you respect the law too much and are therefore intertwined! In the case of these two Delegated Prosecutors, if I touch this first. Of course, as colleague Baković said: If someone resigns, if your predecessor, a minister resigns because of disagreement with some conduct, then the conduct of her successor is assessed first and especially after that. And all the exercises, yours and your governments, on this subject are totally meaningless, because for European prosecutors, the regulation explicitly requires a list of three candidates, that is true, with the Delegated Prosecutors, and this is what we are talking about, not. He's not asking. I don't know if the members of the government know that, but they don't. It is therefore unacceptable for me not to familiarise myself in a clear procedure with the two proposed, under the proper procedure proposed by the prosecutors and send them forward and thereby block the functioning of an important European institution. The European institutions, which they set out to share European money in all countries in the European Union for shovels, check whether European funds are being used legally and efficiently. And this institution can't start working because we haven't properly appointed these Delegated Prosecutors in due time. And now this exercise with a temporary prosecutor, with some institute that doesn't even exist again, is again a mockery of the existing constitution and laws, so don't ask yourself if you're too much of a defender of the constitution and the law – you're not. You didn't! And I'm going to find out more cases about why you didn't, but if I'm going to start with these Delegated Prosecutors, I'm just going to say one more thing. First time. When your predecessor resigns because he disagrees, you come to the hearing and plead that you do not have a political position on what the courts decide. No one asked you how the court would decide, or prejudge the court’s decision, or what did you think the court should decide? We asked you how you would politically position yourself on this political issue – you did not want to answer. After that, the Government goes to a new call without waiting for the decision of the Administrative Court and when the Administrative Court finds that the decision of the Government was illegal, that it was without sound grounds and without justification, it even states that the decision of the Court cannot be respected because the invitation to tender has been revoked and a new invitation to tender has commenced. So, Your Honor, you may even be right, but we can no longer respect this because this invitation is no longer, but it is a new invitation – I repeat to people that they will understand. And then, of course, this Delegated Prosecutor is duly applied to this new call, but beware now, and now the Minister of Justice, this defender of constitutionality and legality, as he himself has said, is rejecting their application because the previous call has not yet been completed. Who are you making a fool of? All of this is seen in the European Union there by some people who get to know the law. Some say that there is no invitation to tender, so the court's judgment is not possible, and the minister says, "I'll throw away your roles because there's no other invitation to tender because it's the first invitation to tender." I think so! Understand who can. Minister Dikauchič, I'm sorry, I'm very reluctant to be so personal, but your appointment is really a sign of where we came from in this country. In order to appoint one minister as a completely incompetent person, without professional competence in this field, without some leadership experience, without some references that would at least indicate that she could lead and fail — nothing! At the beginning of this country, we had experts who were experts in the field where they led the ministry, and they also had leadership experience and some reputation. Then, in time, they did not need to be experts anymore, this was the era of Karl Erjavac, who could lead all ministries; in short, it is important that he has leadership experience, that he can lead people, which I can even partially agree that it is an essential task for the minister to coordinate and lead the work of the people in the ministry, and that he must have some political power and the "background" that gives him this political authority. There's nothing more to do with you now. We got a minister for whom we couldn't even find out where he was working because he didn't want to do an ad to the lawyer's office – watch out – they probably didn't want that kind of ad; otherwise, I can't imagine. We also couldn't find out what she was doing in this lawyer's office, whether she was a lawyer, whether she was a candidate, whether she was an intern, or if there was a secretary in this office, or if she was carrying, I don't know, lunch and making coffee. It is you, not us – why am I saying "we"? That's what the coalition called the minister. A man who does not have the names of any references, no professional references, no leadership experience, no political experience, nothing, nothing, became Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Justice. Why? Because he was obviously the only candidate who was willing to listen to what the Government told the Delegated Prosecutors and the rest of the orders. The fact that you haven't been in the National Assembly since then at any session, that the Secretary of State has always had to defend these crazy proposals coming in between, let's say, about the amendment of the Penal Code and so on, shows that you yourself are aware that you are not up to this function because you are probably sick — I understand you — is sick of coming and facing Members and defending one thing you don't know. But I don't feel sorry for you, you know, Minister, because we should think about that before you go to this function. So the letter, did I really, given what I was doing there, run strangely by some straw companies and that with problems, I hope to become Minister of the Republic of Slovenia? Is that what I'm hoping for? I wanted to be notary, one of the notaries, I don't know how many we have, but I didn't meet the professional conditions, and I'm hoping to become Minister of Justice. That's why I don't feel sorry for you because we're attacking you here today and we're disgusted with this kind of action. Where did we come from? The whole government, too. What are we going to do about this country with such people in office? Then he comes in here and sends us his brains and reads us what an interpolation is. I don't know if it's in his jurisdiction why we're interpreting him today. Do you know how many ministers have already resigned in this country or have been intertwined for such things as, for example, what has already happened, I don't know if I will remember – that the driver was driving an instrument from a minister who had a lecture at a music school this afternoon. That was controversial! Or that one minister — we will never know, and I think he was, then even forgiven — had a mobile phone over one worker. But this is written down, this is within the scope of jurisdiction? Does it mean that the minister is completely incompetent or that he's making phone calls on employees and you can't interpret it? Watch out. But that's not because only if something's doing something wrong, which isn't under his department's jurisdiction. Give me a break! Here, too, you can see that you are completely run out. Incompetent person in an important place. The guardian of the legal system, the guardian of democracy, the guardian of the Constitution – a person who has not received any other service and has therefore become minister. It's terrible that you have to listen to this, but why did you go to the minister, really? And that before that, of course, talked to a couple of major experts from you, who, of course, could not put themselves in a position other than that the government had acted wrong because it was. If it's white, you can't say it's black if you stand on your head. That's why a couple of candidates dropped out, just shows what they were looking for. What has been happening lately in the field of the rule of law, I have recently used one illustration that seems so real to me that I will repeat it again, not just the rule of law, democracy in our country. It all reminds me of that tower that kids lay out of these wooden sticks, and then you pull out the sticks until this tower collapses. A stick at a time. He's been standing there for a while. He's going down in the end. And you're pulling important sticks out here, important. Because the framework of some modern society has not forced, there is no money, there is no police, and so on, the framework of some modern, democratic society is a legal framework that establishes order in society and normal functioning. The fact that it was not the last time that two Supreme Judges were appointed by the Council of Justice were appointed because one judge once in one trial was a member of a Senate that ruled on the expulsion of a judge in one case from Kangler – did you hear anything? Have you heard from him? Now it will be for the specific decisions of individual judges, not even its own, it was a collective decision on a certain exclusion. You have to think, Kangler had 21 criminal proceedings, in one of which one of them demanded an expulsion. That's right. I'm really pissed off by this defense of yours and this one of yours. It is not easy for you, I think, this must be a serious stress for you, but you simply do not have the integrity to be able to do this place, this work and this function as it should be. And, of course, I will vote in favour of your resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, in the opening speech of the Minister of Justice, we have heard quite a few things: that today it will be an attack on him and that he will have to listen to some low-level things and that I know what else. Minister, before a man becomes a minister, one thing has to get used to. You know that river: if the cook can't handle the heat, he can't work in the kitchen. The chair, which is hot and on which you are seated, obviously you have a lot of air conditioning and a refrigerator at the same time so that you can even sit on that chair. At the same time, at the very beginning, you mentioned that you expected to have at least 100 days of peace when you were acting as minister. Now I don't know how much you know about unwritten game rules. While this is not recorded in any law or in any of the rules of procedure, this is true for the government, not for the minister. But this government came up with its time before the outbreak before, I'll say, years ago, when you didn't even know you were ever going to be a minister. So expecting the National Assembly to have a hundred days of peace is just ridiculous. And this is one way, I will say, a very large lack of knowledge of political life in the Republic of Slovenia or how it works – at least with us in the National Assembly. Actually, I'm not even reading that. Far from it. There's nothing to read. Well, if you're ignorant about these things, you learn, as they say. But you can't learn things that the Ministry or the Minister of Justice should know — right? Now I am going to say one thing that is very old, and I have already mentioned it in the National Assembly, but because it happened to be the Minister of Justice – I am talking about Mr Kozinac, the long-standing President of the Bar, of whom you know very well what I am talking about, and he was also one of the first ministers in the Drnovšk government – who resigned. Do you know why he gave up? He resigned because he was at the Ministry of Justice in charge of the assembly or had a commission to assign housing to civil servants; it is said, in the ministries of the then government. And because the commission offered half a percent lower interest rate than you got in the credit bank — are you listening to me? — and the minister did not even sit on this committee, nor did he have anything to do with this commission, there was such a big boom and a big affair to get better loans to settle the housing problem, and the minister resigned. Minister Kozinc has not been in any predictive procedure, no investigation has been conducted against him, he has never been proven to have been suspended in any way, what is obviously and literally a syringe. There is virtually no Slovenian who would not know that you are actually a person who does not pay the municipal contribution, as all citizens must, and in the end, three, four days before the interpretation you pay the municipal contribution. Otherwise, I must say that the mayor of Šentjur is very happy because the budget has become rich with a municipal contribution, but we cannot be happy that the minister has found that it would be good if he pays and stops breaking and proving what he will pay and what he will not pay, but if it is very clear for all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia that they have to pay the municipal contribution. But it's interesting, isn't it, that we discussed the Construction Law last week, where exactly what you did, you wanted to legalize. A man will get a building permit, he won't have to pay a municipal contribution, because then he won't have any money, because it's too much money, and he'll pay it when he gets started. But watch out! In the law – thank God it is now changed, with our amendments corrected – you have foreseen the following: that even if he did not pay the municipal contribution, no one could stop him from building the house. Where did we hear that? How do we know that? That's what happened to you. But the law had not yet been in force; well, thank God, it is not now in force. You mentioned these new hundred days of peace. You've had peace before you for five months. For five months, no one wants to hurt you, because you haven't done anything. You know, when you go to that speaker stage, you have to think about what you're gonna say. I listened to you very precisely and very carefully. We are not a court here and we do not prosecute you, but we are convinced that you are politically one of the worst justice ministers in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. Definitely! But, Minister, I told you this from the beginning before you came to the hearing. At the time, I asked you where you were at work. Your answer was that you wouldn't tell me, so you wouldn't have to tell me which law office it was. And you know why I asked you that at the time? Not just because we wanted to know what your work experience was, but I wanted to know where you paid your taxes. Who, who did you pay for your contributions to? Because the more we look at the records, it's clear that somewhere you've been getting revenue. You know, but here's the thing: if you're busy, it's one thing if you have a contract and you're supposed to be a cost and it's a tax evasion. You know, Minister, you're gonna have to put bills in here if you can or can't avoid interpolation. Thank God, I'm not one of those wizards who predicts what's gonna happen. We'll see about that when we vote. But one thing is clear, Minister. Regardless of the outcome of the interpolation, you will not escape anywhere, you will still have to come to the National Assembly two floors below and deposit the accounts at the expense of seeing whether or not you are involved in matters that are not most good for the Minister of Justice, especially in this government. In fact, where you were employed, and according to records of course, which are publicly available, because you do not want to talk about it and do not want to say it, it is more than clear that you were employed in a company that is strongly linked to people and businesses who participated in the laundering of SDS customers before the elections where they rented credit for their elections. Strong. And you won't be able to escape that. Even though with you, you know, that's when you say how hard it is to say it is already – wait, this is exactly what I need to find your dictatorship, because it doesn't make sense that we're discovering some warm water, and then we say we didn't get along. [[…]] Oh, "that it's hard to prove that you're going to prove me wrong" and that I don't know what else. For we will not prove them, they will prove them in court, and the prosecution will bring the evidence, not the Members, not the Messengers. I don't know what you were talking about, what you were thinking. Today we've heard that the political race is against you because you're in this government. In this government. Let me remind you, a criminal complaint against Mr Dikaucič has already been filed by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia four years ago, and the Slovenians did not even know who you were. In political parties, no one cares who you are. That's when it all started. That's why, Minister, you know, these pamphlets, how we act against you just because you're in this government, they're a little awkward. Just like they were awkward or, I'll say, a ridiculous education minister, from whom you brag about taking over the baton – I mean, I'd rather boast about taking over the baton somewhere at a sports event, an event, not an interpolation; it's not to brag – when she says she's being intertwined just because she's a woman. Understand that being a bad minister has nothing to do with sex, whether you're a woman or a man. And the same goes for you. You're a bad minister, you suck. I have a question for you, too. I hope you'll answer my question, or you'll just be looking at the phone all afternoon. I mean, why would I ask that? Because, you see, there's no NSI on the other side, no SDS, no government president was here at all. It is customary for the President of the Government to, if not, at least morally support his minister. And no one supports you, no one. They're giving up the mass debate. She reported five minutes to NSI for discussion. Five minutes. Do you know what that is? Nothing. I'd be embarrassed. Answer me the question of what this means at all, I would really like to know what this means to be "temporary" with the delegates. This I would like to know what it means to be "temporary" if you or the Government does not name anything but just get to know each other. What does that mean? You got to know each other for a while, then will you forget a little bit or what? What does that mean? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes. Tell me, where does that say, where did you find out about this murder as a lawyer? [[…]] Where, where? I hope they didn't take part in the Ministry in this murder because there's no law, no sub-law, no record of any document stating any temporaryity. Accept already one fact that only the State Prosecutor's Council is in the process; the government is nothing; the government is just getting to know itself. The fact that Janez Janša doesn't like it is that you want to change the law now, so what do you know, what else, that's another thing. But you're the Justice Minister, Counselor. A bumper, but what would you call it? And then you knit and you do some kind of impossible expression that, I'll say, law students don't understand and ask their professors what that means, because now they don't understand it if they happen to be questioned at the exam. What does "temporary" mean? Did you think that this temporaryity would be so that for a time now you proposed a little bit or you got to know each other because then you would forget a little while later, but you would — I don’t know, what? They reacquainted themselves with some new candidates and then they will simply say it in the EU, because, indeed, Slovenia would like to replace its people. Let's get rid of these and they'll get to know each other and we'll get some new people – don't I know? Explain to me – as a layman – how this is happening – at the same time as a Member of Parliament, so that we can understand each other – because I am seriously concerned about where this is going. You have one serious problem, Minister. You're interpreting the legislation, but you're interpreting it the way you want it. You have proved this in your participation in various companies, you have proved this in paying or not paying the municipal contribution. You have proved this in proposing to the Government proposals that no one understands, except you and John Janša, because the rest still have to confirm what is proposed, because otherwise this means automatic suspension and – goodbye. Minister, you have a real problem. This interpolation has brought at least two good things. You know which one, don't you? The municipality of Šostjanj has equipped itself with additional money for the municipal contribution and finally the government has come to know, otherwise she says it is temporary, and we have received a delegated prosecutor. The State Prosecutor's Council wrote the following sentence, I would be embarrassed, I would be ashamed to read this – this was on Friday, 19, I quote, “The State Prosecutor's Council is today” – news from the U.S.A. you like so much – “welcome from the government's introduction to its proposal last year for the appointment of Tanja Frank Eller and Matei Oštir as European Delegated Prosecutor and her decision to own this proposal to the European Public Prosecutor's Office for further action.” [[…]] [[…]] Attention, essential sentence! “With this the government has or will fulfil the legal obligations, they added.” And you in one stroke of temporaryity. I didn't track any words temporarily. Dear Minister, as I said at the outset, when you were at the hearing, I asked you where you came up with the idea of hoping to become a minister, given everything: your past and characteristics, which of course you don't even hide anymore, don't you, you keep doing them. Of course, I haven't had an answer, I've just had some insulted crying, how everything has gone against you and how bad it is, because you're so mutilated, and so on and so forth. At least say it out loud today, if you hope: whether your predecessor, Minister Lilliana Kozlovich, acted unlawfully because she did not want to do what you later did, or whether you will say that only the court can decide. Otherwise there is no predictive or criminal procedure in this regard, but you like to repeat it, but because there is nothing, because it was just a political retreat and it was more or less clear, because it did not agree with the work of the Government, you came and did exactly what your predecessor didn't want to do because she thought it was illegal. Come on, have some courage and say it out loud. Come on, 'cause that's gonna be the right answer, so we know how brave you are. Answer me, will you change the State Attorney's Act? Say it out loud. People have the right to know this because it will also make it clear what your intentions are. The public contribution shall not be paid. Of course, it's no big deal, because you have a government minister who talks about stupid taxes and non-payments, because it's stupid all of it in this country anyway. But if so, it will be something like this, and it will be necessary to crack the egg, and you seem to know it in this government. But if that were what my colleague, another minister, would say to me, and that I would be in your shoes, at least, I would give a public warning and protect the judiciary. When did you come to this? Have you ever defined anything about this? Have you ever thought about it? Do you always look down when someone tells you something in your life? Minister, you have to have a little courage and a little stasis if you want to be Justice Minister. Good thing your own president came to support you. Look, it's empty, it's all empty, keep moving. And this void and this one is in your Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Representative of the proposer, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I've been watching you through this whole debate. You don't write anything down, you don't react with anything, you don't give anything; in short, your passivity today is the same as the passivity we've seen practically the entire mandate. I'm really worried right now that you, with such vehementness and someone, are essentially a distasteful attitude towards us, who are telling you, who are asking you what we are reading, are practically giving no meaning. You sit in the house of democracy, in the temple of democracy, where, as the minister elected by our Members, you answer the legislative branches of power, that is, us Members. You owe it to me. This ignorance of yours today is really telling, because I believe that if you are a lawyer, you know the Latin river, who is silent when you should and could speak, it seems to attach. The same applies to the entire coalition side. It's empty, no one's defending you, no one's defending yourself. Your President, Mr. Restoring, has come to sit on his chair for three minutes. Is that the support? Or I would ask myself if I were you, Mr. Minister, why no one supports me. Why doesn't anyone say anything to my benefit? You don't even say anything in your favor. If it weren't so sad and alarming, it would still be funny. I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, to join the debate, however. You're the reason we're here today, and we need answers or explanations. The Ambassadors of Desus have made it very clear in their position that all the things we are reading to you are aware that they are not so much attracted to hair. I don't want to put words in their mouths, but I wrote it down. They said "that we will listen carefully to the debate and then, on the basis of some of the answers that you will give, decide whether or not they will support the interpretation." You, Sir Dikaucič, have not yet responded to any of the allegations I have previously given you. I hereby state which provisions of the law you are violating, where your personality is morally challenged to serve as minister. I am afraid that today we will again witness that, at the end of the debate, at the end of the day, the Minister will, of course, happily report to the end of the word, read what others will write to him, because I doubt that you are writing alone, because if you were able to defend yourself, you would now defend yourself actively in the course of the debate. And that, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, is what the Minister of Justice is capable of or willing to do on the interpretation of it. Very disrespectful, respectable Mr. Dikaucic. If you think this reduces the importance of today’s interpolation, you are seriously wrong; on the contrary! You are increasing the importance of today's interpolation because the empty chairs of the coalition, the empty ministerial chair and your silence justifies why you simply cannot be the Minister of Justice anymore. Pika. I do hope that today's event, today's debates, today's arguments by the motioners, who, as has already been said, in actual and legal facts, are heard by all Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get ready for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Minister Dikauchič, just a lot of words to lose around you, I really don't think it makes sense. You're a typical symptom of this government, a typical symptom of janchism. Shut up, you're doing it directly, or you're not doing it better, which is what the President of the Government wants you to do. If on Friday at the interview, Minister Simoni Kustec was able to give her some kind of conversion and voter release, because she was a prominent representative, even the leader of the SMC Group, who had clearly advocated a different policy before the elections, based on integrity, a commitment to democratic standards, constitutionality, human rights and so on, and has repeatedly committed herself not to join the coalition with Janez Janš, you, the honourable Minister, we cannot see this. After all, you joined a party in order to remain a minister, and you would join an SMC or any other party; you are a man without some values and ideas. If we look at your past actions, as we have pointed out in the democratic opposition when you were appointed, your past is strongly, strongly disputed – based on a well-founded suspicion of economic crime, the establishment or takeover of straw companies that were owed to people and the country prior to bankruptcy. Your operation is based on tax evasion, document fraud and other frauds. In a way, we can say that you're a real soldier for doing dirty business, which is a typical symptom of Jancism. To represent a member of the government as such, it is unacceptable for every democratic person, a man with integrity. However, to appoint such a person as Minister of Justice, it is quite horrendous and scandalous, but unfortunately, completely in line with the functioning of this government. Apart from the fact that some credible people in this fraternity, called the Third Janša Government, are difficult to obtain; even after the former Minister has resigned because of the unlawful acts committed by the Prime Minister of the Government, because the President of the Government has forced her to act unconstitutionally. Let us talk about the appointment of prosecutors, many of which have already been said today, disregarding the judgments of the courts or the unconstitutional adoption of decisions with the total suspension of Parliament, the indirect violation of human rights and so on. That's how you agreed to do it. Now let's just look at the difference between the SMC in the past when Mr Klemenčič, a prominent lawyer, took over the City of Justice. Today, SMC is suitable for “Dijanšič” or, I apologize, Dikaucič. You've fallen so deep. The sole purpose of this government is to plunder the country and the economy, as far as possible, and, on the other hand, to suspend all the democratic and constitutional foundations of our Republic. This is done by the government, by the fact that it is now completely honest and it no longer hides it. On behalf of the President of the Government, you too, Minister, are destroying, you are responsible for the destruction of the independence of the media, of the judiciary; you are ruling against the Constitution, with decrees as I have already said; you are insulting and attacking trade unions and NGOs; you are embarrassing us abroad, and you are totally, totally, totally responsible for the fight against the epidemic and therefore responsible for the number of deaths. There were over five thousand of them a few days ago. We're among the recorders. And you abuse the epidemic to usurp power and prey on the economy and the country as much as possible. Not to mention the assault on police independence and the exchange of all police chiefs. What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? Will you answer that? You won't. Shame! It is my responsibility to say that this is already the beginning of a coup d'état. As Janez Janša is not foreign, more and more documents are coming on the day around the event in 1994 after the discontinuation of Janez Janša because of the Depal village affair. He didn't make it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are building your power on myth, which is characteristic of all autocratic regimes, the myth of independence, the ten-day war and the fight against communism. Ironically, John Janša was one of the most loyal members of the Union of Communists and the only current leader besides the President of the Republic, who was also an active communist. Not to mention what is not the point of today's debate that independence was by no means yours alone. Your contribution during this period could be said to be the progeny of the amber which escalates today, but many injustices, for example, erased and increased intolerance, rematchism and nationalism. Yeah, and that was a win-win! Minister, I know you're shameless to look to the ground and thus solve all the dilemmas. You won't answer because you don't know. In the end, you will read what others have written to you, as you did in the beginning. But I am reminding you of something else: that these stories — if you like — the grotesque third government of Janša will very soon be over. And then what do you count? I know what you're counting on. You're counting on a Mob meeting with a Visian in his masonry, perhaps a Cossian bull, as he says, illegally in a closed inn, you might eat a peach sandwich and look forward to – at least some of the hunters will still be left, we'll have them – and they'll agree on how to position and prey on it. This is the modus operandi of this government and you are typical of its soldier. You're doing good, you're quiet, and that's why you're rewarded. But when this moment comes to an end of this tragedy, it will be necessary to seriously imagine and say "no" to such practices in politics, whether on the left or on the right: enough Janez Janša and enough looting of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Get Janja the Servant ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	President, thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues! In the SAB, as our Member has already said, we support this interpretation. We estimate that there have been deep cuts in Slovenia's legal system that affect and disrupt the coherence of this legal system. Moves that are wrong and are not in line with the existing system, not even with the constitution. This is indicated by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And this is by no means justified by the excuse that rapid action is needed to address the covid-19 crisis. Indeed, we live in a democratic state, so we have written down, and according to the principle of uniformity of power, in modern societies, the holder of authority is the people who exercise power through beloved representatives into state bodies, and the highest authority of the state is the National Assembly, which adopts legislation. I think the attitude of the Minister and the Government towards the National Assembly is inappropriate and underestimating. Over time, democracy has established a principle that has proved to be very good: the division of power into legislation, executive and judicial power. However, the Minister of Justice is the one in charge of enabling the legal authorities to function normally in the executive branch. And that obviously doesn't work. I have not heard for a moment that he fought in a budget that is enormous to obtain the judicial branch of the authority of the money he needs. They didn't take any of this into account. We have heard this clearly these days, and it has been clearly presented to us. And we have neither heard a voice nor spoken in this direction – I apologize, perhaps an inappropriate word. Look what this is all about. The undeniable fact is that democracy cannot work without the rule of law. It is only the law, as it were, that we have written in the beginning that we are the rule of law, allowing the freedom of people to function, and that through history this freedom and the voice of the people has been made possible through the dialectic between justice, law and power. It may seem to limit freedom for everyone's freedom at first sight to the paradox, but it's not, it's the basic logic of democracy. And every day, we can follow the way we break that logic. Justice, so enshrined in the laws, and the rule of law is something like that, is the draw that makes Europeans, for example, no longer kill themselves today, because we also respect the law of our common, wider European countries. Well, that's an old thing. 200 years before we count, the great thinker, the Roman Ulpian, found that as far as the law is concerned, all people are equal, all people have the same dignity, and now we are making first-class and second-class. In fact, at the time of this government's operation, I would expect the Minister of Justice to react and defend the rule of law and not at any time. Did anyone hear that? Look, I remember the movie. I don't know who was watching it. Now I don't remember the address. It's happening in a castle when people, Hitler's ministers, were locked up in a clause during the Nazi era. Even then and there were a couple of those who were, and it went in the direction of a final solution to the Jewish question. And I'm watching this film, well, they're attacking, but the Minister of Justice, back then, is loudly resisting it, loudly and clearly. Otherwise, I won't say, for the right reasons, but he said if we do this, we're going to crash the whole system and we're not going to work. We can't do anything as different as the system is set up. If it is legislation, it must be coherent, it must be prior, there must be reasons, they must be justified and so on. And they fought, what do I know, three nights there, three days that they went to fix the basics. To do this, we must change the country, there can no longer be democracy, there cannot be this country that has such a constitution. Well, otherwise some people have already said, let's just do another republic and we have to change everything and we have to change people. But as long as we have such a constitution, it's unacceptable. And the justice minister should be firmly on the side of the legal system and democracy, as enshrined in our constitution and laws. Things seem to work as others have said, and that's why former Minister Lilliana Kozlovich resigned. When we even watched her on TV when she was asked a provocative question, she kept her mouth shut, and she didn’t answer. Our minister is not answering today. There's nothing to answer. That's why, as we've seen, I believe, look, we have ministries, a couple hundred people in there are employees, four hundred, five hundred, six hundred, and I believe that these people are very well-trained. Let's let them do what they've been set up to do lately or even before; those people for a green breakthrough because they're so green they can't do anything about it, and they're destroying this administration that can work and that has to work for people. Look what's happening to me. I am also convinced that there are a lot of people today who are preparing quality laws that are preparing changes that are in accordance with the Constitution, legislation, and taking care of order. On Saturday we listened, 41 guests of the printed pages were prepared by our Law-Legal Service to comment on the law that was such – it does not work, it does not fit into the system and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm sure people are preparing, but we hear that after they've prepared all this, the Ministry will fly orders out of the office in the morning and have to change. And that's how the arsonists flew in, and that's how our system is collapsing. The Minister should be the first here and the Ministry of Justice not to allow it. Because when it comes time for the judiciary to decide that the laws are wrong, that it is wrong for these decisions to be illegal, months pass and the damage is done. Well, it has to be stopped at the beginning. And one of these guardians of the legal system should be on the side of the legal system, with their personal actions and approaches, for the functioning of the judiciary, which ultimately decides whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional or legal. Obviously not, just follow orders. And according to our constitution, the Minister is himself responsible for his area. He's not a government, he's responsible for his area. And he was defending him? He's trying for him, he's done something, or does anyone know anything in this room? So far, I have not heard anything, and it is hard for us to destroy this system of ours, this country that allows and we have started to do the first- and second-class people, and the ministry is not working for us, but there are only obedient executors, which invents the cabinet, brings these changes and spoils the well-designed matter, and then by voting here, in the National Assembly, we confirm it. And people look at us and then wonder why Parliament has such a low reputation for human beings. Because we don't talk, we don't have dialogue, we don't save. We mostly bark at each other. I don't feel good about this. And the minister, greeted well between us, the Minister of Justice, should be the first to defend this state of law. He didn't do it, so we're going to vote in favour of interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you, too. There has been a change in the list of discussers. Nick Prebil has the word, and Janja the Servant is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! Minister, I'm glad you're back, but I'm already afraid you're gonna have to be in this house, but... Today, I will touch on three key points in my debate. The first observation is a lack of respect for laws, an example of notariat in the Žalec. Another thing is the catastrophic abuse of your political function on the influence — or not, whatever — of not naming European Delegated Prosecutors and your non-integrity and the moral bottom of this government, which you are part of, that is, part of the injustice. I was elected to the Barrier 2 constituency, where the Grief alone belongs. I have spoken with many citizens and citizens, representatives of the local authorities and everyone in the same voice, pointing out that the closure of the notary office is actually some sort of local disaster, in fact, because, as a matter of fact, the respected minister, due to your decision or indecisive transfer – we will clean up a little later – the entire Lower Savina Valley, a little over 42 thousand people, must drive more than 10 kilometers away. Well, you've even said here today that you have nothing to do with this, that you've gotten out of the process, and let's leave it to you, of course, to the position of power, which is clear today, you're quietly taking revenge, but let's see. Your complaint was, of course, long ago resolved and, in fact, there was no conflict of interest, for which you should be excluded from this process, but, of course, you transferred your authority or authority to someone else; of course, that you should not have to deal with it. Even since, of course, your activities in this area were by no means present, this inactivity has led to the closure of the notariat. As far as I am aware, this Mr. Notary, when he, in the meantime, realized that there would be complications when you first complained about the procedure I don't know, Minister, given that you are a minister, could learn to read the invitations, given that you applied for two jobs in your own time, you did not meet the conditions, because, nicely by indents, they write in order. [[…]] I don't know what the problem is, but it doesn't matter. [[…]] This complaint caused the notary at the time to notice that there will be complications and ask for an extension of its mandate and therefore for your inactivity again, which, of course, was rejected at your ministry, with your instructions. So you bear, Minister, an objective responsibility for determining the persons who have caused such a situation and, of course, subjective responsibility because you have abandoned your duty. Let me say you're in violation of the Notariat Act here and you're also in violation of two conditions. The first is that the continuity of a notary must continue, and the second is that the Grief has a district court and by law the place where the district court is must also have a notariat. So, Minister, here I don't think there's enough and there's no mistaking, because it's clear enough that there's been a violation of the legislation in question. Not to be too long at this point, I'm going to point two. This is the European Delegated Prosecutor's Office. This, Minister, is first of all yours and second of all the government and, in fact, the Slovenian shame of the international space without chance, the only European unique Janša's political struggle against all of us. Minister, with what's going on, of course, you're still deliberately mortifying legislation, but I think I can say here that you're very lonely. You're actually slapping yourself when you're doing what you're doing. Because this is only and only a matter of political influence on these relevant procedures. Minister, you were talking about democracy in the middle. I tell you that today's most recent statement by the Swedish Idea Institute says that Slovenia, together with Hungary and Poland, has gone back to democracy. So in your government, which part of you are; therefore, you are therefore guilty of this situation, Minister. Let's do it in a row. My colleague Möderndorfer said it would be nice to explain this temporaryity and also the role of the Government, because you obviously don't understand what you are right now. And I will tell you what you are; what President Janša said is that the government is not just a post office, but in this case the government is just a post office because it dictates the law because the law focuses on the choice of European Delegated Prosecutors by the profession, those who are qualified for such appointment or making a proposal. 71.d. Article 71 of the Law states, second paragraph, the last part of the citram, "The Ministry of the Proposal for the Appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor shall forward the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a briefing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit a proposal to appoint a European Delegated Prosecutor to the European Public Prosecutor's Office." So the government, with its only activity in this process, did not, of course, want to, solely because of the political influence on the whole process, and because these candidates, Janez Janša himself, are not the weather. You obviously don't understand as some legal expert you might understand it, right as such. In fact, the fifth paragraph of Article 17 clearly shows and even mentions the derogation, unnecessary services and discharges – and I refer to this temporaryity – and the derogation, unnecessary service or discharge is certainly not within the power of the Government, but is within the competence of the European Delegated Prosecutor's Office in order to replace it. In my humble opinion, the well-respected minister here, the government is reluctant — or not temporarily — to cut a bit — to say a little bit at home because, in fact, the process has now been completed. Let me read to you just the last sentence of European Commissioner Vere Jouvre, where she wrote that all the Delegated Prosecutors are now appointed. Nowhere is there anything about any temporaryity, so all that will be done at this level will, of course, be an additional violation of Slovenian legislation and the Constitution. Many warnings, Minister, have been received from abroad during your term of office. And let me tell you something, because you've obviously forgotten about them in the meantime. The entire summer and September are marked by calls by European chief prosecutor Laura Corduţa Kövesi and European Justice Commissioner Didier Reinders: in Slovenia they should finally appoint a European Delegated Prosecutor's Office. Of course, in addition to calling for respect for the rule of law, you have also spoken about this legal state, of course you have a strong respect for it. Another one of the lies. Last but not least, I don't think you need to be reminded of this, given that you've been performing all along, but I think you've even said in the middle that illegality is determined by the court. Yeah, he's running away, Minister, isn't he? Yes, and I'll tell you that the illegality and unconstitutionality of the court have repeatedly found in this government which part of you you are. Even in the procedures you signed. The Administrative Court granted an appeal to two unnamed European Delegated Prosecutors and ordered the Government to remove the decision. Government, watch this now, Government: “The measure of judgment cannot be enforced.” Yes, who the hell is this government going to be over Slovenia's judicial system and the rule of law of the country and the European Union? Don't be shy! Well, let's move on. Why is all this talk about not naming European Delegated Prosecutors, Minister? Because only you — and probably God — know how many bags of money the members of this government have in their fingers, including in European bags of money. And always, Minister, when the question was, you were quiet. You're quiet today, too. Finally, one of the ministers of this government made it clear that taxes should not be paid in this country because it was supposed to be stupid. Yeah, I don't know, it's probably stupid for you to sit here today, because I'd be in your shoes, too, because it's actually stupid that you're still here, but still. I'm sorry, but there's no other way to say these things. Once again, there is probably no minister of this government who wouldn't have a full cart behind him — and I'm not saying I won't say anything. This somehow leads to further mud in the European political space. This is more my area, European policy and foreign affairs. You know, Minister, jokes on your account are almost written themselves. Even Prime Minister Janša has preached about some respect for the rule of law in the European Union, but that respect for the rule of law is indeed, indeed, a priority and that we will step on others if it is necessary, even though this government, the prime minister and you, too, are, because you are part of the government, a synonym for beating the rule of law in this country. Well, and afterwards, this is really funny to me, you've attended a forum on the digitisation of justice and respect for fundamental rights. I will quote what you said there: "The goal of greater efficiency of justice must also be accompanied by full respect for the principle of the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms of all those involved in the justice system at all times." Yeah, run, run! Maybe we should start at home. I already told you where. It is hypocritical, indeed, that the Minister has never raised his voice against the beating of the rule of law – or he has not said it at all – because you have never commented on anything because you have been silent all the time – says such phrases on the European political floor, where everyone is laughing at us after what you are doing. In fact, this brings us to your moral, ethical and political responsibility, the well-respected minister. You're in court against the suspicion of tax evasion and document fraud. According to your household, you are suspected of economic crime at the expense of the state. Do you imagine a minister sitting in another European country with such serious accusations? And not the opposing Messengers, but the coalition Messengers would have brought you out of the Hall. We wouldn't have solved it, we'd have taken you out! But here I mean, I don't even know where they find this courage to defend you, because most coalition partners aren't, except of course from your own party. [[…]] Where do they find this courage to defend you in such accusations that you have been accused of? Not to talk about it – at your hearing, I asked you clearly where you were doing, what you were doing. Of course there was silence, we didn't get any answers. To this day we have seen well how you work and what you do. Once again: tax evasion, document fraud, non-payment by law of certain obligations, law abuse, violation of the Constitution. As it is said, it is probably the only European justice minister who can be charged with such charges and still sits in his place. Now is really another short sentence about your municipal contribution, even if it is paid now; probably only because you were really scared of this threat of Desus and were afraid that you would really fly away, which, as it were said, in some democracy and country of law – like this, bam, like a match in a chicken! I wonder, Minister, how the hell did you get a building permit, if you didn't pay for a municipal contribution? I think there's gonna have to be a little bit more digging through this closet of yours to get some more skeletons out of it; and it's probably going to be. And that, Minister, what you have sworn in this house and then even repeated here again, all of this, Minister, you have persistently and daily violated. So this cookie on the cake, all these suspicions are actually almost an apple on the cake, because garlic would be too small for all of this. But, Minister, if you don't have these responsibilities in you, look under the table, maybe it's there, and she'll say, "Good morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Applicant – Tina Heferle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I would like to take a call, given that colleague Nick Prebil was also talking about the notariat in Žalec. And I'm just going to add a little bit of this to his debate and read, given that the Minister is still silent about how the Minister was defending himself with these perceptions in response to the interpellation. The actual situation has already been described by his colleague Nick. It was an invitation to enroll in the City of Notary where the Minister, who was rejected or rejected in the candidacy, applied for. He complained, the complaint was rejected and Minister Dikaucič left this process of selection of the new notary as soon as possible. Then, in the selection process, new complaints by other candidates took place, and this procedure, as it was said, was further delayed. In the meantime, Mr Dikaucič became Minister and received a request from the notary or an application for an additional extension of the notary function at the table. In his reply to the interpolation, the Minister refers to the fact that, if I say so, he has been excluded from the decision-making issue because there was a conflict of interest. And let me explain to you, Minister, that there was no conflict in fact – you have long since left as an actor this decision-making process and would have easily assumed your responsibility as a minister in the decision-making or appointment of notaries to a notary city. This, however, tells you article 10 of the Notariat Act, which states that the Notary is appointed to the vacant post of Minister. But no, okay, you have decided to transfer the decision in this matter to the Acting Director-General of the Competent Directorate; okay, and he has decided as he has decided. In your reply, I quote, “because the decision to appoint a new notary was sent by the Ministry of Justice 26. 5. 2021 « This decision, to clarify, said that this notary function was being extended, I believe, up to 30. Six, no more. [[…]] The role, I say, is again quoted as saying, “The role of the notary for the renewal of the performance of the notariat has been given by the Ministry of Justice after this, that is, 28. [[…]] 5’. That's a two-day difference, but the devil is always in the details, Mr. Secretary. You say the decision to appoint a new notary was sent by the Ministry of Justice 26. 5, the application for the renewal of the old notary was submitted on 28. 5. What am I trying to say? For you, I have the first solution that we could decide to implement in this case, but there would be no violation of the Notariat Act. The first solution would be that, given the fact that the first decision has not yet been served, you, as the decision-making minister, could issue a supplementary decision because we both know that we know that in administrative proceedings or also in judicial proceedings, wherever decisions are made or decisions of a substantive nature, you may, until this decision is served to the addressee, fully legitimate and legally supplement the content of this undeclared decision. This would be the first, most elegant solution if, of course, you were active in the performance of your ministerial function. But you're not. That's how we see it today. Then I have another solution for you, Mr. Secretary. If, after the case, this decision has already been served within these two days, you have the possibility, Mr Minister, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act — I hope you know it — to enforce an exceptional remedy; that is, repealing the decision under supervisory law. This simply means or you have this option when it comes to a decision issued by the authority, in which case you as the Ministry, if it comes with this decision – and if it comes with this decision – be careful, legally competent – that there is a breach of a material regulation, then you are obliged by official duty, you have the right and you are obliged to remove this decision from the world at the same time. And this allows you to make an extraordinary legal remedy in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the so-called annulment of the decision under supervisory law. However, what material provision was violated in this case, but I have already stated in my introductory explanation, article 11 of the Notariat Act, which refers to the fact that at least one notary seat belongs to the district court. We both know – I hope we both know – that there is a district court in the Grief. And another condition, or other materiality, which has indeed been breached is that this same article of the Notariat Act, article 11, provides — legally, of course, Mr Minister — that in certain cases where the population is concentrated, at least one notary should be appointed to 20 thousand inhabitants. Simply put, you will understand, there are more than 42 thousand inhabitants in the Lower Savina Valley, and these inhabitants are without a notariat. The notary office was opened there practically even the independence of Slovenia, for almost three decades. In fact, your breach of duty in this case is evident and obvious and otherwise, as I have just described, I can no longer tell you to understand. I hope you understand. And I hope you are aware that your objective responsibility as Minister also includes the decision-making of the Acting Director-General of the Competent Directorate to which you have delegated the decision-making authority. For the objective responsibility of the Minister, political of course, means that the Minister is politically responsible, that is essentially a hierarchical responsibility, for any action or event that is the result of the conduct of the entities directly superior to them. More than that, in this case, you have given someone else the opportunity to make a decision on your behalf. In short, for all those who said today that the interpretation was based on some flat readings, please let's say mea culpa, here the minister has committed a manifest violation with his resignation and at the same time an active act, because you have transferred responsibility to someone else, you have caused the illegal closure of the notariat in the Žalec. The law, I will tell you again, the law expressly obliges you that in two cases, when two conditions are met, notariat is legally binding because notary activity is a public activity, provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have a special law that defines it. He's in the public interest. And you are here, despite the fact that the notariat in the Žalec has fulfilled both conditions; be careful, it would be enough if one of them were met, but both conditions are met: we have a district court in the Žalec and more than 20,000 inhabitants are in this area, more than once more. But you are, I don't know, in the eyes of him, and I'll dare to say something, but you are, because of some resentment, some vendetta, or I don't know what -- of course, I'm prejudiced, but because you're quiet, I can only explain it to myself -- you said no, we're not going to extend the notary place to that notary who was already there, because I wasn't chosen. Haha. This is extremely unacceptable, extremely unserious. Unworthy Minister of Justice. And I mentioned it earlier, and I will do it again now; it is enough to act unlawfully or immorally that you are no longer fit to serve as a minister. You, Mr Dikaucič, have these actions and these situations with criminal matters, and so on more than enough to not be fit to perform a ministerial function, especially ministerial functions for justice. I would really like to see if you will be able to speak with courage and courage in this house, in this Chamber. And I would like to know how you will comment on these two very elegant solutions, which I have just presented to you, what would be worthwhile and necessary to follow the legal duty prescribed by the Notariat Act in Article 11. At the same time, and more subjectively, I would like to ask if you know this institution of exceptional legal remedy for repealing the decision under supervisory law. Since you are legally competent to decide in administrative proceedings as a minister, I'm really curious whether you're familiar with it at all. Because if you're familiar with this institute, then in this case, the notariat in the Žalec acted malaronistic because you weren't active enough. If you don't know him, it's even more obvious that you're not fit for this function that you're performing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	I can actually continue here where colleague Hefferletov ended up. Why? Because we have, in fact, spoken on this subject many times. It was at that time that the candidate for minister began to be heard and then continued on all the time. Why? Because people are turning to us. A colleague elected in that constituency, I am elected directly with, of course, people are addressing us with this problem, with these problems. We are obliged to look at what happens to the matter, when it will be solved, how it will be resolved, and we are also obliged to advocate that people get what they should be provided for, just as it is for everyone else in this country. You have also been asked a number of questions on this subject, but I must conclude that the result of these questions, or the answers that have come, is exactly the same as what we see today – there is no answer. Those answers that were written there are the same as if they were not, because in fact there was no information, no data, no deception and lies themselves. Talking about that notary office closing down because he wanted it so bad. The Lord retired and, when he asked for his notary activities to be completed, rightly expected that from the day he informed the Ministry more than eight months before the end of the year when he actually wanted to retire, the procedure for his replacement would be completed within more than eight months. I repeat, more than eight months. And in those first eight months, the procedure wasn't executed because of you. It was because of you at the time, because you complained and because you didn't pick up the mail. There is the original sin of the whole process and the process is not finished today, but that is where it began. In the first part, you had the main word whether the procedure would be carried out and how quickly it would be, and also in the second part, colleague Hefferle very much explained. To deceive now by noting himself wanted to close; of course he wanted to, but you should carry out the procedure. First of all, complaining about something that's obvious, which is a fact that you don't have, isn't even a mathematical stranger. If a person does not have one year of work experience in a system in which he is competing for a function, then he is not suitable for this function and in fact has nothing to complain about for some other reason than delaying the procedure and for some reasons. The same person who was not fit for this function is now sitting here and reading quietly what someone writes to him in the way we saw him last week on Friday. Same way. So the same person wrote and also prepared both ministers for the performance, which is evident in the manner: the attack is the best defense, be determined. You both turned out to be even aggressive, I have to say, what a negative surprise to all of us here. One is saying "sex" and the other is saying "nothing" but "silence." And people, 42 thousand people are without a notary. I know, you've been answering my question, my question, that it's not true, we have a substitute notary, it's all going well. I already told you that he doesn't hold what you're saying. Yeah, you all went to this meeting with this surrogate notary, you probably took a nice photo, published this, but didn't tell you what this replacement notary really told you. You didn't say. That things don't run, that they don't run! That one day a week or two can't replace what someone would do permanently five days a week, but you can't. And that he already has so much work in his original office that he just can't do it anymore. And it's not the same, it's not the same for someone who lives in the Grief or even out of the Grief, to drive to the Notary in the Grief or Cel. It's not the same. I know what this notariat looks like, I've done some things in private there a couple of times. Even when he was still working normally, he always had to wait. Always, because there aren't 20,000 people, there are 42 thousand, and there could be two already. It's good news. Whenever you arrived, ordered or not, it was kind and had to wait. In Cel, we don't lose words at all! And don't tell me it's the same, whether it's 42 thousand people or just one person who has to drive to Celje for it and has to order so much sooner and get a deadline for it to be up to date. And people don't have a lot of time, and people have other things to deal with, and they need it, and it doesn't matter. You even made fun of me the last time I said that four of them were now employed by this notary at the Employment Institute. You mocked me. Believe me, they're not funny. They're not funny. They don't even know how long they're going to be, nor are they going to be told that the new notary is going to hire them. It doesn't matter. I know you obviously don't care, and you're acting like this right now, but I don't understand it anymore, and I'm wondering how someone who knows for themselves how much butter he has on his head can even agree to become a candidate for that function. I don't get it. Because he can expect this to happen at some point. There's probably something else coming. Now the skeletons are just flying out. I expect there will also be things that we don't know right now. And you do. And how is it possible for a person who knows all this to become a candidate first? I would expect these things to come on the day that you would have to talk to yourself a little bit about how you would tolerate all this, because I wouldn't care; but you give the impression that you don't care. Now from day to day we talk about you, about everything you have on your back, the universal Slovenia will do it and you are sitting there now, looking at the phone, not answering the question as if it were none of your business. It's incomprehensible to me, really, I don't understand how that's even possible. I know a lot of your neighbors there too, where you're building your house, and believe me, they've all paid a municipal contribution. All your neighbors. No one went to the congregation to negotiate whether he would pay or not to pay for it, and at what height he would or would not have been acceptable to him. Nobody. Neither did anyone then lie to the media about paying him, even when he wasn't there. Nobody! But you're the justice minister. Even if you did, you're the justice minister. One more new piece of information, it's probably not even new anymore. Even some of your intentions come on the day that the representatives of the Notary Chamber are expelled from the commission that decides on appointed notaries. That, too. So that the policy will once again take over all the levers and all the places on the committee that check the suitability of the candidates. We wipe out the notary chamber, because it's none of their business, we only have people on the committee, we directly influence the floors, so that, of course, they will then choose our candidates. And if they're not true, then we're not going to name a notary; we're not going to name it, because it doesn't matter, because no one can hurt us. Next thing, prosecutors. You knew exactly what you were getting into in the case of European prosecutors, and you knew exactly what you were doing. In front of you, one candidate has already dropped out because he has made his opinion clear as to European prosecutors; and his hat is down to understand each other. Now I don't know if anyone else understands exactly what moves you've made with regard to how many calls, what's not calls, why not; why one doesn't apply and the other doesn't apply, and there's no way to get to know the other. Actually, it doesn't matter. In fact, it all points out that at the last minute you're saving your skin again, because frankly, if we didn't have an interpretation of you today, if your skeletons hadn't fallen out of the closet, I wouldn't have known about you today since you were appointed Minister. Not even because you're not here. We don't know what you're doing. We don't know if you're doing anything. You didn't bring anything to the table, nothing. The only thing that came up about you were these stories and today's interpolation, which in fact could have been filed on the same day that you were called, because we knew about most of this already when you were being questioned, and because every single thing in itself was enough to never actually swear as a minister. We shouldn't have. Like I said today, we're not supposed to be sitting at the office of the Ministry. And just so we're clear, I'm not insulting the doormen, so I'm saying you're not good enough for them. That's what I'm saying right now, that no one will get it wrong. Well, you'll get to know each other temporarily. What is this, "temporary"? I suppose we will not know, even though we are asking if this suspension is only temporary until the vote on your interpretation, which, given everything that is happening to us about you, I also allow this possibility that this suspension is only until the vote, then, as I have already said in my position, the Government, after the memory of the goldfish, will forget that it has become aware of it. This is also possible with everything we experience. Then, of course, what we talked about with you – colleague Jani has gone a long way into this – this previous experience of yours, this straw management in various companies and now as a point to and all that we were talking about at the time, including the introduction of a judicial investigation into the counterfeiting of documents and tax evasion. I now imagine that, given that we really did not have anything to draw from this CV of yours at the time, it has proved to be true that there is no reference to which we could refer, but I have this, such and such work experience, such and such competences, such and such expertise. In fact, from what we received as material, there was no such thing at the time, and I also prescribe that you are still here, sitting on a chair and looking at the phone, but perhaps at the end of this period you can write in this CV one point with which you can boast: I was half a year Minister. Maybe that's what you think you're going to take away from all this in your resume, because I just can't understand why you'd put up with all this. I can't understand. Still not. I don't know if I'll ever understand. As said and as you have already received a notice or a colleague has informed you, I am really looking forward to inviting you to an investigative committee, but I hope that we will get some answers there, because the links between these companies you have been in and the ways in which you operate are the links that the investigative commission must explore. So, the commission of inquiry that deals with money laundering to understand each other. It's already important enough that we shouldn't even be here today. I was talking about decency, and it's the decency that's really dragging itself through everything I've said. Naked decency, if nothing else, but these people of this government obviously can't make it. More than once today, it has been mentioned that you are sitting alone on that side and that even on this side of the hall is now the most full of what it has ever been today. Maybe that doesn't tell you anything, but it tells us who's sitting here a lot. Why? Because it is a custom and custom that has always been consistently fulfilled in every interpretation and is the largest coalition party to do so. Always. Disciplinaryly and without exception, on each of the interpretations of any minister, these chairs were to the last full, to the last, through the whole discussion of interpolation; even if it took ten or thirteen hours, or fifteen hours! That tells us a lot, because it means you don't even have that support. Even if they end up pressing the “against” button, they are telling you something about their absence, and I hope you understand what they are telling you because we understand. And it also says a lot because this is the same parliamentary group, which is very disciplined and which has engaged enormously every time in other interpretations, which does not present any problems, they obviously have a problem with you. And also, no one else has actually made a decent call. [[…]] I know you don't care because you're counting on you to survive these, seven hours and 52 minutes, you've made one shield around you, probably not actually coming to you, eventually you'll read what this same person wrote to you, and that's it. That's convenient enough for me. It's probably not gonna happen. Members of Desus, who had already announced for the last time how they would listen to the debate and how they would hear the arguments in the debate and then decide, announced the same thing today, but the vote before, we saw what it was like. I don't have the hope that today would be any different, which means that you probably have it, that everything will go as well. But that's not the point. That's not the point. The point is, where I've been asking you before, how can someone who knows what he's done wrong in life, and we're all here to understand each other, but no one has done what you do; so they've been directing straw, cheating Members, lying, picking up mail, stalling procedures, saying things, lying a little bit, then waving a little bit with some letters in front of the cameras, paying a little bit, and not even saying that he did, and not. How can a person consciously decide to run for such a function that he will occupy it and then all of this comes on the day, he still insists on it. I'll never understand that. No, except, like I said, if the only goal of writing all this in the biography of a new point, I was the minister, and counting on it to be forgotten in five, ten, or fifteen years, what kind of minister and what happened next day, that minister will be left alone because there is no one else in this CV. And it's no mistake to understand each other if such a person did not compete for such a function. In that context. As it is said, I do not expect answers, I expect you to continue in your manner with which you started at the hearing of your mother's working body. When you answer, there won't be any answers. Once again, I would like to point out that we are not interpreting you because you are whatever you are, but because you are doing the wrong thing. So not because you're a member of this government, even less because you're a man, even less, but because you've done all these old things in the past, and because you're not really doing anything now, you're pulling your skin out last minute. You have made some moves to try to keep a face before some Members. As a matter of fact, in a court of law, thank God, you can't cut it yet, and that's the part that you haven't been able to fix right now. I hope that things will be figured out as they are, and I hope that those who are not sitting here in the hall now, but I hope that somewhere they are listening, because they are waiting for what you will say – I suppose none of them will care what I say – that they will see that these answers are not really, that this interpretation is more than justified, that the person who is now sitting there, on that chair, should never be sitting there, and that now is the last moment to leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Where do I start? I didn't mean to, but after those 20 minutes of escapades, my colleague in front of me, you unfortunately co-opted this government. I'm sorry. And you'll have it in C. V. that you were the leader of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. Let me put it this way. Each of us has a backpack, and we are responsible for the backpack we wear. Our excellent experts wrote us, “Minister who should not be Minister”. I'd say a minister who shouldn't even be a candidate for a minister. I am not a lawyer, but also a citizen and citizens, if they look at this story around notariat, I will translate it into a language that they would understand or will understand also football fans: I play football, I'm not good enough, I don't even come to the youth team of NK Maribor, which is why I will ban the NK Maribor, but sometimes in Maribor I can play NK Olympia. And ask yourself a rhetorical question about what the Violets would do to you. It will probably be a webbed basement in Trstenjak now that Trstenjak threatens again, but if I understand correctly, Meira is a true magistrate, a colleague here is also a lawyer. Did I get it right? There's no Bako here, either, a lawyer. [[...]] That's it. Well, at least now we understand football players or fans – I don't know football, I admit. Some gentlemen, sometimes they compare me to him, say, quote, “I was surprised that such a novice was ever appointed minister to such an important area. Although it is a vegetable, it has quite a lot of butter on its head. ” [[…]] Then colleague Simonovic mentions – the legendary Ivo Hvalica. But, you know, I wouldn't be out here working on all these affairs and affairs from the goat bull, passating, cheap golf, Gale whistles to stupid taxes and so on. We're actually having a coup. What has been exercised by the Chairman of the Health Committee this weekend is essentially a coup d'état. It's not just the coup d'état that the army/Loyzka is coming and the blood is flowing. It's a coup d'état when you have a breakdown of the rule of law. A coup d'état is when the three-partite division of power doesn't work, a coup d'état is when you're spreading the control mechanisms that are here to somehow prevent anyone from getting lost in power. That's actually what's happening to us today. And to me all that talk about the gentleman sitting here – I hope that all the ministers at least play the same game on the phone when you're here for a short time, and that you're getting good results – I'm not surprised. I mean, that's the name, that's the government's signature. Most of them are ministers and ministers of this government. I don't know now. Mr Minister, would you have defined yourself to the fact that the employees and employees of the National Assembly from Saturday to Sunday continuously spent 18 hours in chess together in order to hold that meeting where the mini-State coup took place? I think that the Chairman of the Committee and also the President of the National Assembly should therefore also be criminally accountable. Where do we live? I think so! And in German KZ lager, people didn't work together for 18 hours. Yeah, that's what's happening to us! And I'll be kind of personal. Last night I was on a shift, I was working, I was reading this long-term care law. I don't know. Don't you have a legal job on the government? And there was a lady who worked with us in the Legislative and Legal Service, with a doctorate, who was in charge of the health sector, a secretary of state in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. I mean, I've never seen anything like it in my life! And I've been here for seven years in the National Assembly, and believe me, I read every marriage thoroughly. So many laws, so many over 40 pages, if I put on the same font, justified criticism of the Legal and Legal Service. And then the sun came up in Ljubljana and I went for a walk. And I'm going past the fax machine and it says, "Stanislav Strašek, June 30, 1991, North Society." One person, of many, is quite a few who sacrificed their lives for this independent Slovenia. But what's happening to us is that you were a candidate, not just a disgrace to the rule of law, is, I don't know, a blast against these people. Yeah, it's actually happening to us here! There's this empty pathetic thing that you're also going to one of the proponents that I asked Suki to give me a headache pill. This is happening to us, and we actually have to deal with it. Yes, a coup d'état. We are now in a state from which we wanted to escape 30 years ago. Okay, there's no Milosevic, there's John Janez Janša. Here we are. That's why I'm going to support this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, get Lydia Divac Mirnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	President, thank you so much for your word. Yes, it rarely happens that the three of us are Mariborians; after Dr. Trček I and then “our dear Lydia”. A little bit to spice up to break this other positional monotonousness, which I estimate is true, but today is really not right, often malicious, and it descends into the field of personal discredits. And remember how we started this session today even with personal discredits. Now Mrs. Servant's not in there, maybe he's listening in his office. She has now reiterated that the distinguished Minister should not even sit in the Ministry's office. Well, look what these words are to a member of the government! And this is not only offensive to him, to his person, but also to all the actual Slovenian citizens who perform this service of goalkeepers, receptors and so on; especially during this period when these people still have to check the conditions, it is said that if people meet the conditions of the PCT. But this is this political culture, this morality you mentioned so many times in the opposition today? Look, the other way around. Now it really saddens me that Mrs. Servant is gone, because she's probably going to say something if she listens. That she's sitting with the President of the Court of Auditors on a coffee bar, that's super moral and politically highly responsible! And after reporting to the media, they're even talking about open court procedures. Don't be silly, come on! Now I'm going to go a little bit in a row because I listened to 90 percent of this debate. Ambassador Koprivc, he can't get past this reflection when he mentions these communist myths and so on. Mr Koprivc, because I am already liquid to myself, I admit that I always remember this worship of yours along with your leader and with Mr Jew before this famous monument of Kidric. We all know what happened to the Slovenian people, Kidric. He was a rookie of the bloody revolution. Look, on his orders, all those on behalf of the Central Committee of the Communist Party went to the other side, because, of course, they were ideological opponents. That's what you're bowing to. And now you're talking about some communist myths. I don't know who you're talking about. Mrs Heferle, I am pleased – she also mentioned me several times in her position, but we are going first. Today, Mrs. Hefferle, you've been explaining some Roman rivers, some Roman rivers you've been explaining. On the other hand, our famous Roman law professor, Janez Kranjec, as far as I know, did not support this constitutional judge – so inescapably, but because you just referred to these Roman rivers. And whoever is silent, according to you, attaches, in the context of this interpolation, as you attach to these eyes. That's how you set up your thesis. I still don't think anyone who's silent is admitting anything. You, as a lawyer, would say that you have legal knowledge, that's unequivocal, you know that. Then why are you fooling around here? I really don't get it. The silence under Roman law had no effect on the party, so in referring to the Minister's silence, I believe that he will say something today, and that is simply not correct on your part, Mrs Heferle. You mentioned me in the beginning with incorrectness – yes, who writes your views. Please! I always write for every plenary session as a working body, all by myself. In the final stage, I wrote five publicist books, which is why I have one view of Pač, despite the lack of time, I am happy to write it, and I am also behind these words. [[…]] I don't know who's writing or speaking to your Members. We've also seen fiascos like swaps, I don't know, millions with billions, let's say, but I'm not going to talk about names now. As far as the support of Minister Dikaucic is concerned. Look, it'll show up at the vote. What kind of support are you talking about now? It will show up today at the vote. Why are you so worried? Why? It's true at the end of the day that every interpellation has collapsed into your dust. I know you're afraid this one's gonna blow your mind, too. It's probably a kind of internal pain, anger, but that's the way it is. As for the empty ministerial chairs, I don't know, Mrs. Hefferle, you know very well that there is a government visit to Pomur tomorrow. This extremely working government has practically visited all statistical regions, followed by a visit to Pomurje tomorrow. And some ministers are already in the field today because they're just working. I am pleased that Mr Sarec is with us today. When he was prime minister, our Maribor congregation did not cross the threshold once. There's this difference in this work. Ministers today, the current governments are already on the ground, although the official visit is not until tomorrow. That's why they're not here today, and that's why I don't know, you're talking about some support. [[…]] Now, as for the support of us Members here, I have never had a problem expressing my support for fellow Members such as my colleague Breznik, who was also dealt with in suspicious circumstances on that highway there – I publicly supported him. I also supported our current Minister of Vision because I think those listeners were illegal at the time, and even then, in that context of that conversation 16 years ago, after my assessment, he did nothing illegal. As for today's clear support for Minister Dikaucic, I have already said in my position, and I will further elaborate on it. Mrs Heferle, as you say for the Minister, should respond to the decisions of the Government and so on. You are well aware that the Government has its legal office and is not now under the authority of the Minister to judge the legality of government decisions; this is simply not within his jurisdiction. This is again one of the irregularities. And how should he respond to the decisions of the Government, which are supported by the legal government? On what basis should it be advertised? He doesn't have that power. As I have said, Mr Dikaucič has probably already been exhausted in his reply after my assessment, he will respond if necessary, I believe that he has not yet felt the talk about what Mr Koprivc said about some communist myths – I would not have responded to that because we have not talked, in fact not at all, about what interpretation should be talking about, about his responsibilities as minister. That's not what this was about. I'd like to say more now because I listened to you. You spoke to these European Delegated Prosecutors about this famous temporaryity. I believe that you have also read the Government's opinion on this temporary proposal to appoint these two prosecutors to take advantage of this possibility, provided for in the EU Council Regulation 1939 of 2017, is four years old a regulation whereby, in certain cases, the State may propose another prosecutor as a new European Delegated Prosecutor. It's not that hard to understand if you read it twice, three times. If you don't understand the time dimension now, it's not my fault that I'm discussing this, but it's you who don't understand this time dimension, I see it. Where do I see her? The national part of the procedure, as was said, was not completed in accordance with the Law on State Prosecutors. We are in the rule of law and, as a result, we now have a temporary appointment of these two European state prosecutors. According to my information, the matter was before the Supreme Court, and it had not yet assessed the admissibility of the review of the procedure, not only to make a substantive decision on this procedure. And maybe, what if we have a third call from the D.A.? Only in this interim proposal has the Government taken this opportunity to inform the European Chief Prosecutor without any further need for the European Public Prosecutor's Office's services, and, if necessary, to propose a new European Delegated Prosecutor. Give it to yourself, fellows, and there will probably be no seduction and unnecessary re-explanation of this. What is really the use of this temporary solution to say this in white? Until the Government submits to the European Public Prosecutor's Office a new proposal for candidates to be selected on the basis of a legitimate and transparent selection process from a sufficient number of professional and independent candidates. The government is likely to assess the need to propose other candidates. I read well in the position, and you read article 71 of the State Prosecutor's Act, which states that a list of three candidates for one city must be drawn up. First, a list of six candidates for two European Delegated Prosecutors must be proposed by law. This was not the case in this procedure, as it also clearly states. However, as regards the proposal to replace state prosecutors, here Mrs Heferle agreed with my statement, but she was not paying attention to anything. When I said that the Ministry of Justice had not proposed at the time of Minister Dikaucič, it kept it in the works until the interpretation. Until the interpolation. Until then, Minister Kozlovich was the one who sent proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors to the Government, but could be informed in the meantime, and would know that Minister Dikaucič, after responding to the interpretation, has actually submitted new proposals for the appointment of prosecutors. So he's already done it. In my position, however, I spoke about Mrs Liljana Kozlovich, who was in office, as the holder of the function of the Minister of State, who made proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors, and the Minister made his proposals in the period following the reply to your interpretation, and you can probably verify that for yourself. I'd still like to say that I'm really worried about our state's attorney. But not in this context that we're talking about. Nevertheless, I think that the Minister in his capacity in this area is doing well in his role and that these proposals, which have been murmuring against the Government, will be renegotiated on them. But what do I want to tell you? This incident that took place at the U.S. Attorney's Office, and here, look at the mega scandal when data, classified data, the U.S. Attorney's Office. But here you have been very stingy in your concern in the opposition. You may have sung one sentence at the time of disclosure or even been quiet, so now talking about some silence by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions is not correct. I am now very concerned that this data from the Special Prosecutor's Office has been rumbling all the way to the worst mafia or criminal association in the Balkans, which you should be worried about, and here you should raise your voices a little bit more in your other public appearances. I think that, under the leadership of Minister Dikaucic, his tasks in the context of the appointment of state prosecutors are ongoing, there is no doubt about it, no delay, no delay, no delay. And this, for the conclusion of this part, when you were talking about some criminal cases around the minister who started spinning somehow, appeared when he was doing other jobs in his previous services. Look, I'm giving you a very simple answer to these really depressed accusations. I'm running an investigative committee now, and I'm actually closing it where the former mayor of Maribor is said to have served as the mayor of Maribor at the time, hanging 24 criminal cases. 24 criminal cases! They all turned out to be unfounded, even illegal. In the final stage, I also like to mention this case because it actually talks about what you know can happen in the context of justice if somehow you're not on the right thing if someone calls you a second-class citizen. I had a house-to-house investigation in my previous press service. At that time, all the media wrote extensively that there was a house investigation in Kalokh and so on, but that house investigation also proved illegal. Please don't bring up any matters that are not concerned with the interpretation of the minister's function. I appreciate the malicious instigation of every living thing you've done today, and it has nothing to do with the interpolation. How much butter someone has on his head — I mean this proverb — when you don't even know how these procedures started when you don't know who initiated them. You know even less how they're gonna end up, unless you have a brownie with the judges, and you know this between you, if there's an expert like you who goes to coffee with the judges, and then you discuss what the decisions will be. In this respect, the Minister, as he himself explained in his reply to the interpolation, has unlimited support, is a good minister, a working minister. This is where you steal his time. He has a lot to do until the end of his term of office, so please be a constructive opposition in this Slovenian country at least at the end of his term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Comrade Kaloh, I wanted to replicate the first part when you pointed out that you were acting a bit ignorant, naive, that what some goalkeepers in public administration are talking about and so on, which in some way have to meet certain conditions in order to be able to occupy a job. It's pure truth, you know. Mr, who is suitable for a minister in the Janšev government, would not be suitable for a secretary, not for a goalkeeper, if you want, not for a cook, not for a secretary, not for any job in the public administration or public administration, because the condition for the occupation of the job has confirmed impunity. Mr. Dikauccich doesn't have this certificate. Now the other thing is, I think it's a shame to waste time, really, because we're bored with these citizens and citizens, but you're exposing some worship to the slaughterhouses, Kidric and so on. I don't know what this has to do with this particular topic, but I can answer you again if necessary. We social Democrats are proud of the past, we are proud of the anti-fascist fight and the anti-fascist victories, and we worship each year, as you say, at all partisan celebrations, we mark these events. And also Boris Kidrič is one of Slovenia's important politicians in the past, he was the first president of the post-war national government, he was a great anti-fascist and organizer of the liberation movement, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	My friend, Replica Replica please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	So we are not ashamed of that, but today, unlike your President, Janez Janša, who was an active member of the Communist Union, denies or celebrates another idea. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Comrade Koprivc, a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Among other things, it gives this government status in the public interest to organisations that celebrate and declare themselves fascist. That's disturbing to my mind, but it doesn't matter that we're always opening up the same darkness because you're already broken. Literally! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Look, I suggest that you stick to this and that you are respectful in this debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Respectable that you are. It's a very small request, because it's nothing like that. Procedurally Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Mr President, look, you just sat there to preside, but you didn't even hear what Member Kaloh said, which came out of the darkness completely and said exactly the things the Member has responded to. So please don't jump into the floor unless you know how the debate was, because you were obviously on your way to the hall, and you couldn't even theoretically hear and see [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	My colleague, please don't lecture me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	No, but, really, you're falling for us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	I've been watching the debate all along. Excuse me? I have been monitoring the debate all the time, but as for the substantive matters and the management of the session, and I will be the leader, you won't have to do anything. Take care of your own debate. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	But you can't do this. Listen. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Yes, you can. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	Because he was responding to what Kaloch was saying directly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	We're moving on. Procedurally, Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Mr. Tanko, you're so funny, really. You didn't listen, and now you're getting involved, and that's sick of everything you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Marko Koprivc, second warning. [[advertising from the hall]] The text is given by Tina Hefferle, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll go back to the debate. I must admit that I was almost looking forward to the debate of my colleague Kaloh, given that no one on the side of the coalition – not even the minister – is practically discussing today, but his debate was very empty, substantively empty. Comrade Kaloh, since you're a lawyer, I was hoping for a tiny bit more content from your side. It grieves me, as a citizen, that you are going to the defence of the Minister of Justice, where we report illegal acts to him, where we point out that the Minister is suspected of being a criminal service, that you are going to defend the Minister by doing so, since there has been some kind of extraordinary action recently at the Special Prosecutor's Office. You are answering the allegations of a crime on the grounds that a crime has also been committed elsewhere. Please! This does not go anywhere if, of course, we want to maintain some political level and if we want to defend the existence of the rule of law – do we not, Comrade Kaloh? I've been writing down your debate very carefully. And now I'm gonna go from start to finish. You're saying there's some monotonousness on our opposition side today. Yes, on the one hand, I agree with you. So far, we have discussed only opposition Members alongside you, and neither has the Minister. And yes, there is monotonousness, when we always point out in one voice all the time, that there are explicit violations, that there are legal violations, and on the other hand we do not get completely any counter-argument based either on some political justification or on some legal justification. Yes, it's the monotonousness of today, but it's better for us than it is for you, Comrade Kaloh. You say, personal discredits. Yes, I have already said from the outset, the personal characteristics of the Minister of Justice are those that can justify his political responsibility and sanction political responsibility. And personality traits. And if you don't want to talk about it, then it says more about you than it does about us, which exposes the fact that the Minister was a non-paymenter of the municipal contribution, the fact that the Minister is a suspect of a crime of tax evasion and of falsification of business documents, the fact that the Minister as Minister of Justice is a bit of a supporter of the Government's decision that does not give effect to the ruling of the Administrative Court. In short, this is of course a personal discredit for you, but in fact it is a matter of essential personality qualities that the Minister of Justice has, which make it inappropriate for this function. Very empty and clear was that discussion, or those eyewitnesses, when you were reading to fellow Servants — that comparison with the doorman in court. A perfectly simple logic is behind this comparison. A court-martial or, if you wish, all professional members of the court, or anywhere else in the ministries, or in the municipality, must submit a certificate of impunity and a certificate of not being in criminal proceedings at the time of the application for employment. And since the Minister could not submit this certificate because she was in court, Mrs Slug gave – and I am not her lawyer now, but I understand it this way – Mrs Slug gave a very legitimate comparison that even the goalkeeper could not be in court. Because I wouldn't meet the conditions. Because he can't submit a certificate that he's not in a criminal investigation. Pika. It's so simple. You say that you are happy when I said that Roman saying that "whosoever is silent when he should be able to speak seems to be fastening" and you continued to throw me Professor Krajnc, if I was silent when I did not support him as a constitutional judge. No, colleague Kaloh, that's not true. I then made my will clear; I surrounded “no”. And that's not silence, and that's not attachment. Today it is the other way around; the minister is silent, the coalition is silent. When a representative of the coalition speaks, he has an empty debate, a substantive empty debate. Ergo, you might think you're attaching to all our eyes that we have against the minister. So, colleague Kaloh, I thought you were right or -- I don't know if I'm going to be offensive, I apologize in advance -- a good lawyer, and it bothered me when you said that silence in Roman law had no effect. Yes, please, silence is still in every law today, even in Slovenian law, consequences! The late judgment in the courts shall be issued on the basis of the silence of the counterparty. I believe that you do not know this if you have not worked in court or have had no experience with this, but the silence of the defendant means that it seems that a delayed favourable judgment is being established and issued. This means silence, colleague Kaloh, and if we're already exact, we're going to get some legal expertise. I sincerely apologize to you for prejudging that you didn't write your position yourself, so my public apology. But given the content, because I listened carefully to you about your position when you represented the position of the SDS Group, then I was even more disappointed if you wrote it, because, as has already been said, as your debate was a matter of substance, you did not respond to any of the concrete perceptions that fly to Minister Dikaucic. If you've listened to me in my opening statement, then I believe you haven't, because you wouldn't say that the interpretation is based on some fragile foundation, so I've presupposed that you didn't write your own views, but okay, as I said, I'm sorry. When you asked yourself or when you asked us about the Minister's support, you pointed out this in your debate and said very clearly that you support the Minister; yes, okay, because it makes sense that coalition partners are bound by a coalition treaty, where it says that interpellations against your ministers will not be supported. This is a different kind of support, like that support I've been talking about all day since 9:00 a.m. The content support is important, Comrade Kaloh. And now, if you and your coalition colleagues don't get enough of the content of stating facts, arguments, counter-arguments to us, then it's not support for me. Of course, you will press the right button when you vote, I don't doubt it at all, but not because Minister Dikaucič would not be responsible for all the actions we read to him. Not because; but because you are bound by a coalition treaty. And also this is kind of very fair and believe me, I've already received quite a few responses from the public, because people understand it, don't worry. The Minister's response to the government's decisions, you said our findings were unfounded, because the government has its own legal job and then how will the Minister not know what's going to happen? I was merely citing what Mr Dikaucič stated in his response to the interpretation, Comrade Kaloh. The Minister wrote this down, and I will read again: “The Ministry of Justice consults other ministries and draws attention to certain problems regarding respect for human rights or fundamental freedoms in the proposals for regulations.” I don't understand your clumsy twirling. I have not read anything else to the minister than what he himself says is his duty, but he does not, because he supports the unconstitutional decisions that the Government adopts and violates human rights and fundamental freedoms – the Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled that this is the case. In short, the minister himself says that the Ministry of Justice plays a consultative role. Maybe it would be more, I don't know, striking if we could get a little bit more prepared for these counter-arguments. Now this is essential, which I also hoped you would have a little bit more content, but you have read, selectively read, the articles in the regulation setting out the functioning of European prosecutors. You say that this temporary dimension is, of course, established, according to you, in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and in the European Union Regulation and that the Government is only temporarily familiar with these two candidates, doing nothing wrong. Comrade Kaloh, you have afforded yourself a manoeuvre that this government allows itself to have a virtually large part of its mandate, this is a selective reading of laws or normative grounds, in this case a regulation of the European Union. If I complete you with this reading regarding the appointment and discharge of European Delegated Prosecutors. Article 17 of the Regulation speaks of this, writes as follows: you have forgotten to read it: "A Member State, without the consent of the European Chief Prosecutor, cannot resolve the European Delegated Prosecutor or take disciplinary action against him for reasons relating to his or her powers under this Regulation." [[…]] You said between the lines that the government estimates that there will be a need for new prosecutors. You're obviously prejudging that these two prosecutors are either going to either violate their duty or not meet those normative conditions, of course, of a professional nature, because you're just prejudging that you're going to replace them. This is more than presumptuous, given that the State Prosecutor's Council has considered these two candidates to be the most professional candidate. Without your English exercise, which was initially advocated by the President of the Government, if you don't speak English, then it turned out that you know English, there was something else good, then it turned out that the President of the Government understands the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office as a post office law, and it turned out once again that he is very clear in the provisions. In short, you're a little clumsy to use both the State Attorney's Act and the Regulation. You have not even read this, Comrade Kaloh, but when can the European Delegated Prosecutor and who really be dismissed. The Regulation states that the College of the European Public Prosecutor shall resolve the European Delegated Prosecutor if it finds that it no longer complies with the requirements of the second paragraph, which speaks of competence and competence, if it is unable to carry out its duties anymore – this can be imagined, I don't know, sick, becomes functionally incompetent, whatever – or that it has committed a worse infringement. And here lies the rabbit in that sentence you said that the government is already assessing that there will be a need for new prosecutors. Obviously – what? Do you estimate that they will not perform their work in a quality manner or that they will be in serious breach of their responsibilities or how? I don't understand. In short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – your government, colleague Kaloh – has absolutely nothing to do with the resolution of European Delegated Prosecutors. It is the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office that decides and the Member State, without the consent of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, cannot in any way influence or cause a discharge. Once again, it can be resolved under strictly predetermined clear conditions that I have just read. So much for this time component of some temporaryity, some temporary appointment, or a temporary introduction, although I have already mentioned in the introduction, it is very illogical for you to get to know something temporarily. We could have heard it today. Then you'll just forget, or whatever, if you've met for a while. But anything in this government is possible, even an irrevocably retired minister is still a minister. So much for this time dimension. However, as regards the national candidature procedure, which you have also mentioned, colleague Kaloh, which is, of course, defined in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, is more specifically referred to in Article 71d, if we are talking about European Delegated Prosecutors, the law is very clear. And once again, although I repeat myself, I will explain that maybe someone else will understand. The Sectional Choice is made by the State Prosecutor's Council, that is clear, and its proposal is made to the Ministry. The Ministry is just continuing to convey this to the government and the government is getting to know each other. Pika. And nowhere in article 71d of the State Prosecutor's Act, which regulates the procedure and conditions for the appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor, can you find an explicit requirement that the State Prosecutor's Council should give a list of candidates to the Ministry or to the Government, anywhere. You are now referring to this famous third delivery, which says that it is for the procedure by calling for a proposal to appoint a European Delegated Prosecutor to make a reasonable application of the preceding article; the previous article is an article referring to the European Prosecutor's Candidate Procedure. Now, the hell with the details, I've already said that before today. What's the use, Comrade Kaloh? The meaningful application of a regulation or a specific article is when something that should be regulated in lex specialis is not regulated under this Article, which provides and regulates the European Delegated Prosecutor. Only then shall the provisions apply mutatis mutandis. And you forget that the European Union Regulation is also binding on our country. The Regulation of the European Union, which speaks of the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, including the Delegated Prosecutors, is equivalent to the legal act of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. And the regulation clearly states that the College shall appoint European Delegated Prosecutors on a proposal from the European Prosecutor. The College may refuse the proposed person if it fails to comply with the criteria set out in the Article prior to that which speak of expertise. Nowhere in the regulation will you find a mandate or a notice that the College or the European chief prosecutor chooses between the candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, you will not find this anywhere. Nowhere. Therefore, this meaningful use that you refer to cannot apply to these lists, which you have been singing for a year and a half in practice, under the argument a contrario. I don't know how else to say it like that, Counselor Kaloh. The meaningful application of a provision is not the same as the literal application; once again, it is not the same, it cannot be the same because, if not, this article, which provides for the procedure for the appointment of Delegated Prosecutors, would put it that way. -Exactly. No, no, no. However, it states, “useable” means that the preceding article applies only in matters which are not explicitly and precisely defined. These are, if we are very precise, these are matters concerning the publication of the call for applications, true procedural nature, matters concerning the rejection of late or incomplete candidates, again procedural nature, and matters relating to the intervention of candidates to the State Prosecutor's Council – again procedural nature. And don't cheat. The Regulation of the European Union, which establishes and defines the European Public Prosecutor's Office, gives European Delegated Prosecutors a special status, separate and very different from that of the European Prosecutors. Let's be exact when we use terms. Because I believe that the people accompanying us are not as good as you, Mr Kaloh, they may be a little less familiar. But the European Delegated Prosecutor is something other than the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor is subject to a completely different appointment procedure than the European Prosecutor. This is an irrefutable fact and all this legal exercise, as we have already heard today, which you are going on about these lists and I don't know what, once there were three candidates, now there are six. This is the interpretation you are drawing, I do not know, from the fifth and very arbitrary application of both the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Regulation of the European Union. Once we agree that in our country the right is applied selectively and arbitrarily, just as the moment suits anyone, which this government has proven several times to be such an interpretation of the rule of law, then I fear for the existence of our rule of law for real. Comrade Kaloh, you have no argument in anything. This debate on the procedure – I am still prepared for it, and I am prepared for you with the ease of reasoning and accurate reading of the normative basis, in all your statements and views you have on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik has the word and will be discussed by the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye. I'd say hello to the minister, but he's not here. So nice greetings, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Six hours has already been proven, with arguments, all three points that have been tabled by the proponents, we are actually proving in this interpretation, and we are getting back some populist blah-blah things by Mr Kaloh. And I'm not even going to look back on that, because she's out of touch because Tina just told me everything. But it's interesting, but these tactics are interesting, to say the defense tactics that SMC has clearly chosen, because they are very similar to the Fridays at Minister Kustec, czech, as if we're interpreting it because it's a woman. Today, Minister Dikauccich, we have to interpret it because the man is in this government. I suggest you change your counsellor for a little bit. But it was now such a comical contribution that may not have been the most appropriate. But whatever. I'm actually worried about these statements. But they're worried because that's all there is to it, to say the opposite of what we've been talking about here for six hours now. And what's even more paradox is that we're not interpreting this minister because there's a man in this government, but because in any other government or in any dream, he couldn't be a minister. Never and never, since she's never confirmed her impunity or that she's in a criminal investigation, I couldn't bring it. It's just a fact. Even in one of the positions, specifically in the position of the SDS, you have made it clear to the proponents that we have already thrown Mr Dikaucič at the hearing session as obvious, so to speak. But yes, of course we did, because he and the candidate shouldn't have become, let alone a minister. This is essentially the paradox of all these six-hour debates today. The greater the disaster, the more likely it will remain, the minister. And interestingly, all of this, if this gentleman remains a minister today, is also a disaster for the political standards that this government has established over the year and a half. By the time you named this Minister Dikaucic [[…]] Can I ask you, President, if you can ask your colleagues to go out and debate, because I'm really disturbed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	When this Mr. Dikaucič became Minister, in less than a month it happened that Mr. Ange Erbežnik resigned from his State Secretary's office and Mr. Marjan Dikaucič said at that time, quote, "You have different views on the management of the Department and the role of the Secretary of State, so he resigned." End of story. That was the statement Minister Dikaucič made. It has also been heard that this Mr Ange Erbežnik has resigned, because the new Minister knows little about what he is actually supposed to do as a minister or – to translate – that he is incompetent to perform this function. The fact that he is incompetent, of course, has already been pointed out at the hearing, and we are warning this all the time today. Because the minister is so a little bit carried along, at least in what is said today, since he is now more than five hours quiet or not even here in the hall. In fact, as Minister, of course as Justice Minister and as a full-fledged member of the Government, he is also responsible for unconstitutional government decisions that unduly interfere with human rights and fundamental freedoms at night weekends. Of course, I have already said that 18 people in this government are terrorising this nation with unconstitutional decisions. Why? Because they do not hope to come here to the National Assembly and bring the law to the table, which would, of course, be the basis for us to intervene in human rights and fundamental freedoms. And that is why it is simply, Minister, that you are guilty because you have a responsibility both by law and by the constitution, because you, again and again as Justice Minister, decide to remain silent when you should be very loud. And you're not the only minister in this government who decides to remain silent because that's what you choose, and that's absolutely wrong as far as LMSH is concerned. Now, about the European Delegated Prosecutors, where you are essentially relativising this fact that there is nothing to do with this, nothing is wrong if they are not named. Tina's already talked about this argument repeatedly today, so I won't say it again, because she's a lawyer, and she's very good at it, unlike me, who I'm not. I would just say that, as far as these European Delegated Prosecutors are concerned, the LMŠ is a legal hooligan act and nothing else. And whether these two prosecutors like some government president or not. It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for these matters. And if his Prime Minister decides he doesn't like it, then the Minister of Justice has to react, and unfortunately he's not, because he decided to remain silent. Someone would call it spineless. Then the third suspicion that this gentleman should never stand, let alone a minister, is the suspicion of a crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. And it's hanging over his head. He's still here. She sits in this room today – well, right now, not otherwise, but okay – and she's on the phone. And so, a little mockingly, if, like, you're saying these six hours 50, which is still to the end of this point, you're just saying, because I'm staying anyway, which is actually a laugh; a laugh to all of us here and also to all of you who are watching and listening to us today. I'm sorry. And these are the political standards set by this government. If you remember, in the government of Marjana Sarca, the ministers resigned because of inappropriate communication. Today, we have a minister, and this particular minister today, Mr Dikaucic, who is suspected of a crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents, is also a minister, and coalition members from five veins, at least in their positions, are drawing some arguments as to why it is right and wrong or why it is not wrong. And every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia knows that if someone is a suspect in a crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents, something was probably wrong! But these standards under this government are obviously such that this gentleman can continue to be a minister, although in no other nor would he become a candidate for a minister. Now, if we look at his work, which he has succeeded in these five months since the Minister, has done, we need to say this statistic: nine meetings of the Justice Committee in this house took place at this time. How many times has Minister Dikauchič been present? Not once! He was never present at meetings of the Justice Committee. So what is this gentleman doing in this position? I rhetorically asked myself, of course. Now there is also a notariat in the Žalec, which has actually been imprisoned illegally – both Nik and Tina have already explained, and I will not repeat the arguments – that would be the reason why this gentleman is no longer Minister of Justice. But no, he's still the Minister of Justice. A little more statistics, as far as his work is concerned, to continue in this context. He didn't make any proposals for a state prosecutor. None. Thus he was not present on any committee, nor did he make any proposals for the State Prosecutor's Office. He didn't even make any more suggestions if I paraphrase an NPU lady who is now even the boss. He hasn't made any more proposals for the Attorney General. And that's basically a mirror of his work. Now I understand why this Mr Ange Erbežnik, then his State Secretary, who was less than a month old, resigned. I understand. Because he obviously knew some things, some things that the Members had been silenced. Because otherwise, you can't imagine why someone would step down after a month. Of course, then only one question can follow from all the statistics I have just listed. Do you know what you are doing in this government? What are you doing to all of us? What are you doing to our grandchildren? 15 billion poofs, lowering all standards of integrity, competence, expertise, not even talking about the demolition of democracy and the destruction of the rule of law. Decision-making, instigating disputed members in the KPK, human rights brutality. I think you're here now for a thousand 300 appointments. I think it's a little less. And in the government of Marjana Sharca, you're in the same time period, the right year and a half, you've apparently switched, I think, 275 people. You're a thousand 300! Me? In LMŠ we call it human brutalism because it doesn't matter competence because it doesn't matter expertise, because it's important that someone sneezes. Obviously. Dear Minister, all these moves you're making in the government, which part of you, are all the moves that are destroying this country. These are the moves that destroy the future of our children. Why? Because you're taking us to some other time and because you're taking us to some time that we didn't agree on 30 years ago. And then they were united that we didn't want them anymore. And I'm not going to talk about the media yet about the pearls, and I'm not going to talk about all this. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're back. You're just, unfortunately, the minister's only on paper, so at least that's what your statistics show. Obviously so that you are – the minister. That's what I call Noah's politics. And all this deliberate interpretation of the legislation is actually a slap in the face of the rule of law. And you're a justice minister who, of course, should never have become one. All you do is destroy us all and lead to dictatorship. I wish you wouldn't be a minister from today on. That is why, of course, I will also support this interpretation that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbich, he'll be followed by a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greeting to the Minister, Secretary of State and everyone who's here! I must admit that I respect every Member's political debate and, however further, when I make a few words, I do not criticise their debate. But I do have a specific point, and it is only right that I should say it in the introduction. You know what is somehow now respected by the proposaler, which often involves – which is also right – and makes it clear that the coalition does not debate. Yeah, sorry, it's not my turn! My colleague Kaloh, who was ahead of me, was the first of a kind of coalition to have had no opportunity to discuss after some timetable. Therefore, it turns out here that those who tell us what we are talking about by members of the coalition, that it is somehow empty content, are quite the opposite. And what I find extremely disturbing in this context, when a man listened in detail to a respected colleague mentioned by the proposer, as he explained, I felt that the interpretation had been filed against his colleague Kaloh, not the minister. I believe, and also with her knowledge and activity in the National Assembly and the Home Committee, she has shown a great deal of knowledge in this area, as well as others, but we have a political debate. This political debate is not some kind of round table for specific legal content, that somehow a Member who, in some well-intentioned performance, has presented his view, his view that you are then being subjected to so-called professional criticism, according to the applicant's words. Here, then, one wonders where we are now Members of Parliament alone with regard to our opinion, as regards our position, which we express through political debate. Even when I continue to actively engage in this debate, I do not want this to be put in any position of mentor, reviewer or, in any way, of my political debate and of my view, of my position, which is or is not in line with what is proposed by this kind of legitimate procedure. I hope I've made myself clear enough to introduce myself. As far as the rest of this is concerned. It is also on the part of this proposer – I must admit – that I am a little surprised because he has often been exposed to the Minister's confession: a violation, and this is a violation of the law. Yes, but, Your Honor, we have said many times in this national council that no Member, no Prosecutor, no one can provide, identify and thus claim: legal infringements. And that is also stated by the right teaching person; yes, then indeed political debates, forgive – where do they now have this weight, the city and so forth? In fact, it goes in some way to the liking of those who we are speaking in the opinion of each individual that they are our potential voters. And I'm going to say a few words about the last end of this interpolation. The discussion was also about the notariat of Žalac and similar, but no words so far – which has been an interesting discussion for me, I must admit this – has not been said that the key role in any process of notariat in the Republic of Slovenia is in the role of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. And I'm going to end up here and I'm not going to talk about it anymore, because as much as we touch this kind of reading activity to the current minister, I'm going to allow two plating medals. I'll allow it. But through political debate, let go into some definitions that are decidedly to be applied this way; you know, there's some kind of jurisdiction that goes beyond here. But it's like, as mentioned above, a so-called political matter. What I would still point out when it was also read to my colleague — empty. Yes, but what is different to most debaters so far, I do not say all of them, most of them by opposition debaters, because many words have been addressed mainly to the Minister in the direction of personal degradation. Do you not think that if the power of the Member's debate is personal degradation – yes, that does not mean that there are any arguments? As for the so-called individual areas, I will touch the next. You know, I'm a little surprised at the final stage, and I'm also disappointed at the Members of this National Assembly who argued with such certainty, but what kind of justice minister is he if he hasn't been to the Justice Committee in the last five months. And this is the criterion, the key to the Department of Justice's work? I will devote a little time to this in my debate, but to the introduction of the following. I think that's incorrect. If some members of the Justice Committee would like to see the Minister, this is their personal wish, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make this very clear for the work of the Home Committee and for the work of the National Assembly, and it is obvious in this case that this political debate must also be read clearly. Then let the public know, in case of accidental follow-up. 235. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speaks of the participation of the Government in the work of the National Assembly. What's he saying? “In the event of absence or detention, the Minister of State may be replaced by the Secretary of State.” What's the problem here now? I don't understand. For the proper functioning of the ministry, in this case, which is responsible for a legislative branch of power, I think this should be clear to everyone. Is that why you're interpreting? But in a political sense, everyone can interpret it differently. The following sentence is added: “At a meeting of the working body, the government is represented by the minister, the secretary of state, the chairman of the body,” and so on. “In the event of absence or detention, the Minister shall be replaced by the Secretary of State.” Again, this provision of the Rules of Procedure. So much for talking about the emptiness of any defense or of our thinking. We haven't even had a chance to say a few words or more. As far as the Minister's statement is concerned, it is the proposal for a municipal contribution. And here I'm going to allow myself a few more words. This is an institution which is solely for the benefit of the municipality, which, by its internal acts, calculates this contribution, is said to be purely municipal income. How is it in the Minister's case, if I may say so, more like Marjan Dikaucič, who appears as a citizen in a particular administrative process? He appeared as a citizen and intended only to obtain the right to individual construction, it is said to obtain a specific building permit. The current legislation, the Construction Law, which is in force, provides in great detail that a municipal contribution must also be paid before the individual building permit is issued. I think that's clear to everyone. How does this work in a specific administrative unit, if I'm not mistaken, is this the administrative unit of Šentjur? In this case, it is not a problem for the citizen, in which case, Marjan Dikaucič. Because the fact is that the administrative authority has issued a legal building permit, even though no prior municipal contribution has been paid. And that's the citizen's fault? Excuse me, even in the political debate, it is convenient to refer to some things now – I believe it is convenient. It's convenient. If the administrative authority neglects its fundamental duty and attention, respect for the letter of the law, then do not glue any, if I may say so, objections to the citizen, if he has taken this matter kindly. This does not mean, however, that he is not prepared to do so in any other way. What's interesting is the following thing about this unfortunate municipal contribution. The following information – and no one wants to comment or hear about it – is that on his property, I am talking about citizen Marjan Dikaucic, despite his knowledge as the owner of the property, some things that have made it impossible to use property peacefully. None of us care whether we want to hear this or not. Here this stone stumbles, or that bullet that collapses, unfolds in the following. I must admit that I am pleased that this matter has been resolved in agreement, but I would certainly be the same in such or otherwise, if Marjan Dikaucič, as a citizen, was still a normal citizen or if he is as now as a minister. I think we need to be correct in such cases, because the importance of property rights must be the same for the citizen as if the citizen accidentally took up a political function, and that is ministerial. A few words, as I mentioned, are also for mere interpretation, given that I am quite prepared to continue, that some Members then receive so-called empty contents. I'll try not to make it empty. For the intro. The fact is that so far there have been no words at all, how or why interpretation has occurred in some legal order. We know that this institution has evolved in French constitutional practice and represents a stronger control weapon than we know of the so-called parliamentary issues. It is a means used only or primarily by the opposition because it wants to exercise its political responsibility aimed at replacing, in this case, a specific minister. I'm still on the theory. Due to the weight and efficiency of the interpolation, it is understandable that interpolation only takes place on important issues relating to the functioning of the individual minister who runs the Ministry in question and should generally raise general questions, rather than a specific act or error. As I have already mentioned, this is how the sense of interpretation is defined in legal terminology. Here is the question of how many of these substantive definitions are in the interpretation of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič. If we just look at the content in these four points, I can only say the following. This function is performed only within five months, says not half a year no, and I think this interpretation is a school case, that the issue of the opposition is not dissatisfaction with the work of the minister, but evident, and I stress the legitimate activity of the opposition as a reflection of the opposition's opposition to this government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why such thinking and attitude? What are the general questions that raise bad decisions and harm to the work of the Minister of Justice, led by Minister Marjan Dikaucič? In normal practice, the work of the Minister and the whole ministry is assessed and criticised after the passing of a slightly longer period of time, but not, as mentioned, after five months of serving as Minister. In an interpretation that has a so-called personal note, I also raise the issue of the circumstances mentioned. They were already known for the first day after the ministerial function — why did this keep them waiting for five months? I don't understand. Or I can understand, for everyone has their own reasons. As it was said, certain eyewitnesses who had a personal note were already known. However, in this context, the following is the case. Here I would really like to make the following very clear and very clear. In the Republic of Slovenia, it is considered that, as long as the guilt is not proven by a judicial decision of the court or administrative authority, a natural or legal person is considered innocent. This applies both to the natural person of Marjan Dikaucič and to Marjan Dikaucič in his role as Minister of Justice. I can agree with the proposalers that such political functions should be subject to somewhat stricter criteria and criteria regarding morality and ethics. Even with that, I have to admit, I kind of agree. However, who says that in his case, with regard to open procedures created at a time when, if I may say so, nothing harmful or offensive, ordinary citizens, there have been things that may have happened after the final decision of those authorities that are obliged to decide – and I am also glad that open procedures are open, and I sincerely hope that they will be completed as soon as possible – they will not get a completely different dimension than those of the interpellation's proponents? I am therefore firmly in the position to wait for the final decision of the open proceedings, and then let us be political judges. In a few words, I have to touch on the political motives behind the appointment of state prosecutors. In this context, I will also allow myself a slightly smaller distance from this. What my colleagues and colleagues have discussed in their debates has been a great deal. My statement to the proponents who wrote in the introduction to point 2 that the number of state prosecutors is steadily falling and so on. You know, I have to admit here that I'm pretty critical, especially in the next direction. Nothing is mentioned, except on the so-called Home Justice Committee, when we consider the annual reports of state prosecutors, that a number of prosecutors leave the prosecutions, in particular have left or leave, mainly because it was later found that a number of skeletons fall from their closets. I hope it's not a malicious word. What is more worrisome and should be really worrying about this part of the so-called legal branch of government, is that some prosecutors are being tricked by a prosecutor who has been pursuing the responsibility of a person in the suspicion of abuse of the position or suspicion of economic crime, then even by a lawyer or advocate of the same person. And then we know what it's like to have these court proceedings seized. This is harmful, and this is worrying, and this should not be happening in the rule of law. As far as the prosecutors are concerned, still a few words. Does the prosecution, by means of its multi-year work, prove solely and solely the legal and criminal profession? And I will not talk about cases, because I am sure that whoever wrote this content is aware of what has been happening in the field of prosecution for the past 30 years by the prosecution itself. Every time we touch on individual cases which are identified in public by disputed errors or by the skirmish of the prosecution's profession, we witness the prosecution's reference to their independence and independence. Politicians or Members of Parliament have often followed this. I am firmly on my own, and I advocate that it is simply necessary to support this, but on this occasion I must also acknowledge my dissatisfaction with the reference of the prosecution, the prosecutors merely to the so-called rights of the prosecution, and their obligation to the State nothing. In a number of works and decisions, we can see that these are cases, namely cases of major economic crime or others, which are harmful to the State, that they abuse their position to the detriment of the State and taxpayers, when they prosecute the perpetrators of economic crime in an ineffective way, even with the support of the media in the context of domestic investigations. Cases go so far that even in public reflective matters also fall due to their procedural errors in court, and what is even more worrying for us — even outdated. I'm going to touch on the case that your respectable colleague Kaloh has also made. It's the latest case. When it became known to the public that important, key information had been leaked by their employees by the prosecution, we witnessed only a brief statement to the public. The one that I have to admit should also be worrying is the following statement. Their statement was: “We always have security preventive measures, but sometimes this is not enough because human factors are at the forefront.” And everyone, both public and political, is simply satisfied with such a finding. What's next? The caravan of prosecutorial autonomy and independence goes on. Of course, we must then ask ourselves how many such leaks of confidential information and data have taken place in the prosecution, how many such abuses have been committed because of the benefit of favouritism make it impossible to effectively prosecute individuals or societies and so on. It is true that we are all aware that this particular case, which was good 14 days ago and has been leaking to the public, has only exposed the most likely number of carefully hidden weaknesses of the prosecution, which are always at the expense of the state, but unfortunately for the benefit of the perpetrators of crimes and other deviant acts. In this particular case, who will be sanctioned in the prosecution, except for the person who did? What about those responsible for preventive measures that do not happen? I do not accept the argument they have given — that such cases are an integral part of each environment. Because in law enforcement, such as the prosecution, this simply cannot happen. The next area related to this interpretation is cooperation in the adoption of legislative proposals with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intervenes in human rights and fundamental freedoms. I can say: a very thoughtful address of the authors of this interpretation and a reflection of today's situation in the field of covida in the country. If I go back to the introductory part of my debate, when I have given a few words to the legal definition of interpolation. I repeat exactly from this title: interpellations are generally invested in the functioning of the individual minister who heads the ministry, and general questions are raised, not a specific act or error. In this reading point, the Minister of Justice is given only and only one concrete case when the Constitutional Court has ruled, as it has ruled. I would also expect the applicants to mention at least a few other cases which would show that the Ministry worked or did not work in areas where more general issues would be raised during the ministry. As it is said, the reference to just one example, which occurred in the first days of the ministry, and nothing else, is, as I mentioned earlier, merely in political accounting with the current government and is only a five-month-old handyman. On this occasion, however, I will mention two other cases that marked the Ministry's non-participation in order to prevent injury mainly to natural persons, and this is in the field of real law, when the Ministry of Justice argued that protection of citizens and creditors was urgently needed. Turns out the Ministry practically abused the National Assembly. That's where I end up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Minister Marjan Dikaucič asked for the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, we'll give it to the proposer first, but the minister called first. He has the same right as you, he's in defense. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Mr Vice-President, you know I have an advantage over the Minister as a proposal. I welcome in advance that the Minister has applied for the floor, but I will only comment briefly on the second debate of the coalition species, by my colleague Verbic. Of course, I will comment, which is why I am here today as a proponent. I'm not giving up any of my own, inherent political debates, colleague Verbic. At first, you were wondering why I've been stressing so much now for more than seven hours that none of you will answer. The first place your parliamentary group took on the list was fourth place, and we are now waiting for practically more than seven hours to hear from you. But don't worry, sooner or later. As far as you're concerned that we've obviously submitted the interpretation, I don't know, too late, why we haven't done it right now, let me tell you that we've filed the interpretation just over two months after Mr Dikaucic's performance, and we would have done it sooner if we knew about the facts that we know about today. I have already pointed out many times today, as a candidate in the hearing before the National Assembly, Minister Dikaucič kept these facts to himself, which we are reading today. So no wonder the procedure of interpolation is long, the minister has 30 days to answer and so on, so we're just here today. If it had been our way, it would have been sooner, or otherwise, if it had been our way, we wouldn't have been at the interpolation, because Minister Dikauchič should have stepped down by himself. You have very much pointed out that Minister Dikaucič is only a citizen in that case of unpaid municipal contributions. This is your legitimate opinion, but the fact is, this is the fact that Minister Dikaucič is not just a citizen. Mr Dikaucič is Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice. As Minister of Justice, there is a duty of due diligence to act legally, in accordance with the laws and not to abandon his duties, those to whom we read them. Let me correct you, no one – at least not me as a proponent – is clear of criminal responsibility, but I suspect him of the crime of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. As I have pointed out many times today, for mature parliamentary democracy, as I hope we want to be, it is a suspicion of the crime services of any kind, especially the harm done by the State represented by Minister Dikaucič, something so gravely burdensome for man that in my opinion this man should not be a representative of the executive branch of power. It's as simple as not saying what. The function of interpolation. When you were wondering about the function of today's interpretation and the political debate that I don't allow in your opinion, or how? On the contrary, my colleague Verbič, in order to make it clear that we are misusing the Institute of Interpellation for some political purposes, for some political points, I have made an explicit effort today to argue not only on political statements but on facts that are legal and factual. I cited the articles violated by the Minister, the laws violated by the Minister, the waivers, the precise suspensions of the duties of the Minister, and that is precisely the spirit of interpretation, the political instrument for the responsibility of the executive branch. In clarifying the evidence, we argue and support it not only with political Flossules, as you do today when defending the Minister, but we support it, as I have already mentioned, also with legal facts. We can't be more than right. This is the work of the opposition and quality interpretation always refers to specific indications that have some serious consequences. The fact that the Commission threatened us with a lawsuit is a serious consequence for our country. The fact that the prosecution's independence and independence are collapsing and breaking is a serious consequence. The fact that it does not respect the decisions of the courts that the Minister of Justice takes the view that he will not execute any judgment is, excuse me, Mr Verbic, a serious consequence for our justice system and for the existence of our rule of law. Just for a little while, since we're in the D.A.'s office. You said, I wrote to myself, Comrade Verbič: “The whole prosecutor is leaving the position because the skeletons fall out of their closets.” Great. Only Minister Dikaucič has the privilege of falling out of his closet as long as we want the skeletons, he won't give up. More than that, he won't be relieved because you're bound by a coalition agreement. Only because of that fact. This – respectable Verbich, I am answering you now because I am very pleased with your debates, because the other is of the coalition – is worrying, is unacceptable. If the Minister has the right to choose his profession on his own, I believe you also allow the Prosecutors to choose their profession independently when, I don't know, they move from the prosecution to the law. And do not deceive, Comrade Verbič, any advocate of a party in a kind of criminal procedure may not have been, if he had previously been in the same proceedings as the prosecutor. Don't fool around. Because it's taken care of by law, by expulsion and so on. Don't fool around. Because you have a reputation as a prosecutor and a reputation as a lawyer. However, as far as your point of view is concerned, the key role of notary in our country is played by the Notary Chamber – okay, but, my colleague Verbic, I have talked about the key role that Mr Minister of Justice plays in the appointment of notaries or in ensuring the continuity of the notary function in a specific area in accordance with the Notariat Act. Not now to twist words and distort facts. The fact is that, in accordance with Article 11 of the Notariat Act, the area that we are talking about all the time today — the lower Saxony area with 42 thousand inhabitants, something more, with the District Court in Žalec — is justified or legally binding that we have a notary there. The minister ignored or failed to fulfill his statutory obligation by allowing the notary office to close there. But we all know the circumstances of why it probably worked that way, and I'm not going to repeat myself. Of course, I must respond to such discussions, as I did to my colleague Kaloha's debate, and I do not wish to be a mentor to anyone. Once again, I am pleased to hear such discussions. But when it comes to certain facts that are verifiable in the legal texts that are verifiable in the European Union regulation, also in the legal text, I cannot be and will not be silent. It's not that I do anything, but I simply read that article of the European Union Regulation, cited by my colleague Kaloh, and he read very selectively and misleadingly because he did not read it to the end and he missed an important part, the part that says that the government, the Member State, does not have the right to recall European Delegated Prosecutors. One more time. If we are talking about concrete findings that fly to Minister Dikaucič and if we do not want to be – at least I do not want to be – but I want to reinforce my findings because the function of interpolation is also that we do not just speak there in three days – just and only political, then let us be exact and correct in our performances. And not relying on empty flags, but on actual and legal facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Minister Marjan Dikaucič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I listen to you carefully, and I hear you, and I remember a lot of things. So also allow me to answer some of your findings, perhaps re-emphasizing from the interpretation. With regard to the European Delegated Prosecutors, it is clear to me that I issued an invitation to apply in July this year. I am in favour of taking this into account, as well as the Court's decision, and of acting and continuing to deal with the aim of fully participating in the European Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as possible, because this will make the prosecution of crimes against the European Union's assets more effective than it can now. But, as I said, he's absolutely possible right now. However, I hope the new government decision is at least a temporary solution to this legal puzzle. It is not optimal, I agree, but of course there is great progress. And because, honourable Member Heferle, you are often legally instructing me to point out to myself here today that Article 14 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia refers to binding instructions from the President of the Government, and not to the conclusions of the Government, which, of course, are considered valid until the opposite decision of the court. With regard to the appointment of state prosecutors, I can only reiterate that the only competence of the Ministry of Justice in this regard is to publish an appeal, which, of course, we are doing up-to-date and professionally, and that is exactly what you, the proponents, recognize. I agree, however, that the number of state prosecutors is already a problem with several government mandates, which we need to solve for a more effective prosecution. As regards the number of proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors, I said in the introductory part that, in my mandate, we have sent three nominations to the Government as soon as possible, of course, according to the prescribed, long-term procedure for appointing state prosecutors, which also serves for the State Prosecutor's Council to elect the most suitable candidate or candidate. Indeed, the written reply states that, in my mandate, we have not yet submitted a proposal for the appointment of a state prosecutor to the Government, because this was true within the time limit of the written reply to the interpretation. In the meantime, we received three final opinions from the State Prosecutor’s Council and, as soon as possible, sent them to the Government. Therefore, the testimony of the honourable Member Hefferle is indeed misleading. With regard to the Law on Infectious Diseases, I can say that it does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. However, I take my consultative role and the non-binding role of the Ministry in the context of inter-departmental coordination very seriously and we are very much committed to this in the Ministry. As I have already mentioned, we have made 205 constructive but critical comments this year on the regulations of other sources, including the Law on Infectious Diseases. All these three eyewitnesses refer to the government, to me being her minister, not my job. Yes, as Minister, I am individually responsible for my department. I've never denied it, and I'm not afraid of it. However, we are in the process of interpreting against the minister, although according to some statements the opposition seems to be already at some pre-election confrontation. Perhaps the saddest are the signs of a notariat in the Grief. I am not offended, even less, to avenge myself for not being chosen, so again, noting the citizens in Žalec is available during the period between the completion of the previous notariat and the legal appointment of a new notary in Žalec, as I have already said, the periodic operation does not take place from elsewhere. If the need for a notary based in Žalec was so great that it would actually exceed the capacity of a single notary to operate periodically, I believe that the Notary Chamber would ungulate and set up several notaries for periodic operations in Žalec. I don't care if citizens have access to judicial stakeholders, but I really don't care about the stories you're telling here. With regard to the rejection of the role of the notary to date after the extension, I will only say that I have not decided on it alone, as I have said, I have gotten out of it. And as I said in the introduction, the case is still in court, so of course I'm not going to comment on it anymore. I also cannot, as you know, influence the judiciary, which should decide as soon as possible on the appointment of a new notary in Žalec. Of course, I am surprised that the opposition’s interest in matters still pending in court or that it does not want to understand or understand certain legal proceedings. Let me also explain that the provision of Article 11 of the Notariat Act is not in breach if a Notary City is not temporarily held. In this place, let me make it clear why I didn't become a notary. In view of the fact that there have been a number of conjectures and injectures in this regard today, even if I am not suitable for a minister, let me say that the fifth point of Article 8 of the Notariat Act provides, inter alia, that a notary candidate must have at least five years of practical experience in legal works following a PDI and one year in the case of a notary, a judge, a lawyer, a state prosecutor or a state attorney. On the day the tender deadline expired, I had a condition of five years of practical experience with the PDI, but I had not yet completed this one year with my lawyer. This condition would be fulfilled when a new notary in the Barrier would have to start doing his work, for the date was shown in the invitation to tender. I don't know when the Minister has to perform years of judicial work and what it would be like for me to meet this condition and actually become a candidate for the Notary City of Žalec. There have been a lot of other reports coming up, and let me answer these as well. I do not comment on the concrete procedures that are under way, including those involving me, or even more so on me, and the presumption of innocence also applies in the temple of democracy. I ran for minister because I have a clear conscience. My past is not like you want to show it, it's dark, but it's full of work, and it's in the real sector. As a man of practice, i.e. the economy, of course, I have a history of cooperation with companies i have advised them legally, i was also the owner and director, and i have recently led bankruptcy and advised legally. In fact, the law is not just justice, because it is the lawyers from the economy who make sure that justice deals with the economy as little as possible. Given that I have always dealt with bankruptcy law, I have, of course, advised companies in difficulty. This is also the reality of the economy. What happened to the companies I worked with after I stopped working with them, I don't know, and I can't be responsible for that either, which of course you want me to do here. I'm not hiding anything, and I have a very calm conscience. However, I believe that these economic experiences also help me to manage the ministry in these health and political times. So I'm not an academic, but I've been working all the time, and I've had experience, and I'm really not from politics, and I don't have political boors. In the end, let me have a few more words about the municipal contribution. This is a private legal dispute with the congregation because of the amount of the municipal contribution that has been made, as you have already revealed here, is now resolved. In doing so, I stress that I have never objected to the payment of a municipal contribution, but only to its height. Of course, you are wondering why I paid the municipal contribution just now — because the matter was reopened when I was recently invited by the municipal company to submit a payment certificate. You know, sometimes for the sake of loving peace, a person chooses to step back, and in the congregation in which I live, I want a good relationship with him. It has also been repeatedly exposed today that it would be difficult to run for different jobs because I do not meet the basic condition, this has confirmed impunity, which is not true, of course, because the evidence is here [[shows the margin]] . So far, honourable Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. She asked Tina Heferle to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	Mr. Minister, I welcome your performance. You've read it very well. I believe you've had these for almost eight hours enough to write this file. But we also don't care about the proponents, Mr. Secretary-General. First. You don't have to be an academic to represent the minister of justice. Nobody's telling you that. But it would be nice if you weren't in court for a crime of tax evasion if you were already a justice minister. If I start in the back. You didn't explain, Mr. Secretary, how you even got a building permit if you didn't pay the municipal contribution. Under the current law, a building permit shall not be issued or shall not be issued if no municipal contribution is paid. But it would be nice if you could be honest with us Members once, when we ask you this very exact question. You quoted very enthusiastically Article 14 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You say this article refers to the taking of decisions, that's what you said, and that I'm deceiving. Mr. Secretary, let me read you this 14th article. “The Prime Minister leads and directs the government’s work, ensuring the unity of the government’s political and administrative direction, coordinating the work of ministers, representing the government and citing and leading government meetings”, first paragraph. Second paragraph: "The Prime Minister may give binding instructions to ministers on the tasks arising from the direction of the Government and which are important for the work of individual ministers. If the Minister considers that binding instructions from the Prime Minister do not stem from the direction of the Government, he may request that the Government address the issue at issue." Third paragraph: "Ministers must inform the government of all matters relevant to the decision-making and implementation of government policy." And here's the end of this article. Where's the conclusion here? Who's fooling around here now, Mr. Secretary? It's probably rhetorical, isn't it? What conclusion? I have said that on the basis of this Article you are obliged to inform the Government of any issues that are important for the decision-making and implementation of government policy. The situation with the Delegated Prosecutors is an important issue that you should ask to discuss, over and over again, every government meeting. Because the Republic of Slovenia has been late for the appointment for more than six months! And once again, the European Commission's lawsuit, the fine and the blockade of European funds due to your inactivity threatened us. Who's fooling around here now, Mr. Secretary? Where do you have a conclusion to which this article should apply? Please, let's be exact. I've been trying for almost eight hours to be exact, correct and to state the legal and normative basis so that everyone understands where the evidence of your work is flying. I'll keep going. City of the state's attorneys. You're also saying here that I am deceiving that you are now in the time since the interpellation was filed, have published these invitations. Nobody's talking about it! That's not what I was talking about. I keep stressing that some appointments and promotions have been standing for more than a year. And when I said that the Council of Justice or the State Prosecutor's Council hasn't been getting information for almost half a year, I was talking about these procedures that stand, not those procedures that you've put forward. You are obliged to ensure the proper work of the State Prosecutor's Office by ensuring that no proceedings are pending. Because with only one procedure standing for one prosecutor in question – more than one, Mr Dikaucič – you are unduly and illegally interfering with the work of state prosecutors and this is unacceptable, simply unacceptable. Don't deceive or convert my words because it's not right. Come in. You're talking about a notariat in the Grief. You say that this is not a violation of Article 11 of the Notariat Act and that if there were such a need and a need for these people, 42 thousand, there are more, according to notary services, but the Notary Chamber would have already hurled. You're wondering why so much talk about this notary town in Žalec. Yes, Minister, because the performance of the notary function is a public function or public service defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Notariat Act in Article 11 tells you very clearly where and when it is necessary to establish a notary office. Do not pretend that this need is not there if this notary office has been established for almost three decades since Slovenia is independent. Such deceptions and misdirections, Mr Minister, indicate only one thing and only one thing – that you are not up to this function. You're saying you can't influence the judiciary. Yes, it is, of course, here I applaud you for this statement, but at the same time, Mr Minister, when you take a decision in the Government that a court's judgment, more specifically the Administrative Court, will not be executed, in fact, Mr Minister, you are influencing an independent and independent judiciary because you are disputing it because you are defianceing it because you do not respect it and you are standing as a representative of the executive branch of power over the judicial branch of authority. Unheard of! You say – and I will comment on this – that you do not comment on the procedures that are still under way and that the presumption of innocence is valid in our country. Of course, according to the constitution, I respect it, too. If you've listened carefully to me through almost eight hours of debate, I've always talked about the suspicion of a criminal offence involving tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. Of course, the presumption of innocence also applies to you, but, Mr Minister, you are not an ordinary citizen, you are a representative of the executive branch of the government and you are subject to different standards. It is extremely immoral and unethical for you to serve as Minister of Justice while you are being investigated for tax evasion. I think this is the standard that we cannot go under if we want to maintain some dignity in our country for our constitutional parliamentary democracy. That's what I'm telling you, and it's not that you're not supposed to be innocent. I have previously illustrated the case of Chancellor Kurz. He will then prove himself, but for the sake of the state and its reputation he resigned as chancellor because of the suspicion of corruption. You also usurp the power and name of Slovenia by not giving up under such potential criminal burdens as minister. In my implementation, once again, I'll tell you, you've read very well. I don't know who wrote to you because I've been watching you all day, you haven't written anything, you haven't typed anything, you haven't typed on that palmer or tablet computer. So I can conclude, but no harm in knowing that you've just gotten something you've read. All legitimately, of course, you have associates who help you. Thank God. But at the interview with the Minister of Justice, we would expect you to be a little more active, a little more independent. But you run a justice department in our country. The fact that you now had these five minutes of fame when you read what they wrote to you is nothing like it. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, he'll be followed by Sonibo Prince. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, when you were appointed, you swore to respect the constitutional order and the constitution. That is why we expect you to internalize the Constitution and live it and apply it in your everyday life. But here we are actually witnessing exactly the opposite. As a matter of fact, this is not something you are ashamed of. Moreover, citizens, as well as this esteemed national assembly, have the feeling that you are even making a mockery of this. Pacta sunt servanda, which is to be respected, is a fundamental principle of Roman law. Under this principle, too, the Ministry should operate under your command. Speaking of the fundamental principle, we must be aware that the fundamental principle of the Slovenian State on the functioning of our society is summarised in the Slovenian Constitution and its constitutional implementing acts. We are talking about laws, regulations and regulations. But no matter what, we're going nice. Grief. The city, which grows and develops, is sealed by its inhabitants and economy. Many companies give bread to many people and the economy simply needs notary. He's needed in the last 30 years. People need him. Retired people need him. Now, instead of a regular notary, they have a replacement once a week, and for all other things, the inhabitants of this area are forced to travel to Celje. However, there will be no mistake, in the SAB we are very proud that, on our initiative, we have provided the pensioners with free cross-border transport, so that they can also come from the Žalec to Celje, but not to remove the notariat in Celje. This is the main message. Here we suggest and read, restore the notariat, because people simply need it. They needed it in the past 30 years, and they need it further. I don't understand that this town can't be occupied. We have candidates who meet all the conditions on the day of the call, which is very important. It seems very strange to me that someone will apply for an invitation to tender on the day of the invitation to tender and that it is not sufficient to assume that he will meet all the conditions after six months or one year. Simply, the Path needs a notary, we have notary candidates who meet the conditions, and the Ministry, together with the Notary Chamber, should complete these procedures. The other thing is, Mr. Secretary, one of your pasts, which is not entirely clear. My colleagues have raised certain questions that have not been answered. The fact that someone said that he worked in the economy, advised companies, worked with societies that, I'll say, were in serious trouble – I said that very politely – and that he had no responsibility, and that he was pleading in a way that the court had not yet ruled on any responsibility is, of course, not a good traveller. The third set of cases that we are bringing to your attention are the European Delegated Prosecutors. Here I wonder what this temporary appointment is. What is the temporary appointment of prosecutors? You know, the task of the Slovenian Government is to familiarise itself with the proposal of the Judicial and Prosecutor's Council, and the Government can take a decision that it has become aware of and does not agree with the appointment. Well, the government has the right to disagree, but this does not affect the process of appointing prosecutors. To say that not naming prosecutors had no consequences because others could have done the job — what if everyone had done it, what if no state had appointed prosecutors? You know, this kind of evasiveness, this kind of attitude isn't really a traveler you could be proud of. Of course, in the SAB, with your answers, with the views you have given, we cannot agree, and that is why we believe that interpellation is more than justifiable to you. One more time to sum it up. The government should be aware of the appointment of prosecutors, and the government has the right to disagree, but it does not influence the prosecution's appointment process itself. Another matter, once again, Grief. A city with history, a city that grows and develops, has no regular notariat after 30 years, not because there is no interest in the occupation of a notary city, but because someone has made a decision. I'm not going to comment on any other matters. I think the readings we're reading are more than justified, and that's why I'm going to support the interpretation against you myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word, after which he will receive the word Marjan Šarec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This government has begun its mandate to remind you, immediately, in the first month of the regime, of some multi-million-dollar business, mendacruptive, investigated by law enforcement authorities whose list has been completed in the coming months, since this coalition in the Government, from month to month. If I do a little bit about it, it's about unconstitutional decision-making, subjugating many institutions, brutal attacks on the media, failing to deal with the epidemic, and, of course, more than obviously with the government, in which the first and last words have only one word, that is, the Prime Minister Janez Janša, all others are unfortunately some figures that have moved themselves for the past 20 months after the chessboard. The healthy part of this coalition, which began its mandate, has come to the point that in these transactions, of course, it is no longer seen as anything other than what they themselves promised when they went to the elections. As a result, some parliamentary groups have split up and new ones have emerged. Not the last time she came to this knowledge [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Dude, interpellation is a debate, not a debate. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Please don't jump into my word. I'm arguing, and if I make an introduction, the way I think I will. It's not your right to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Just a minute, buddy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'll give you my word. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. We are not now talking about political changes between the parties and up and down, we are talking about specific accusations by Minister Dikaucic. On any other occasion, you will say the rest when the theme of the agenda. Please be respectful of the chairman. If he reaches out to you, you don't have to argue with him, because otherwise I'll remind you. Go on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Madam President, this has become an unacceptable practice on your part and an intervention in the substantive debate of the individual Members. It's I don't know, I don't have words. [[…]] And they used to think of you as a doctor of the rules of procedure. I don't know what happened to you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Just a minute. It's not about who the doctor is, one way or another. I'm in charge of the session. We have an interpellation on our agenda with specific charges. With these things there's nothing epidemic, you haven't mentioned it with one point, you've mentioned, I don't know, not naming the Delegated Prosecutors, building permit and so on, removing the notariat in the Žalec. That's the darkness. What the government has to do with the epidemic is not the topic of interpolation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you. We're not coming together, and I'm gonna keep saying what I'm thinking. But I'm on my way to what you said. Secondly, say we have two sentences for introduction, but the rest has to be, I don't know what, content or something. In short, what I was going to say is that, after former Minister Kozlovich came to the realization that things, as they go, were too far behind her, she resigned. A few months before the elections, I believe it was difficult to get a candidate for the justice minister. It was not as crowded as I recall the two candidates, one of which even identified the issue of European Delegated Prosecutors. Of course, it turned out that such a government would not be competent, so we got the Minister of Justice, who, as has been said many times today, did not actually meet the minimum conditions for notary. Although today he explained something to fulfill them in a few months, I don't know what else. If you ask me, the Minister of Justice should be a person with a high political culture and high ethical standards, as far as law is concerned, a person who enjoys respect and respect in society. All that I've mentioned is not Minister Marjan Dikauchič. The very course of the hearing at the Justice Committee in June indicated that Minister Dikaucič would not be a suitable person to lead the justice ministry. Let me remind you that he didn't answer any questions at all, and I don't know why he was so mysterious about questions about his previous jobs, he didn't specifically say where he was doing everything. It also failed to explain some of the links with specific companies that ended up in bankruptcy. With a man who has such a full backpack of some, let's say, an affair, a legal dispute, I believe that the President of the Government had quite a problem when he proposed him as a minister of justice, which, last but not least, turned out to be in writing, I think, a few sentences – there was no such brief explanation at any ministry. Marjan Dikaucič is the first Minister of Justice in the history of Slovenia to be prosecuted by the prosecution for crimes of economic crime. We've had one minister before, and I think he was also in criminal proceedings, but for violence, not for such crimes. I am aware that, as has been mentioned many times today, the constitutional presumption of innocence, that everyone is innocent until it is proven to be contrary to him, however, dear fellows and colleagues, Mr Dikaucič, the Minister of Justice, is suspected of such serious crimes, which are being prosecuted even after official duty, and should no longer be a minister. These proceedings have already been quite said in these hours, I believe that even in the hours that follow, I will not discuss his suspicious business ventures, the saga with the European Delegated Prosecutor and the municipal contribution. What I wanted to say is, in this government's mandate, we're dealing with some kind of erosion of the rule of law, and we're wondering how to crack the balls of the judiciary. This is happening at a time when you are the Minister of Justice. I think it's more than enough things to imagine and, without our invitation, give up. Of course, you're not fit for this function, so I'm going to support your interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Sarec, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is difficult to add to a proposaler who has been explaining all the reasons for interpretation for eight hours, at the same time she is also a lawyer, so she knows what she is talking about. And the reasons are well known. Failure to pay a municipal contribution can be said to be a private matter, but these are the basics. I don't know how someone who's in office doesn't have a paid municipal contribution when the interpolation comes forward, and then we see that the municipal contribution has settled. Then another scene remains in mind when the government was on a regional visit to Primorska, I think, and then the minister triumphantly pulls out a court mail from the speaker and is about to give him a medal because he took over the mail. Please! He's a justice minister, the basis for what he has to do is to take over the mail. But why would you take it if the Prime Minister didn't take it? Then he said, "What's the problem if I'm in the process, because the President of the Government is in the process, and so on." Interpellators argue that Marjan Dikaucič is not suitable for a minister, of course because we do not understand the reality. We should look the other way! He has high qualifications for this government! Because in this government, if you're not a well-founded potential interpolate, you can't even be. We could have 10 opposition parties, and anyone could have made one intervention against a minister. And then Minister Dikaucič reads us from the list in the style of his client president. By the way, the last time we were on Target, I knew in advance what your client's president was going to say about me, because he had everything written about that cocoa he told me about, I knew it would be because I saw that he had written it. And so does the minister today. The previous minister kept her mouth shut for too long. And as far as we could get to know her, we wondered why she was silent for so long. But her silence was not eternal either, for she decided to leave this function. Just as my predecessor, Mr. Knezak, has said nicely how crowded this function has not been. That's why he signed up for it, or the client was delegating Mr. Dikaucič, who didn't even know or wanted to tell us where he was working before. In short, the Ministry of Justice is run by a person who is in criminal proceedings — well, yes, he does — has a certificate of impunity because he was not punished, we agree — who did not pay a municipal contribution that did not raise the court's mail only then raised it to pressure. This is the image of this government. And you will tell the gentlemen on the right what was before and how the previous governments were incapable of doing so. Yeah, they weren't perfect, of course they weren't. But just as you boast and live in a parallel world, sometimes it's hard to understand. Mr Dikaucič has come to the Ministry without any competence for this ministry. Because his greatest competence is to remain silent and, together with the President of the Government, we are able to sell one story again, as the Government has temporarily delegated. The government has not delegated anything. The government has come to know what its mission is. And after this introduction, he appoints a second European institution. There can be no temporaryity. But here, the government or the president of the government is selling us the same story he sold to the Slovenian Press Agency. However, many then find it uncritical, and then what it covers, this story that the Government has temporarily delegated something. But it is typical of this government to make a full spectacle out of routine things that are going on differently after some inertia, as legislation says, because the President is not being met by the prosecutor. And then the Minister is silent when the invitation to tender is repeated and when legal, political and other gymnastics are implemented, so that the result today is exactly what it should have been, it is said that the European Prosecutor would sit in his places of work. The minister, who is silent about this and then sells us some more pumpkins in his answers, would not be a minister in a serious country. We have one minister, Maria Teresa, I don't know who he is, but I certainly believe that after you stop interpreting, you will be bragging about how unnecessary interpretations are, just on the right hand side, which in the 30-year history of Slovenia are absolute recorders of the number of interpretations and also of constitutional accusations. But it bothers you. When you're not in power, you're disturbed by the rulings, when you're in power, by the same people who used to rule, now in the opposition. There's always someone bothering you. Naked by the opposition, weathered, pressured, naged, I don't know who's in this world, everybody's guessing. Really, how bad is that? But, yeah, we could say, let's not go blind, the dogs are barking, the caravan's moving on. Today you will probably continue to interpolate again, as you always do, because you have agreed to do so by the end of your term of office, unless someone is mistaken, then we vote on the mafia and corruption leadership of the country. It's different then, but when you get together again, even a minority MP who's not supposed to be a tongue on the scale, that's how it is. This is a political reality, because we obviously have to deal with it. It is true that it is the task of the opposition to give interpretations, so all I am asking you to do is stop complaining about how the opposition is impeding you and how you are wasting your time with interpolation, because in the past 30 years the governments have lost time to turn to you, time on interpellations, constitutional accusations and everywhere, when Janez Janša, after winning in 2004, called another extraordinary meeting in the meantime. So you're the last one to talk about the eligibility of interpretations and I don't know what. If you have a majority, then you rule, the opposition can't hurt you. But if you don't have that majority, then I don't know, go, or what you'd say. In the end, dear Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber, I will say only that Marjan greets Marjana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello again on my behalf! I am truly sorry to speak again with the Secretary of State and not with the Minister, because it seems to me that we are constantly having a dialogue or my monologue lately, while I do not get the Minister as an interlocutor. I truly regret that. I understand that today is a long day and that certain people — we are monitoring in the media — have come to express support for the National Assembly. Nevertheless, it would be wise for us to sit here today so that we can get specific answers from him. First of all. The fact that he has a certificate of impunity does not mean that he can obtain a certificate that he is not in criminal proceedings before a competent court. For certain jobs, even for official posts, such a certificate would also be required and the Minister does not have it. Personally, when I have thought about this debate today, and even when I am listening to the debate today, I must say that, in fact, the content is no longer too much to add. Your colleague, Hefferle, legally speaking, gave you a very consistent interpretation of why the Minister should have resigned in his own right, not here. However, the fact that the Minister made certain actions last week, temporarily appointed a European Delegated Prosecutor, paid a municipal contribution, so agreed, the ergo is obviously the result of this vote already in advance and, in fact, today the opposition is re-emerging on some arguments that may come to light at the end of the day. But it's still the right thing to say, but maybe one day we'll run into a hearing. Mr Minister Dikaucič is already on the Committee on Justice when he was being questioned – I must say that we Social Democrats did not expect much from him. His answers at the time were very flawed or, rather, there were no answers. He kept repeating the same mantra. He did not want to make a concrete statement on the European Delegated Prosecutors. In the end, it was voted in the way that everyone in this mandate has been voted under this government, i.e. with the coalition roller irrespective of the content we hear. The fact is, indeed, that in some normal democratic country, respected Mr Minister, they do resign themselves. He would have resigned for the first time when certain suspicions had been declared. However, I believe very strongly in the presumption of innocence, and therefore I do not like to speak in the context of a discourse in which someone is condemned in advance, which is now too often in Slovenia, but nevertheless, for the exercise of such a position, for the exercise of a position that requires a truly high reputation in a community that requires exceptional legal knowledge and respect, but for such a situation it is only right to be occupied by a person who is valued, who has exceptional professional references and who is aware of the importance of his personal integrity. At a time when such suspicions would come on a day — or with these suspicions, of course, he had already been informed, the public alone had not been, I am talking about the suspicions that are now in court — it would be the only hygienic thing for Mr. Dikaucič to give up. I am sorry that he did not do it himself, that he did not do it today alone, to defend himself here with some arguments which, of course, do not drink water. The opposition is clear that its interpretation is not substantively justified, that we are only attacking him because he is a member of this government. You have to be a member of any government to be intertwined. You can't interpret an MP, I guess. That's an oxymoron in itself, if you ask me. Of course you have to be a member of the government, that you're intertwined. Is he intertwined because he is a member of the government of Mr. Janez Janša? No, he's intertwined because he's a very bad justice minister or I call him a "missing and action" person, because I rarely see him on the Justice Committee. Every time, we, the Secretary of State, have a dialogue. I have seen Mr Dikaucič on committees only once, and this is on the Committee on Foreign Policy, which was also an absurd pair of excellence when he came to the Committee on Foreign Policy to explain the implementation of the European, if not mistaken, directive on human resources support for the implementation of the European Public Prosecutor, and no European Delegated Prosecutor was ever appointed at that time. So, in itself, the distinguished Minister is essentially as a person for whom the interpretation is not working. Because we only track him when he speaks to certain public or stakeholders, we very rarely track him in the National Assembly and he is obviously fortunate to have a respected Secretary of State sitting so steeply here and carrying our attacks, although they are mostly directed at the Minister and would like to hear the answers directly from him. Mr Minister must be aware, for example, of Article 4 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: “The Government is responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the State which runs it, for the situation in all areas under the jurisdiction of the State; it is also responsible for the implementation of the laws and regulations of the National Assembly and for the full functioning of the State Administration. The government is jointly responsible for all its members and for the work of each ministry the competent minister.” Article 17 states: “Ministers are responsible for decisions and positions of disability.” Vlad! Governments as a collective body. Nothing says that the Minister of Justice should not be intertwined because the interpretation here concerns the work of the Government as a collective body, so we are talking about certain indications against its membership in the Government as a collective body, but very clearly the law says: “Ministers are responsible for the decisions and positions of the government and for their implementation, for their decisions in the management of the Ministry, as well as for the abandonment of the measures they should take.” And he's responsible for me from all three points of view. In July, when we had a dialogue with the Minister of Justice – Slovenia at the time fell on the scale of respect for civil liberties and I asked him what he would do as a defender, as that person in the Government who was a defender of the rule of law and human rights, to actually improve Slovenia's reputation, to comply with the principle of the rule of law – he said that he was not the Prime Minister, that he could only ensure respect at the Ministry of Justice and that everyone was responsible for his ministry. Of course not. He here, in response to the interpretation, pleads that the legality of the court and of course the Constitutional Court are concerned. So the Court and the Constitutional Court, when it speaks specifically of the decision of the Administrative Court in appointing the Delegated Prosecutors. That's a little double now, too. When he responds, he respects legality and constitutionality when he does not respond to it, and again: it is not my fault. Now he too must decide what he really respects. In the past year, the Constitutional Court has issued quite a few decisions by the Constitutional Court, which make it very clear that the way in which human rights and freedoms are restricted in this country is absolutely and categorically unconstitutional. It further decided that, in a variety of respects, the powers of the National Assembly had been withdrawn. So, there's some kind of derogation from the National Assembly, all under the cover of extraordinary circumstances, but we don't have an extraordinary situation, we don't have a declared epidemic, we don't have clear criteria under which these human rights and freedoms are limited. However, we have 2 000 700 government decrees that keep doing this, and it continues to do so today, despite the fact that the Court has made it clear that it is necessary to adopt a law that will clearly determine when, under what conditions and what measures these measures may be and, of course, also determine the role of the National Assembly in taking these measures. If we're talking about Austria, for example, because you've been referring so much to Austria lately. In Austria, Parliament plays a very active role in adopting these measures. With us, however, Parliament is only informed by media Wednesday or Thursday about the new government decrees. That's not the way. This, of course, is no way, and in this way it is not limited to human rights and freedoms, that is, to the sacrament which is one of the highest values for a lawyer. In July, the Minister also replied that the Ministry's task is to take care of human rights and freedoms, or I will quote: "I think it is imperative that we all strive to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the rule of law and the rule of law." I want to know how he's taking care of it. I would like to ask him when he returns to this hall, how he cares about doing so. How does he take care of it when he has so many constitutional decisions that are not implemented? If his task as Minister of Justice is to also take care of the functioning of the judiciary, to implement and implement judicial decisions, why has he failed to ensure that the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented? Why is he still participating in a government that consistently ignores these decisions of the Constitutional Court? Moreover, when the Constitutional Court tells us how to work, it again adopts a decree of similar content. It's already a mockery of the rule of law and everything. This is the absurdity the minister should answer. When it comes to interpretation, which is individual, of course it is individual and collective, it is subjective and objective, as well as interpretation of its moral, political and legal responsibility. For me, the honourable Minister has fulfilled all the criteria. Thus, the former president of the party from which the Minister comes has defined the interpretation. So these are the words of the man who, at the time of the establishment of this party, spoke of some high morals and ethics that this party is going to be following, and we have been missing it very much lately. Lately. We have two interpellations of two ministers from this party, from which everything that comes to you, that you absolutely care about the rule of law, that you absolutely care about the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that the only thing that matters is the preservation of some chairs. All right, here's April's the election, these few months, like Kacin free, enjoy it while you still can. Today you have taken these votes, but you will protect the Lord in any way. I think that some very serious damage can no longer occur in the context if you stay in place, because it is not, does not work and is for me “missing person”, “missing in action”. I don't think he's gonna miss him very much, either at the Ministry or the shareholders he needs to take care of. In the end, when a representative of the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court comes to the Justice Committee and says how the Ministry unilaterally reduces, without any discussion, the urgently needed resources for the additional professionals they need due to the exceptional co-existence of the cases that took place first due to the lockdown, i.e. because of the judicial backlog, and secondly because of the exceptional case that is the direct result of the Government's work with the decisions and so on, unconstitutional decisions. [[…]] This has already been decided by the Constitutional Court, so it is not potential unconstitutionality, unconstitutional decisions. When this happens and a representative comes to the Justice Committee – again, it was you, there was no minister, I really expected the Minister to do everything to protect the judiciary from such an attempt to submit. It all reminds us of the M.O.S.A. through financial exhaustion, to gain power. That this is already on the right track, is the statement by the President of the Council of Justice, who says on the Committee that the Court of Justice is saying that the funds have been withdrawn due to judges' decisions. So the judges are slowly becoming afraid. This is the first step towards subjugating the third branch of power, already derogating from the National Assembly, if we repeat ourselves, the media is quieted down in a way such as the STA, one year of financial exhaustion, and goes to court. Through financial exhaustion, some fear is subject to judicial authority, and then you come into a system that the current largest party is supposed to be fighting terribly, and I feel that again and again the principles of a previous system are much more loving to her than, I will tell my colleague, who is here with me. It mentions more of this on the other hand, this way of doing things. But I do have another specific question for the Minister. When they were finally named, that is, when this exercise with the Delegated Prosecutors ended, they were finally appointed – although this institute of temporaryity in essence does not know our Law on the State Prosecutor at all, here again you refer to a regulation where this article is again thought to be in cases in which, for example, the European Delegated Prosecutor has resigned or has been dissolved, then it can be provisionally appointed – the Ministry or the Government replied, and I quote: “If the selection procedure, which was carried out on the basis of the first public appeal, has not followed the provisions of the Law on Public Prosecution, the benefits of the services of the proposed candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor for the performance of the duties of the EGT are considered to be of the harm which the EGT and the Republic of Slovenia raises doubts about the legality of the selection procedure.” I wonder why it took you so long to find that in this case the benefits outweigh the damage, the damage and the benefits. The specific question, however, would be nicely asked for a concrete answer. Finally, only when the Minister says that when no delegated prosecutors were appointed did no harm come to the European budget. I will quote you again from the EU institutions: "The delay in appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, as well as prosecutors in Slovenia, causes serious concerns and is a major problem that needs to be resolved quickly." They warned and stressed that this was not only a violation of European legislation but also a threat to the integrity of the European budget. Well, it's not a person who cares about the rule of law, it's a person who undermines the rule of law. Of course I'll support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič has the word, to prepare the Jurassic Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Good evening, everyone! Today we have heard that Minister Dikaucič raised the post, helped that the two Delegated Prosecutors were temporarily appointed, paid a municipal contribution, received a certificate of impunity, arranged a notary service in Žalec, otherwise once a week, but this is “beside the point”, this is totally irrelevant, and that his guilt in tax evasion and in falsification of the documents has not yet been proven. These are the answers if we paraphrase them a little bit, to today's findings. But when did the answers happen? After the interpolation was already filed, when it was already public. This is nothing more than stimulation to invest again in the opposition to interpolation, because obviously only in this area is something achieved. If any such action of the opposition results on the other hand, we will gladly do so to preserve at least some of the legality in this country. Because you have decided today that interpellation is without connection, both the Minister and the coalition MPs, because you have enough votes. You know how to count. What great philosophies in this national assembly is not necessary. You just need to know how to count things, up to 46 in this case. And when we listen, there's really no content. What's more, my friend Tina's doing the best she can. In taxis, he lists the articles, in taxis, what is evident to the minister, this proves, and then the coalition MPs say, with the minister at the head, that the interpretation is empty, that there are flat accusations, everything is totally unrelated. This is a classic Kalimerian strategy that we have known since the time of the stolen elections ahead: everyone is guilty, everyone is responsible, only you poor people are not. We're all getting on your nerves just because we're pointing out the mistakes you're actually making. It is interesting that Mr Kaloh said in a statement to TV that I was by accident, he said: "Today the minister will return to normal work." This is exactly what we are actually reading not only to Minister Dikaucic, but to the whole government click. Under the Constitution, the Minister is the Government, both of you are obliged to answer to the National Assembly. If the minister sits in this hall or does not sit down, perhaps following us through television, it is his constitutional duty. It's quite simple. As is his business duty to participate in the work of the bodies. And if he can't do it half a year or so, that says something about his attitude towards the National Assembly, if not his work. This lack of debate, the defence of Minister Dikaucic, in fact, raises another very important question: how will those parties, those Members who have said in their statements today that they will decide after the debate, actually decide? Based on what? On the basis of the two minutes of the response read by Minister Dikaucic after eight hours of discussion, the questions, a few minutes of the answer read, will be enough arguments for Members to decide on the basis of the debate, because you already know everything. The minister will be working normally tonight. But if this normality is what it's been doing so far, every second I'm more afraid of where this country is going, where our system is going, where all trust is going. That's the way it is. You understand everything, of course, as far as interpolation is concerned. As for the rest – I don't know, finish up on your own. Let's go in one order. Temporary briefing, I've caught a deadline somewhere. The government has been briefed temporarily by two Delegated Prosecutors. But tomorrow she'll forget, because if you know something temporarily, it means you'll forget it one day. Selective amnesia, which we have also seen many times in this national assembly, is not in fact strange, because it is a result of established practice. You don't have to go far into the past, you know, you have to go back and back and forth because of the unopened envelope and then you still have all the constitutional judgements that have already taken place and are still going to happen, and then you have to go back and forth, and then you have to go back and back and forth, and then you have to go back and forth, and you have to go back and forth, and then you have to go back and forth, and you have to go back and forth, and then you have to go back to all the constitutional opinions that have already happened, and then you're going to this whole thing, and then you're going back and forth, and then you're going back and forth, and then you're going back and you're going to this whole thing, and then you're going to this whole thing, and then you're going to this whole The word is very flexible if you adjust it to your wishes, but you can't adjust it to facts. But that's exactly what you're doing. And then the greatest achievement in October is Minister Dikaucič to get out of front of the journalists – as my fellow Member Mr. Sarec said – pull the envelope: "I have lifted the mail. But I picked up the mail!" Ah, run, come on! Why is this so important? We all know why it is so important — because in this country some mail is not raised and avoided. On 23 September, the District Court of Murska Sobota issued a decision establishing a judicial investigation to the Minister and another person and then told him a few weeks later that the Minister of Mail had not raised the case. Then he pulls the envelope out of his pocket and says, "I picked it up, I picked it up." Yes, great, I'm congratulating, excellent job for the post office and the supreme achievement of the prime minister of justice! And he says he didn't do it. All right, no one's guilty until proven guilty, but the trial starts on the basis of reasonable suspicion. In Austria, reasonable suspicion has caused – we all know what. But this is a matter of political hygiene that Minister Dikauchič cannot overcome. Reasonable suspicion, and not anything, of falsifying documents and tax evasion. And then the Minister dares to say that "the proposalers want to create the impression that my ministry is unacceptable". No, we don't want to make that impression because he made it himself, we claim that his ministry is unacceptable. That we do not have any arguments and evidence, we state inaccuracies, and therefore, of course, the interpretation completely rejects – completely calamari because he is a poor poor post-mailer who has a certificate of impunity! “The alien Slovenia has seen today,” a sheet of paper, what it says above, I do not know, “I have a certificate of impunity.” But I believe that this has proved credible because such a procedure, that it would show something, is indeed beyond my own, and then, in response, he says earlier that he paid a municipal contribution because of loving peace, because he will live in this congregation. [[…]] For the sake of peace! Yes, then, for the sake of loving peace in this country, let him also give up!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us! A similar debate is taking place today, where mostly injury is also at a personal level. One such morning we saw a short time ago on Friday at the intervention of the Minister of Education, today is the obvious continuation of this story, the continuation of this way of communication in this National Assembly. At least in view of the number of Members and Members who follow this interpretation live from the hall – perhaps others are watching from the offices – through television and the Internet is of greater interest than there is here, something that says in itself. But I'm not going to interpret what and how. Today, as well as at a number of other meetings in recent months, we have heard various things. Today, we have seen quite a few typical cases where the minister is made clear that he is offensive, that he has such or different attitude towards work, that he has a function and so on, and at the same time, those who make it clear to him actually feel sorry for him, humiliated him and whatever else he might say, and I will stop at this point. And then one wonders where all this leads, that we cannot even have in the temple of democracy, that we cannot even have a respectful relationship in the National Assembly, a kind of respectful dialogue, that we cannot talk about the arguments that everyone can't give their opinion, somehow exchange views. I don't think it's good, and today it's not just once, but it's shown itself more than once. In my debate, as far as content is concerned, I will initially hold back somewhat more from the European Delegated Prosecutors. Today, we have heard the 71st article of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is repeatedly and again and again, and the applicants do not mention the 71st article which speaks of the candidature procedure. And I'm not going to go to the whole article, brother. I'm only going to read two paragraphs that are short so we can know what we're talking about. In short, it's the 71st article that talks about the candidacy process. We are therefore talking about European Delegated Prosecutors. The fourth paragraph states: "The State Prosecutor's Council shall, after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General, define and draw up a list of three candidates for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and inform the candidates and the Ministry. The Ministry sends a list of three candidates to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a briefing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit a list of three candidates to the competent institution of the European Union.” Article 71, paragraph 5, states: “The call under this Article shall be regarded as unsuccessful if candidates who have not been rejected have not submitted at least three candidates”, at least three candidates, “or if the State Prosecutor’s Council, on the basis of the nominations received, finds that it cannot form a list of three candidates for the appointment of a European Prosecutor.” The honourable and honourable Members, who do not refer to this article or who are moving, you know, and the Member of Parliament, who today represents the candidates, voted in favour of this amendment and the amendment of the law. This law has been passed by you in the Sharchev government, or the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which provides for such a procedure, and you now report to the Minister in essence that he has acted in accordance with this law. Ms Tina Heferle also supported, voted in favour of this amendment and the addition of this law. So much so that we're right, so much so that we all have all the information. I'm going to continue with a broader story, because, finally, it's connected to what I said in the introductory minutes. The insults that are taking place today, as in the past days, we see them in this national assembly for months, are happening outside of it. I will now make one concrete case, which actually opens up the issue of the rule of law. Not only would we go to this particular case, but in general we have many such cases in our country. You've probably noticed that a lot of attention has been given in the last few days to a certain degree. Formulation of records, instigation of spelling errors, omission of notes and other corrections to a diploma assignment shall be inadmissible. And yes, everyone can make a mistake, a legal error is not a crime, but you know, writing about John Janša is not a crime, writing about Milan Kučan is not a crime, and writing about Slobodan Milosevic is not a crime, some have written about him a diploma. Why am I saying this? It's a broader context. You know, when we're talking about interfering with a diplomat's job and pretending, faking it, it's a crime. Of course, I will not judge this, but will judge the competent institutions, the competent courts. Today, the Minister listens to insults, and occasionally we listen to insults by Members in this National Assembly. And then for a matter that is assessed by the profession, which is by professors, doctors of science, longtime professors, who are different worldviews, with the highest possible rating, and this unanimously, we read that the victory is unworthy of its diploma name, that the diplomat works badly at the University of Maribor, that it is a vulgar diplomat, full of spelling and vocabulary errors, and with terrible substantive shortcomings. This is where I draw parallels. One case that happened yesterday, the day before yesterday, and things that are finally happening to the current Minister of Justice today. On the one hand, certain matters are being subdued, he is being told what he is, and it is by means of such methods as are actually evident to him. There's also one example of this. In these few minutes, you may have found that I am talking about my wife's graduation work, Ambassador Carmen Cosmus Ferrjan, on whom in the last few days certain individuals who obviously do not know each other or who do not want to because they are afraid to sign them. At this point, you know, it's first the discreditation and then the liquidation. We heard that not so long ago. Disclosures are happening to the Minister, discredits are happening to Members and Members of Parliament, and I am interested in what the next step is. I'm talking about what's going on in our country. And I know that you, as a justice minister, are not allowed to comment or comment on a particular matter, but I expect that, with your work, you will create the conditions for the rule of law to work in Slovenia. And that's what the Minister of Justice is responsible for. We have a lot of cases like this. Not long ago, we considered amendments and additions to the Penal Code. There was a very clear signal and no more excuses for the prosecution. I think we need to be right, and that each of us, in our own work, also gives a signal in his own expression and is an indicator of what kind of society he wants. That is what all of our debates are about, whether we agree with an interlocutor or someone who is either defending himself or answering some questions, some arguments, or not. That we are able to go to such a low level in society that they induce lies, deceptions, counterfeits and do not talk about concrete arguments, and that, respected and respected, is worrying. My debate was a little wider, but I wanted to show a broader context that is happening today, which is also taking place in general in society, in the media, in social discourse and not least in the National Assembly. That's why I went a little wider on purpose, and thank you, Mr Vice President, for letting me think a little more about it. But today's interpolation, like the one we had all day on Friday, is a very clear indicator that the priority of KUL is interpeeling ministers, even a few weeks or a few months before the regular state elections. On the one hand, it's understandable because you don't have the flow and content. But you know, in fact, this just shows that you are not an alternative, because the current government is on the ground today, will be on the ground tomorrow, will visit all regions in Slovenia by the end of its mandate, solves real problems in the field, the legislative process, the parliamentary process, gives system laws, laws, the novels of the Income Law, the Long-Terms Act, the demographic fund, the law on demobilization, and on the ground solves real problems, while in the KUL you deal with yourself and with the mutilation and regret of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Procedurally Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Presidents, I strongly protest and demand that you give a reminder, for the Member has said that we are lying, but he has lied in his own debate and has been reading to us the procedure for the European Prosecutor and not for European Delegated Prosecutors, which is an eccentric lie. We are here today talking about European Delegated Prosecutors, where there is no need for three times more candidates for the Prosecutor's Office. And he lied to the camera, to the public, to everyone, but he kept yelling that we were lying. By demanding reprimand, or the applicant who is a lawyer will very clearly explain to an inspiring young man once again what is the case with the procedures for posting European prosecutors or European Delegated Prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Take it easy, please. Easy. First of all, Mrs Muršič was procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I know that while you were sitting at this chair 49 minutes ago, I believe that you were also following today's session in your office. A colleague who led the session before you, Mr Tanko, interrupted our colleague, Mr Sonibo Knezak, when he was discussing it. He stopped it because he wanted to define his debate a little wider. Three times he jumped into his mouth and even gave him a warning if he was to drift away from this interpretation that we are talking about today. Ferjan’s colleague was so far away from the darkness when he spoke of his wife’s traumas and traumas that it was indeed a reminder. I suggest, my procedural proposal is that the President and the Vice-Presidents sit together, all together for one table, and you all have four of the same criteria for chairing the meetings. For what is happening today or has been happening for some time now is unacceptable. So, my procedural proposal is that everyone who runs this session and meetings has the same criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm the one who's running the session today. Usually, whenever I lead, I always allow a broad debate. I think that this is a place in which a little broader matters need to be explained. But I can't influence others, my colleague and my colleague, or the President, what they allow and what they don't. Mrs. Tina Hefferle, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Mr. Ferryan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. My procedural proposal will be for you - because of course I cannot comment on the procedural proposals of others and will not - please point out this to those who are deceiving in procedural proposals. Because I was talking about the State Prosecutor's Act, and the 8th Division is talking about the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor. In this context, there is also an article that I quoted, paragraph 71. I'd just like to add two more words. Madam colleague Sukič, you don't have to express yourself like that, you don't have to patronise me, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The replica of Dr. Franc Duck [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's not true. You were the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Let's be fair. I read my colleague Carmen's graduation assignment because I was also curious about what was involved in this assignment. It's a well-written diploma, reads well. A colleague is a good stylist, she is also identified in the introduction that she cannot be completely objective to the character and work of Janez Janša. I don't mind him mentioning some beautiful Aussen song, even my students do it sometimes. The only thing missing from that graduation assignment is, in fact, — and this flies to mentor — methodology. Because in a diploma assignment, if you have two empirical studies, you have to specify what the sample is, whether it's representative or not, how big it is. And if you're doing two interviews, one is with Janša, and these interviews must be included in the transcript. At least what's in the e-work is not. And if anyone insults a colleague about a graduation assignment, please stop doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you, too. But this really isn't today's content and topic of conversation. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking you to calm down. I know we're tired, we've been sitting here for so many hours, but let's be respectful and try to focus somehow on the agenda. This, of course, allows for a broader debate at this point. Mag. Meira Hot wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	I've wanted it for a while, but I've been missed a lot of times when you're in charge. And I will tell you right away that we are very calm, but I think, Mr President, as Mr Tanko has something to say to Mr Koprivec, you have something concrete to the SD, because you often remind us that we are loud and I don't know what. And now we are discussing too much, and others are not discussing too much. Let's get the same vats for everyone. This was a combined procedural with a replica. A replica of Mr. Ferjan because he obviously didn't understand my debate. Indeed, I have talked about the fact that, for a European Delegated Prosecutor, nowhere in the article you cited, it does not say that it is forbidden to appoint two or three. It says three, but it doesn't prohibit two. And if this was so very wrong, why are you in your manoeuvres, then the government, why did the government, in its renegotiations, call for two prosecutors and not for three, but if there is a request for three? Why, then, did the government not also give in its repeated farce? And speaking of languages, it was essentially 9 October 2020. On the level of language knowledge, the State Prosecutor's Council then adopted on the basis of a decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So your debate had nothing to do with the relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Let me warn you, honourable Member, that you do not behave. I have never embarked on the content of your debate, but I have repeatedly warned you that we respect the rules of procedure and that we do not disturb other speakers. Maybe you don't even know when you're talking in silence, how it sounds up here. And when someone else gives me some signs, some signals, I warn you. That's what I did, and that's what I'm gonna do. Proposer. Tina Hefferle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	I will respond as a candidate, even though you should, Mr Vice-President. Dear Mr Ferrjan, your debate was not only broad, it was very much out of the question, practically 100%. No one has talked about any diploma today, at least not to offend anyone about any degree assignment, so, indeed, my proposal, let you and your wife deal this at home, not here mixing pears and apples. As for your debate, which was, as has already been said, very over and not substantive in one part, you have been substantive, but you have been very substantively misleading, very much misleading. You say that you referred to or read Article 8a of the Public Prosecutor's Act, which is addressed to the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor. Okay. But you, Mr Ferrjan, quoted and read the 71st article, which speaks of the European Prosecutor's candidacy procedure. Let me teach you, if you are a true ignorant person, a section of a law, if the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor are addressed, does not mean that all the members in this section are governed by both European and delegated prosecutors. No, no, no. It only means that the articles governing the European Prosecutor's Office are in the same section under point 8.a. So much for that. And when you quoted and read the 71st article, which, as it is said, speaks, I will now say a little more accurately, and I will now say undeterred and unselectively read this article like you, this article has five paragraphs, and I will not read everything because it is a waste of my time. First, he talks about the call for applications, then he talks about when the deadlines for the submission of applications expire, and so on, when these nominations are fully submitted, when they are not. Then he says that the Ministry will send it forward within five days of the expiry of the deadline and blah blah blah blah blah. Then be careful, the fourth paragraph is very clear, and I will quote this as follows: "The State Prosecutor's Council shall, after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General, define and form a list of three candidates, "for the appointment of the European Prosecutor." This article does not refer to the European Delegated Prosecutor, but rather to the European Prosecutor. And let it be understood, fellow members of the coalition, that it is two different and different institutes. The European Prosecutor does not work at home, the European Delegated Prosecutor works at home, in Slovenia. Let us understand that these two are different, if you want, professions, if you prefer more afternoon content, afternoon terminology to make it easier for you to understand. What is most controversial or the most perverse of all, however, is that you read this article as if it were talking about European Delegated Prosecutors. And you've been deceiving! And you were knowingly deceiving, knowingly deceiving. My colleague Jeraj, who has been calling all the time to tell you the contents of Article 5. The contents of Article 5 refer to when the candidacy is unsuccessful and also to candidates for the appointment of a European prosecutor. The word “delegated prosecutor” is nowhere. What you are saying is the third paragraph of the next article, 71.d., which in fact refers to the procedure and conditions for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors, which, just and only once again, makes sense for the meaningful application of the previous article, which is not the same as the literal application, let me make this clear to you. Either you're lawyers or you're not, it's not the same. And the preceding Article applies mutatis mutandis only to those things which are not regulated by the European Union Regulation. However, the European Union Regulation makes it clear that the chief European prosecutor does not choose between candidates for a Delegated Prosecutor, but simply checks on their respective professional qualifications. Ergo must appoint or refer two candidates, the names of two candidates. Given that the Government does not have the right to choose or judge the professional qualifications of candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor under the Public Prosecutor's Act, it is obliged to take into account the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council. Pika. Any other attempt at some perverse application of these normative provisions is malicious and, I will use the term again, is legal charlatanism or legal hooliganism. So much so that we're accurate. You, Mr Ferrjan, would not have had an interpolation even a few months before the elections, would have had an interpolation 100 days after taking office. Yeah, well, when can it ever be?Oh, my God! Never, apparently. We are obliged, for the sake of our rule of law, to draw attention to the illegalities committed by certain ministers, whether within 100 days of taking office or one month before the elections, unfortunately. You're saying that today is essentially about this interpretation of insults. The honourable Member, if the Minister listens to the facts and indications that he is being charged with the suspicion of the crime of tax evasion and falsification of business documents, if that is an offence, help God, that is a fact. If the insult is that we all fear that only a few days before the interpolation has paid the municipal contribution, if this is an insult, God help. In short, it is not offensive that the minister today listens to all these observations, which are once again based on the actual and legal situation. It's unfortunate that all of you are looking away, shutting your ears and following, blindly following the coalition treaty. The Minister must be defended – why? Because it says so in the coalition contract. Not because Mr Ferrjan would be able to argue with some substantive argument of the obvious, but because he was talking about a diploma. No, Mr. Ferrjan and the others will press the counter-interpell button because they have to. That's sad. The more we bring on the platter than today's proponents we bring all the evidence, based not politically, Mr Ferrjan, but legally, the man almost cannot. Only a legal conviction in a criminal case would be more exact. So this diversion – I do not intend to devote any more time to your debate, because it is difficult to respond to such empty political and personal frustrations in the context of some of the serious professional debates we have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The replica of Jure Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I'll be very brief. If you do not see a humiliating attitude in your own exercise of this patronage, I will not go into it. But what's interesting is that you said you wouldn't spend any more time with me, but you talked almost as much time as I did in my debate, but good. You know, interpellation is your only program, okay? And if mucking up this government is your only program, okay? It's your decision, you know. However, I would like to see words of constructiveness and cooperation in your work cycle, at least after the next regular elections, play a greater role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. First of all, Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Once again, I strongly protest and demand that you remind Mr Ferjan. What's he talking about?Oh, my God! That interpellation is our only program? No! No! Interpellation is one of the tools of the opposition when this tool needs to be used. That's a long way from being our only program. What is this man saying? Can, please, he cease to insult the opposition at all times with his exalted position of power? And please remind him, because that's a lot of what this man allows himself to be here. First he's lying, now he's hurting. But he's saying we're lying and we're insulting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	There's only one thing I need to agree with you here. Interpellation is indeed a way of expressing disagreement in democracy, and this is what they do in all parliaments, and so is ours. What an individual says and how he speaks is hateful or hateful, but this is also a matter of each and every one of us, respected colleagues and colleagues. Let us sometimes look in the mirror and see what we are saying. I'm sure it's not me as chairman here to find out who's lying and who's not lying. I'm in charge of the meeting by the rules of procedure. Mrs. Tina Haferle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Hefferle. Dear Mr Ferrjan, if you do not know what the Institute of Interpellation really means, I will not read to you or explain to you, let you read it. Interpellation is not a political programme and interpellation is not just a way of expressing some disagreement. Today it's more than that, dear Mr. Ferrian. Today, I have been talking for almost 10 hours in interpretation about where, when and how Mr Dikaucič, Minister of Justice, broke the law, disobeyed the fundamental constitutional norms and violated the European Union regulation. Don't get carried away. When you run out of arguments – completely legitimately, completely legitimately – in some empty political footnotes about, I don't know, my performance is patronizing, I don't know what. How am I supposed to help you understand, I don't know, section 71 of the State Attorney's Act? I can only explain to you well-intentionally, but I can explain the concept of meaningful application in law. Because I probably know a little bit more about legal concepts like you. And if you feel threatened when I explain it to you, then where you're sitting now is not the right place. If you don't accept the opposite of the debate and the opposite of the arguments. And no, please, to say that this interpellation is a political programme, Mr Ferrjan. This interpolation is significantly higher. There is evidence that in our country under your government, under Mr. Dikaucič's ministry, there is a breach before our eyes of the rule of law by disregarding the judgments of the courts when the Government takes a decision, including Mr. Dikaucič, that the judgment is not enforceable, as you are today exercising and looking for some legal explanations of some articles that are attracted to hair. Once again, legal hooliganism is on its way. All legal proceedings, which apply something in our country, explain in one voice the application of these articles of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Regulation of the European Union. In one voice! Only representatives of the SDS, Mr Dikaucič, understand this slightly differently – so that you can get to know something temporarily and then you will forget that you have met. Please! When you ask yourself what the next step is, I wonder what is the next step in allowing us to be the justice minister of a man who is suspected of committing a crime of tax evasion and of falsification of business documents and who is clearly violating Slovenian legal order. What is the next step in this government?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. First of all, it was Mr. Ferrian. Did you want a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grimes, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to ask Mrs Tina Heferle and everyone else to draw attention to at least some minimum standards in the debate when it comes to respect for the law. At least two facts should be respected by everyone. First time. The guilt, when so hard-spoken as is now Mrs Tina Heferle, is decided by an independent court and not by Tina Heferle, in the rule of law. And a second time. When it comes to the interpretation of laws and the purpose of the legislation adopted, it is the responsibility of the one who adopted the regulation and not of Mrs Tina Heferle. So much so that we are clear, because these things are going in the wrong direction and they are moving away from respect for the law and from respect for the rule of law. Please direct the debate so that the rule of law is respected as well as legal knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Dear Mr Grimes, I do not see any procedural proposals here. Obviously, you also used the Rules of Procedure and the procedural dictatorship to discuss something else. If I'm not mistaken, he's a mag. Kaloh wanted a word. Do you have a replica? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Vice President, thank you very much. I've discussed this before, so I reserve my right to a replica. Previously, Mrs. Hefferle said that people understand. Yes, I agree, people understand, they understand a lot of things, so the support of LMŠ is also falling drasticly and steadily, you are already on a one-digit number of support and will continue to do so. You said earlier, Mrs. Hefferle, when we were talking about those Roman rivers. Now I will not be teaching here, just as you have been teaching both the Minister and the Secretary of State and the Members, and so on, I find this unworthy. You may consider yourself the greatest legal expert, and we have every right to discuss here both politically and professionally as far as anyone is concerned in the legal field. It is true, however, that you are so obviously putting yourself on the pedestal of your legal knowledge — perhaps you should set a mirror in this context. With the Minister, all of you, not just the others, were discussing how he cut off from his previous duties as director as a bankruptcy manager and so on. No one has ever referred, Mrs. Hefferle, to your former services, because it's simply unworthy. Who cares?Oh, my God! What do I care what kind of lawyer you were? You were good, you were bad, you were average, you were maybe, I don't know, incompetent? That's not my job! Why should the Minister be here now – half the debate is about what he was doing in previous services. Please, come on. As far as personal discredits are concerned. You started them at the Minister's hearing session. I'll never forget when someone's even been there discussing his dress, and I'm asking you nicely how much he's earned in previous jobs that he couldn't buy himself a decent suit. What does that do in the National Assembly? That's where these personal discredits began. And that. You're saying we don't have any substantive answers to yours, on the other hand, terrible substantive interpretation. It is simply not possible to respond to parts that are materially swollen. It doesn't make sense. Where you, let's say, suggested at least some substance, but the minister, I don't know, spoke to you on 10 pages. I'm not going to read this answer in detail right now either, but I don't know if you understand or don't want to understand. I think the argument is purely in place, professional, credible. I know what your agenda is, what your mission is today – to defile the minister, because he is a member, as he himself said, of this current government. But that's just not fair. That's it. It's hospitality. We can all speak in a spoken language here, we are very exceptional orators, but that does not mean that legal argument is good. It just doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Kaloh. I would like to draw your attention to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. When we read this article about the replica, I find no connection to where your discussion was misinterpreted or misunderstood. So I politely ask everything, all of it, so that we can calm down a little bit and get back to the content. First of all, Mr President has a procedural representative, Mr Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I thank you for responding to what I was about to point out. If Mr Minister wants to have a lawyer at SDS, that's okay, but you can't use the rules of procedure, like you did on Saturday on the Health Committee. The Rules of Procedure are to be respected, but a violation of the Rules of Procedure is the path to dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	I have a concrete proposal for you, Vice President. In view of the fact that you have now found that colleague Kaloh has abused the replica and has practically not replicated in anything, but have further discussed and warned him correctly, it is my procedural proposal that you suspend such implementation without allowing the Member three minutes of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and then kindly warn him. It's not going anywhere. Then there's no such thing as an expression. So I ask you to stop this when you realize that a Member is abusing either a procedural proposal or a replica. Because this can and is essentially the responsibility of the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the cessation of such abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vice President, for this recommendation. I'm in charge of the session, and I believe I'm running it through the rules of procedure. When I react, it depends on my judgment. Replica, Mr. Jure Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Replica is a colleague of Tina Heferle, but there were some procedural proposals in between, so there was now a bit of a break. Two things. You say my readings are different, and in the same breath, judge whether I can sit here or not. I don't think you're the one to judge. Another thing – maybe you got me wrong here about interpolation. I have a feeling you don't have any other program than interpolation. And when I speak to the people, even those who have chosen you, they feel the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. He's got the word after a few magic complications. Diane Jedhan. Get ready for Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, the rest of you present, welcome! The best news today is that it's only 152 days before the election. So you're running out of time, whatever the result is today. When we talk about concrete interpolation, the findings are very concrete. It's a matter of delegating prosecutors, it's about the Minister not overriding the adoption of illegal acts and decisions in the government, and there's a lot more to come. In general, when we talk, talk, respect and respect, about three things: either the minister responsible for this does everything necessary to preserve democratic values in Slovenia; or the minister responsible for this does everything necessary to preserve the spirit and to act in accordance with the principles of liberalism in Slovenia, of course, I have in mind social liberalism; and, thirdly, we ask ourselves whether the minister does everything necessary to ensure that he does not spread rapidly in Slovenia as he did in 2000 in any other country. Does he do everything necessary to avoid this happening in Slovenia? If we go in the right order. Democratic values. We all know what democratic values are — freedom, respect for human rights and freedoms. Does the Minister do whatever it takes? I have to say, no. Because if I did what was necessary, then I would not be one of the three countries in the European Union, unfortunately, where there is already a well-known fact that democratic values in the country are being broken down because of you. Of course, this is a very important lesson for us as citizens and citizens. In fact, when we came to democracy and built it, it was wrong to think that democracy was solid and that there was no need to protect it. Your current government proves that every day, every second, every minute, it is necessary for democracy to fight, not just to develop, to survive at all. It's the other way around. The idea of liberalism. You know — freedom, economic, religious, political, visual; equality of individuals. These are the foundations of social progress. It hurts me to read that our country is being thrown into the same basket as Hungary and Poland is another country where they no longer use the expression of liberal or social liberal values but talk about liberal movement. And third. You know, the big mistake was that after World War II, Fascism was thought to have been destroyed. He's not, he's just gone quiet. All serious analysts dealing with fascism and Nazism – of course, using other terms, neofascism and the like – observe that this terrible movement, which has caused so many millions of innocent victims, has spread rapidly in individual countries since 2000, particularly in countries where fascism has not been settled, and in countries where democracy is weak, these are so-called Eastern European countries. Now listen to what is important: theorists say that it is constantly characteristic of Nephasicism, that it pretends to be, that it is not, and that it is always disguised as something else. At the same time, it's 5. 11. 2018 The European Parliament has very clearly adopted a resolution, mostly, far away from the majority. He published a resolution on neo-fascist violence and then also defined what it was all about. The normalization of fascism, racism, xenophobia and others is increasing, and the problem is particularly because at times individual leaders, rulings accept it and even quietly support it. We are wondering if the situation is different in Slovenia. No! No! If, in fact, the government top tries to legitimize right, left, extended arm of fascists and Nazis, patriots, it is a typical definition of neofascism. What did the minister sitting here do? He was as quiet as in today's debate. And that, Mr. Secretary, is not your job. A democratic society sees its advocate in the Minister of Justice. Your Honor, the D.A. sees his defender in you. Whenever someone, even though your neighbor is in government, is even in charge of you, attacks any court, you have to get up and hit the table say: “I will not allow that.” For if you do not do so — and do not do so in practice — you are essentially helping to destroy democratic values. Now there's only one thing, because I'm gonna run out of time. We have been writing to each other around the European Delegated Prosecutors for some time now, Mr Minister. I am writing to you about the danger to EU funds, and I want you to answer something. And then I am writing to you and asking you what it is like to say to Mrs Mirjam Kline, who writes that neither the Minister nor the Justice do anything and wonders whether there are still some open cases in Slovenia, where there is a need for the presence of European Delegated Prosecutors. And then just before interpolation, this is the success of interpolation, this is the great success of interpolation, read the term “temporary introduction”. And I wonder if, in all the terms we use, a temporary introduction is possible. Of course not. That's typical nonsense. Imagine all our committees in this House where we receive government and other materials. At least we have made so much progress, and the government has progressed so much that when a matter is being addressed, there is not even a vote on familiarity. When it comes to the committee and the debate is held or not, it shall be deemed to be automatic. Now imagine that when we get a report on the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant and then it's an automatic conclusion that we've come to know each other, it's a temporary conclusion that we've met. To receive the Ombudsman’s report and to get acquainted, instead of saying so, we got to know each other, we got to know each other temporarily. This morning, respected and respected – although it will sound unusual, I must say — when I prepared for today’s interpolation at breakfast at half past seven, I observed a piece of bread with jam and asked myself if I had eaten it constantly or temporarily. That's exactly the same. Then I looked at the invitation to the debate on the situation of the Roma in Prekmurje, which took place today at 11 p.m., and I look at this invitation, and I wonder whether I got to know the invitation temporarily or permanently, or if I could deny it at 10:00 that I know that I received an invitation. Then I took part in the debate, and I spoke at half past six, and I asked myself if I spoke permanently or temporarily. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? Out of respect for the prosecutors, some things should not be done to your government as such and to this national council. I am quite sure that, because of what I do not know, the opposition today will not gather the 46 votes needed, even though it would be necessary. I also told you that the only thing that matters is the number 152. But if this debate will help at least a little to make you aware that you are here to protect the judiciary to protect the independence of the prosecution, then we have achieved much. By the way, the mission of the opposition is to point out non-democratic processes, to warn of iliberalism and to point out neo-fascism. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's like medicine. If you don’t name the disease by its real name, you probably won’t be able to heal it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, you are a typical case of a minister or a team that no longer has a political culture. That's, I think, familiar. I'm not going to talk about European Delegated Prosecutors because we've heard everyone else talk about this, and I think it's pointless for me to tell you the whole story. But I don't think it's just that there's no culture anymore, you know, there's no hygiene or ethics, but even less I could say she had to be here. You are pure proof, I'm sorry, but clear evidence of these claims. I'm telling you honestly, you're not a trustworthy person. That's why you're here today. You're not just here for two prosecutors, it's about other things, there's a bunch of things that prove what we're talking about today and why you're here. But let's stop, let's do it in order. Minister, you are the first case, attention, for justice, the Minister of Justice, who is being prosecuted by the prosecution for economic crime. That's a fact. We read all this in the papers to make it so clear. We read, we see. I'm personal, I'm honest, I thought I saw everything in this government, I just don't think we've seen the bottom. We've never seen him before because day after day there are affairs, problems, problems. If I just thought about Hojs' move right now, because I'm putting you on the same team as your team of ministers, I could put a team of ministers in the first buffet in some village in the country without any problem. That's a fact. And if I think about Hoise's move, one move, he'll replace 123 leading cops in one swing. Guides. He said he'd put up the competent people, that's what his answer was, and that's why he did it. It's probably pebbles, junior. Let's leave it alone, that argument, but that's probably it. I'm not gonna talk if we just think about what we've been getting through Kustec's interpretation. That was terrible, too. People know what time it is, even if she's been through that thing. They know exactly what this is about, as my colleague Pavšič said earlier, and that is the essence of it all. Then it's your colleague's turn, you know, the minister, whose taxes are stupid. Stupid. And I'd kick the balls of a judge. That's what he'd do. But you know, do you think, Minister of Justice, we're talking about the Minister of Justice here, not about another ministry, but about justice, what did that statement mean, but you were silent? You're the Justice Minister, and you've been completely silent. Do you think what it means for the then minister to make such a statement? That's terrible. If we don't know what that means, it's terrible. So it's under control. That's what's afraid of all this. It is said that the SDS party is under the control of the court. That's what he was gonna say. That's what we understand under his terms. You're the minister here. What did you do? Did you make a statement? You're as quiet as ever. Quiet. You do what others ask you to do. Now you're here, Minister. What we read and what we read and what we see and what we hear around us — a person’s head must be grasped. I'm not gonna talk a lot about your community service because I think we've read and listened to everything. I just don't understand what the proposal was because I read in the paper today that Desus would vote against the interpretation if you paid for the municipal contribution. What does that have to do with anything? I read it in the paper today. I'm sorry, it says. It's in the paper. What does it have to do with one political party confirming or rejecting one interpolation by paying one municipal contribution? I was wondering about that. I don't know what condition you put out and what it is. I don't even understand how you've come to this, Minister, that you've reduced by one legal tactic from 30,000 euros to 20,000 euros. This is for me – I tell you, I'm quite a commercialist, but I don't know if I'd hope to get there. It is said that you already know how to push from behind and what tricks to use to get a reduced municipal contribution, and then to complain with one law to wait for them to give you the right one. How did you even get a building permit? Because I was the mayor, and I know exactly what this is about. If you don't pay the utility fee, you can't get the building permit, and you've already been building before you got the building permit. These are the black dots I'd say about you, you know. Interesting, Minister, we've been asking you from the beginning who you are. Simply put, no one knew who you were. Where did you work, anyway? What were you doing? All that's known about you is that you worked in some companies where bankruptcys took place. You're not a good manager or you weren't good, but these companies were sold in bankruptcy. It was an accident that the company was selling to a company where you were the CEO of both companies. Some impenetrable, I'd say, take over, false documents, we've heard this a number of times, tax evasion, and we've been reading about this all the time. Not to mention selling companies to some Ukrainians or not knowing what happened, I also read about it. Or take over one homeless guy's company. You're the minister. About the Minister, we need to know everyone who is the man who is in the ministerial office. I'm not gonna tell you what color his underwear is, but all the other life's things should be known to me as much. At least it's business. So it doesn't happen then – you know what it's like. I happen to think about that Hungarian minister, if you remember the one who was beating him up, he was the loudest against gays, but then they saw him running out the window at a gay party, if you say so, but the loudest thing in Hungary was he against that thing. [[…]] So I think it's right that we know what ministers we have here. Dear Marjan Dikaucič, now there is also talk about this reading that you are a friend of Roc Snow. Now you imagine something. Being friends with Roc Snowman, who is looking for half of Europe for tax evasion around and what is, in different procedures, we all know that, is the same as saying that you have a lawyer named Matoz, let's say. Since it's known that if you have a lawyer named Matoz, there's certainly no problem, you've got clean papers. I don't know, well, we've touched the bottom with this government so many times, but I can see that we haven't literally touched anything yet. He's just missing hearing tomorrow that he's become, I don't know, Director of Slovenian Railways, Mail and I don't know what else. Then you later transferred to the role of bankruptcy manager and then it opened up to you. At first you had some bankruptcys, empty bankruptcys, and then you got some profitable ones that just gave you, you just counted $90,000 of your fee, and they even refused you certain fees. And now we all ask ourselves here, Minister, what are you doing here? Why are you even here? I'm not going to talk about buying that plot on the Coast that you bought from some bankruptcy process where you were the bankruptcy manager. That's what people need to know. From this bankruptcy process, you bought one plot, a thousand thousand square meters for 50,000 euros. There you have a vice president who lives in Isolah, and he knows what a building plot in Strunjan means, a thousand 800 square meters, for 50,000 euros, with a building upstairs, is called municipal equipment. You're good. You're incredibly good. It's a random bankruptcy manager, isn't it? That's what you have to say. I can't do that. No one's gonna make it. You succeed, you succeed, I don't know, other people who buy parcels like Hoys, I don't know, other people on the Coast, and what is, it's not the source of money. Not a single one until yesterday. I won't say more than that, because it doesn't make sense, but I wanted to say, Mr. Minister, after all you've heard about what this is about, why don't you just go ahead and tell me. We'd make a better figure here if we didn't get bullied by voting or what it is. You have a chance, you come in here and you say, I'm going to step down because I'm really not a suitable person, I don't trust people and what it is. I took responsibility. You know why I can tell you all this? Because I've experienced this. I'm the only one in here I've ever experienced. And when my friend Ferjan spoke to me here – he was then a journalist of Nova24, who was also shitting on me and all the things that they were, I heard everything, we suffered for it. But I took responsibility for nothing I did, absolutely nothing. Because now everyone's confessed and apologized to me. And you here, when you know exactly what this is about, are being pursued by the prosecution in economic crime and by other documents, and all that is, stick to the chair on the loctite. That's the problem, and you have to understand, and that's what we citizens see and condemn. I suggest it's really best for you to step down, too. I don't see any problem for my colleagues here. When one pope dies, he stands up another, it's called that. In the SAB, we'll confirm this interpolation with certainty. I hope that never again — you can never say that with such governments — does such a minister come to power again. Because that's true, I'm sorry, but you really are a completely inappropriate person for the function that you are now taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mojca Žnidarič has the floor to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! I am not a member of the Justice Committee, and I am also not a legal expert, so my debate will be brief. First, there's something I want to say about the municipal contribution. Every citizen, of course also the Minister, has the right to legal remedies, i.e. the right to appeal. Otherwise, when Mr Dikaucič complained about the decision on the municipal contribution, he had not been Minister at all. But anyone who would receive a municipal contribution of about 30 000 euros would certainly check their decision thoroughly. I think it's a high amount for all of us, especially you don't expect it in some small rural congregation. In accordance with the new decision and between the amended municipal acts, which are in accordance with the new State Regulation, the Minister paid the municipal contribution. But as we all know, all these changes in municipal acts take quite a while. It's the other way around. With regard to the suspicion of the criminal offence of tax evasion and document fraud, I will say so. Children in primary school are already learning that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. The minister told us his signature was forged. For now, I take his word for it, because my word is always true. But I really don't want it ever to be proven different. Then my disappointment would be so much greater, because I also know some people who were injured in that company. If the prosecution was actually filed four years ago, as we heard in the debate, I wonder why the case was not investigated before the ministerial office took place. I'm not going to support the interpolation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I don't see Gregor Perič in the hall, so he has the word Natasha Sukič, to prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. It's amazing to hear all this. We've just heard that a colleague won't support interpolation, even though she knows people who were injured in that straw company. You can't believe this. But we're going in order. Being Minister of Justice is one of the highest and most responsible functions in the executive branch, at least it should be. And the minister should be what? He should be the guardian of the rule of law, not the one who crosses the limits of legality. However, whether or not he crosses them as a minister by realizing that the Government is in violation of the laws, that, I don't know, is signed under a criminal code that introduces constitutionally controversial content, and so on, or whether this happens to him privately, where he is suspected of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. Imagine what normal country the minister is supposed to be in under such suspicion — and this suspicion was not triggered by anyone but by Furs. Furs, my men! There was not just one anonymous man who set off a race against the minister, but he was persecuted by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you think the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is just going into such procedures? No, I don't. So they must be suspected more than justified to let one Furs into this story. Well, this minister just doesn't get through ethically holding political minimums, hygiene, which is just a logical thing for some normal countries. But the fact that we have the Minister of Justice, who is currently in criminal proceedings, respected and respected, is only a cartoon of this government, unfortunately. Why the caricature of this government? Now we are talking about the integrity of the government, with some political ethics. Three, four, five minutes ago, Minister Dikaucic was here to support Minister Dikaucic. I'm lucky or bad luck to sit very close, and what did Minister Restoration say when he left? He shook hands with him and said, "Keep up, don't listen to this." Can you imagine? The minister's here today at the interpolation, his head of SMC says, but don't listen to that. Because today, the minister is always banging something on his tablet, and he's not actually listening to us, and he's not communicating with us. So much respect and respect. This is a disgrace, and of course I will support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Tina Hefferle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Fascinating statement by the leader of the Nova Slovenija Group: it is true, it has some sins to say. Some sins, but these sins go in the direction of criminal service, tax evasion and document fraud. As a Christian, I feel that such a person, with such sins, must not and cannot be Minister of Justice. So, Minister, take responsibility and step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. I don't see her in the hall. We are moving on to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to the Minister and to the representative of the motioner for interpretation. Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! It's a long day behind us, and you can see that he's outdone himself in the evening. Although I was expecting the pire of words, I was once again surprised that the debate was taking place at such a low level. I wanted you to listen to the arguments, and I wanted some serious questions from your side, and they weren't there. I must say that everything we have heard today, and also the way that some of you have chosen, is probably a clear answer, why a good cadre, when without political bots, is increasingly difficult to decide for some active political participation. I will therefore, in conclusion, repeat the arguments and also the answers why I completely reject the interpretation. As I have already said in the introduction, and on the basis of the whole day it has only been confirmed, today's interpretation is not a criticism of my work, although it wants to show itself that way, but, as has been evident today, it is interpreting me because I am the minister of this government. I am in favour of the rule of law, and it seems particularly important to me that the rule of law is working in these times of crisis. In front of you, I will say stand, although I am now sitting as Minister of Justice, and therefore I can answer only the evidence from the authority of my department. It is unacceptable that ministers should be relieved of acts or omissions for which they are not even under the law and cannot be held accountable. Let me therefore, once again in a reasoned manner, touch all these readings, which have been mentioned in the interpretation today, and therefore say that I reject them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler, Tina Heferle, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	At such profound thoughts, it is difficult for Mr Dikaucic, who, of course, has read them once again, to say what is concrete. The Minister sat here with us for practically 10 hours, not all the time, which is understandable, but in these 10 hours, he did not give a completely substantive answer to reject the evidence from the interpretation. Moreover, when he was inactive in this regard, our suspicions or eyewitnesses were confirmed. According to the minister, the debate took place at a low level. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, what do you think of yourself as a high level, if not that you're proposing? [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Madam motioner, I apologize for interfering with your word. Please, let us be respectful and not disturb the speaker when he has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you so much for this consistency, Vice President. I'm done here. The debate for Minister Dikaucič took place after him at a very low level – so you expressed yourself, according to you, without arguments. But I wonder more rhetorically than not, what then is the debate on some high, your level, distinguished Mr Minister, if not that we are giving you one by one articles of the laws you are in violation of, the duties you are not carrying out, we are reminding you of the personality qualities that grace you, such as the suspicion of tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents. It's two crimes, by the way. Or, last but not least, the non-payment of the tax liability for the payment of the municipal contribution, which, by the way, you settled just and simply because of this interpolation a few days ago. If this is a low level for you, then on the one hand, I even agree with you. It really is a low level that we have such a justice minister in our country. Terrible, unacceptable and inappropriate. If you remember the beginning of today, Mr Minister, one of the parliamentary groups in its position was very determined when it weighed between whether to support the interpretation or not. It has conditioned support or non-support for interpretation by obtaining from you certain specific, valid reasons or answers based on some underlying facts. I'm afraid you didn't do it today. If I'm honest, I didn't even expect you to do it because there are no arguments on your side, that's a fact [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm going to have to take this one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Yeah, make peace, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Please be polite to you, colleagues and colleagues, and let's be respectful of the pay phone. Please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	I can talk through everything, too. I don't have a problem with concentration. In short, Mr Minister, the fact is that because of you, because of your conduct, there is currently no notary place in Žalec, which, as it is said, meets both legally established conditions that there must be a notary place there, a notary office. You've turned it into some complex of yours, given that you were rejected when you ran for this notary town, and that's extremely unacceptable. It is extremely unacceptable for the Minister of Justice to abuse his office and position in this way. That's a fact. The second fact that you are sitting in the Government and taking decisions in which, as Minister of Justice, you decide not to implement the ruling of the Administrative Court, so that you do not respect it, is an extremely unacceptable fact. That alone would be sufficient reason for your interpretation and for your resignation. That's all. I'll keep going. It is extremely unacceptable that you are making a fool of all of us, from the whole of Slovenia and from the wider European public, when you simply get to know two European prosecutors. Temporarily. Dear Minister, in your last speech, which lasted a few minutes – you read what they wrote to you, everything nice and right – you said why better staff or good staff are increasingly difficult to decide to enter politics. If I were a little mean, I'd ask you if you think you're a good person, given that you're under suspicion of criminal service. I think it is you who are the proof that this is true because you do not meet ethical or moral standards. You do not respect the rule of law, the legality of procedures, and do not distinguish as a lawyer between the hierarchy of legal acts, from laws to government decisions. In short, I do not repeat everything we have discussed for 10 hours, simply in the opinion of the applicants, you are not worth being a justice minister. And once again, enough is enough just one fact that should get you out of this chair, and you are burdened by more of these facts. Today, if you survive the interpolation, it will only be because coalition Members are bound by a coalition commitment not to support the interpellations of their ministers, and not the fact that perhaps your actions are not so burdensome. And the second fact is that we are in the worst epidemiological picture at the same time as the non-declaration of the epidemic. I say this because the National Assembly cannot, therefore, refer to distance meetings and ensure that Members are voted on in quarantine. Lucky for you today, that's exactly what happened. Two of the members of the opposition, who would certainly support the interpolation, are absent and will not have the right to exercise their parliamentary rights and duties simply because your government, respected Minister Dikaucič, in the face of a terrible, catastrophic epidemiological situation does not declare the epidemic solely and solely because of finances. That's a fact. If it were different, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we could call a meeting to a distance and those two Members who voted in quarantine, calmly and without any difficulty for a distance. In short, that doesn't do you any good, rather the other way around. You will survive, if you survive, only and only because of some political prestige and hold on to power to the last and for the price of anything, even at the price of the rule of law. Today, if you survive the interpolation, the rule of law will kneel only before you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see that there is no interest, so I am concluding the debate. I'm adjourning the session for half an hour. We'll continue at 7:30. (The sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Dear Members! The meeting with the President of the National Assembly is not yet concluded. I'm putting the session on hold for half an hour, so we'll resume at 8:00. (The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 20.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interpellation of Labour and Responsibility of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič. We have concluded the debate on interpolation, we are moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedural proposal by colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	President, in terms of respect for the procedure and further part of the National Assembly, I would like to draw attention to the problem we have today. The two sick Members cannot participate in the decision-making of this national assembly, because, of course, our Rules of Procedure stipulate that an epidemic must be declared in order to vote further. We have a situation where the sick are much more, thousands and thousands more than in the first wave or second, when the epidemic has been declared, we have a situation where something is already, and there will potentially be more sick Members, and the normal work of the National Assembly can indeed be threatened. I appeal to the coalition to give serious thought to the fact that, also for this reason, to ensure the normal functioning of the highest legislative body, so that all Members can participate in the work, the epidemic will be declared. The matter is serious and Parliament's decision is not a joke and it's not a joke.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Not exactly in the spirit of procedural proposals. Interpellations propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision following the debate: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation lodged, give its non-trust to Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic and discharge him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 28. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 28.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the decision has not been adopted and that the Minister of Justice has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 27th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 22.) NOVEMBER 2021 AT 20.03.)
