ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Miha Kordiš until 2 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 19 till 21 p.m., Nik Prebil from 9.30 p.m. to 15 p.m., Jani Möderndorfer from 9.30 p.m. to 15 p.m., Jerca Korča from 9.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, ORDERAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Finance proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 35th meeting, on 22 June 2021, the Committee on Finance considered the draft law amending the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the two opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In the introduction, a representative of the bill's proponent explained that his goal was to raise the general income relief from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 4 000 826. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Service had given a written opinion, drawing attention to an implementing provision which was retroactive. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill, stating that in early May the Government submitted its new Law on Income for consideration by the National Assembly. In the debate, members and members highlighted the late consideration of the bill and pointed out a reduction in tax revenues as the negative financial consequences of the bill were estimated at EUR 190 million, according to the proposalers. It was also pointed out that income is the most important source of funding for local communities and therefore its reduction could have a negative impact on their functioning. Some members have also touched on tax regimes in other countries and have warned that by raising general relief, more will be left to the taxpayers. In the debate, the bill's proposer warned that the person who is working must not be in a worse position than those who receive financial social assistance. On the basis of the opinion of the Government, a member of the Committee then proposed that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. The Committee voted by 13 votes in favour and no votes against: the proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. To present my position, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, and the rest of them present! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the applicants that the benefits for an individual or family represent not only transfers from the state budget but also tax advantages, particularly tax reliefs and tax exemptions. The government believes that this is a proposal for a law with the proposed solution in the right direction, as this means decommissioning employees with an emphasis on the principle of fairness and fairness and promoting active employment. At the above-mentioned starting points, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly on 6 May this year, is also being prepared. The aim of this law is to achieve workload in order to enable the economy to retain and attract adequate staff. Therefore, in its proposal for a law, the Government has also drawn up a proposal for a sustainable recovery of the general benefit to the level of the estimated minimum cost of living, as well as other amendments aimed at taxing workers and increasing the attractiveness of the Slovenian tax environment. Since the priorities of this government are at a time when we are working towards economic recovery, addressing key investment areas and reviving the economy, other solutions have been put in place to address the revenues of natural persons, which will also encourage or restore economic activities and encourage investment in Slovenia. On this basis, the Government does not support the bill under consideration today, since it has incorporated comparable content into comprehensive solutions to the changes to the Income Act, which, as mentioned, has already been submitted to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Finally no mask. Your Honor! We are here now: days and hours of truth. Today's vote on the amendment to the Income Act will be recorded in history as a small school of empty promises and populism. As an opposition party during the government of Marjana Sarca, the SDS has tabled four amendments to the Income Act, which sought to increase the general tax relief. In the first two failed attempts, she wanted to increase the overall tax relief to EUR 3 000 500. However, when the increase in general tax relief was announced at the same level by the government, the SDS party went one step further and proposed an increase of €4,000 with the novel. Today we are considering the fourth novel in a series with which the SDS party proposes to raise the general tax relief to €4 000 826. The novela was introduced into the legislative process in January 2020, which is more than a year and a half ago when the SDS proposalr was still part of the opposition. Since then, the year-and-a-half has delayed its treatment, instead of having already fulfilled its forecast in early 2020 and raising the general tax relief that it had worked so hard to achieve until it was in power. And that's exactly what the populist mode of SDS's operations is: the introduction of unrealistic laws that promise citizens between and milk – lower income, Christmas to pensioners, lower taxes. Let us remember how many times they have proposed to reduce the value added tax. After taking over the government, all the promises made by the opposition SDS fell into the water, because when you are in the government, you have the responsibility to hold the budget register together, although you must admit for yourself that you are not doing well, given the fact that you have spent a year and a half digging a historic 4-billion-dollar budget hole. All of this sounds very nice, of course. All of us sitting in this House want to give people more. It is true that a raise in people’s relief would leave more money, and it is true that we all agree. Unfortunately, however, we are far from doing this government under the leadership of the SDS, which each of us owes 20,000 euros, so today we rightly ask ourselves whether we will have enough resources to cover the current budget obligations: salaries, pensions, health care, social welfare. Today we have a school example of populism, which makes Slovenian politics credible. As the opposition pushes the government, let's give 190 million here, 300 million there and again 500 million there, because they are absolutely necessary. When you come to power, you completely forget the promises you made to your constituents. This farce will be recorded in the history of our Parliament. The SDS Party shall propose the law and the SDS Party shall vote in favour of the law so that it is not suitable for further consideration. Today, the leading government party promises to raise the general tax relief to as much as €7 000 at a time when the budget treasury is more impoverished than it has ever been in history. It all sounds just like a fairy tale, doesn't it? Are you sure that the new tax reform is not just a fig tree in the pocket and part of the SDS political campaign? We will not participate in the SDS's populism problem in the SAB, so we will abstain from voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Income is a direct tax; it is said that it is directly awarded to the debtor. It covers increasingly important forms of income of natural persons with exceptions and facilitations. The amendment of the law, which concerns so many citizens and citizens, is always an opportunity to perform, the correctness of the content and the wrongness of the conclusions in this regard are irrelevant. Public finances cover the overall structure of instruments and relations governing funding from budgetary resources. The most important tax revenues of the state budget are value added tax, excise duty and income tax. The revenue is the third most important source of funding for the state budget. The management of the tax policy and tax system in modern countries is limited to the basic conflict in the interests of citizens who, on the one hand, want to reduce tax burdens while requiring the maintenance of the achieved scope of public services and social well-being. They even step up these requirements through economic and technological development. The permanent dilemma and the challenge in shaping the economic policy of a modern country is the fairness and justification of the State's intervention in redistribution of social product and in the functioning of the market mechanism. In this mandate, we have discussed in the National Assembly a series of amendments to income legislation that would reduce the tax revenues of the state budget by some €100 million per year. This time, by raising the overall relief from 3 000 500 to 4 000 826 euros, the proposal would reduce by around €210 million. All of these proposals have a common feature: completely undefined and value-added substitution effects. The expectation that the reduction in income will increase the purchasing power of the population and thus stimulated consumption, which will compensate for tax revenues with higher value added tax revenues, is delusional and without a real basis. Increasing the available income of individuals could have an impact on higher private consumption, which could result in higher inflows of value added tax. The decommissioning of income, however, has the strongest impact in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-limited than other income classes and spend all additional income on consumption. To the greatest extent, the consumption of this group of taxpayers is linked to the purchase of goods with a lower tax rate and therefore it cannot be expected that income from value added tax could be increased by the value of the total loss of income. In this case, too, it is necessary to re-emphasize: income is a fundamental tax source of funding for local self-government. It is so large and important that it is impossible to replace it with any other source. Those who say that such a thing is possible, for example, to do so by imposing a property tax simply prove the overall luxury of their incompetence. So let us say directly: lowering income means an attractive political idea from a demagogic point of view, and from a practical policy point of view this is a direct attack on the financial autonomy of local self-government, in particular on the principle of coherence between financial resources and competences. The fundamental test of local self-government autonomy is the achievement of greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and the more effective provision of local public goods than provided by central government. The financial resources of local authorities must therefore be in proportion to the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution and the law. We know that this principle has not been respected in Slovenia since 2015; it is only in the past year that we have embarked on a path that promises that at least in the medium term local government will no longer be financially sub-capacitated, and there is no reason for us to start undermining the foundations. We will not vote on the proposal to amend the Income Act today in the National Assembly because the debate at the Committee on Finance was closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Have a good day to all present! Unlike the representative of the SAB party, I will talk about income, not the position of the SDS party. The income is the main and largest source of funding for local communities or municipalities in Slovenia. The municipalities are basically financed in a variety of ways, such as property, property, heritage, gifts and various taxes and charges. Other sources of funding for municipalities are collected in accordance with a territorial principle, such as compensation for the use of building land and the like. But in addition, as I mentioned earlier, income is the main and most important source of funding, which has a very strong impact. It is divided by a special system based on solidarity between municipalities. By interfering with our income, we will directly interfere with the funding of the municipalities. If municipalities have sufficient resources, this affects the development of the Slovenian countryside and consequently the economic development and employment of Slovenia as a whole. In the Slovenian National Party, we also understand the arguments for an increase in general income relief. They will now have more available income, which will eventually boost the economy through consumption. However, the loss of €190 million in revenue due to an increase in general income from €3 000,500 to €4 000,826 is not a small amount of money. As I have pointed out earlier, the development of municipalities is extremely important and we do not support such proposals in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for the Income Act, which is before us today, was tabled in the parliamentary procedure a year and a half ago. The basic basis of the bill is the fact that recipients of social assistance are privileged with regard to the obligation to pay income, since an adult receiving cash social assistance receives around EUR 4 000 826 per year and does not pay the income. On the other hand, the country recognises a total relief of only EUR 3 000 500 to those who work. The main solution to the law is thus to raise the general income relief from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 4 000 826. In the meantime, there has been a change of government and the current government has drawn up a package of tax laws, including the amendment of the Income Act. In the draft law on income, which is in the parliamentary procedure awaiting consideration, the general ease is gradually rising from the current 3 000 500 to 7 000 500 euros. The proposal for a government law is thus significantly better and even more favourable for citizens, since it means that their net salary will be significantly better. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we are in opposition or in coalition, we work for the benefit of all citizens, we want the government law to come before us as soon as possible, Members. Since the government law represents an even better solution than proposed in this law, we have voted in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is not suitable for further consideration, because, as has already been said, we want the government law to get on the agenda as soon as possible and that net salaries are paid by citizens and citizens for higher general relief. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Honorable President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The main solution to the bill is to increase the general income relief from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 4 000 826, which would result in a government budget drop of around EUR 190 million. On the Committee on Finance, you have voted against your proposal or against your colleague Tank's proposal, saying that you will better manage it with a new novel, which is part of the tax reform, and with it you will turn an even deeper hole into state and municipal budgets. Only by increasing the overall relief from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000 500 will a hole amounting to EUR 726 million in the budget in four years. 184 million in 2022, 191 in 2023, 178 in 2024 and 173 million in 2025. All this knowing that we will already have an 8-billion-dollar deficit in two years. One wonders if there's any pocket calculator in the Finance Minister's office. And that's the same minister who's been making laws with severe public finances only to overthrow the government if I use his words. Since we're doing so well, in the coming novel, you're going to lower your income to the most powerful in the highest income class. The whole situation is very similar to that in the most powerful country in the world, when conservatives in the opposition constantly preach about public financial sustainability when they come into power, leaving behind a huge public finance crater. We will not participate in the LMŠ in such a pre-election economy, so we voted against the committee. We will also oppose any similar tax proposals that intend to deepen the gap in public finances because we do not believe in fairy tales and that everything will return to the budget through consumption. And believe us, we know what we're talking about, because in your opinion, the so-called leftists in 2019 created quite a decent surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Good afternoon, everyone! A briefing by the National Assembly on the decision of the competent committee that a harmful law that brings more than 100 million holes in the state budget has not received the support of the committee and therefore ends the legislative procedure should be good news. The good news for all of us who are aware that the state must have the resources available if it is to play the role that we all expect from it. This is about a bill tabled by Members of the ruling SDS parties today, even when they were in opposition. With it they wanted to enforce their well-known ideology for all to have more if only the country took less. They do not want to know what the state will not be able to do if everyone pleads that it is too poor to pay taxes and contribute to the common good. It is a strange position of so-called patriots who, at the 30th anniversary of the statehood, tell citizens that the existence of a state is the reason why their salaries are lower. It would not be unusual, therefore, if this law had been rejected at the beginning of his journey, when the former government had responded with a negative opinion. Members of the opposition at the time managed to keep the proposal in the process for almost a year and a half by skillful maneuvering. It has also been negatively identified by the new government, which draws legitimacy from their support. But it's not good news anymore. For the new government does not oppose the law because of harmful public financial effects, but obviously because the damage to public finances is not large enough. As part of its tax reform, the government has prepared its Income Act, which will cut an even bigger hole in public finances. The Fiscal Council has estimated that its entry into force will amount to 335 million less in the budget in the coming year, and in four years it will be worth — pay attention! - a billion million negative effects. The government therefore does not stop its Members who, in its view, are too radical, but obviously because they are not radical enough and harmful to public finances. For we cannot, at least not fully, accept the theses, which the President of the Government has pointed out on Monday in response to my question, to the effect that lower taxes will bring so much more consumption, new jobs and higher added value, so that there will be no negative consequences in the budget. We don't take the hard part that everything's fine until we can make a cheap debt. We have seen too often where general tax cuts are taking place, which seem to be for everyone, and most of the benefits are only and only for the most wealthy. The impoverishment of a country which cannot therefore provide quality services at an affordable price is therefore wrong to present only one story plan; the fact that the employee will have more in his pocket due to lower taxes, but must also get a second salary in order to make the same employee with more money in his pocket perhaps more expensive to pay a kindergarten and a lower pension. Therefore, the end of the process of this marriage proposal is not only good news, but only an introduction to a difficult period when we will have to prevent the imposition of government tax burdens that carry the poverty of resources for all we expect from a sovereign and modern state. That is why we will continue to advocate in the Group of Social Democrats that the state retains the resources that allow it to respond to the call of its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much and very much! As my predecessors have already said, this proposal was tabled by a party to the SDS when it was still in opposition, and the same SDS party has now declared this proposal inappropriate for further consideration when leading the government. This tells us all about the seriousness of this proposal and this tells us all about this party. This party has tabled this proposal, as the current Minister of Finance, Andrej Shircelj, would say, simply because it believes that it is the task of the opposition to overthrow the government; at any cost, whatever the case may be, it justifies its proposals and its attempts at a solution. Let's take a look at this proposal. This proposal is harmful and, above all, is based on false arguments. As we have heard from the proposing party, the logic behind this law is this: when the minimum financial social assistance rose to 402 euros, the following imbalances would occur. The overall relief for those who work is EUR 3 000 500, and the twelve times the minimum social assistance of EUR 402 is EUR 4 000 800, and says that there is an imbalance here: those who work are worse than those who do not work. In this way, he separates the citizens from the good and the lazy, although he forgets two facts. The first is that there is an increased general relief, and that is that those who earn not up to 3 000 500, but the poorest who earn up to EUR 10 000 176 per year do not pay income. Thus, a triple what you say “does not pay income”. And the poorest workers, those who earn up to EUR 844 gross per month, will have absolutely nothing from this proposal. Absolutely nothing! That's the first fact. The second fact is that it's not about those who work, it's about lazy people, it's about a social system that's universal and our common right. Each one of us can lose his job, each of us can get in trouble and need social assistance. And you don't shoot so-called lazy people, as you call them, but you break the basic system of social solidarity in this country. At the same time, of course, you wash people away — those who earn poorly — with those who live on even worse state aids. Next. Why is this proposal harmful? This proposal is detrimental to the impact on public finances. Public finances will lose €190 million, which is in fact still a moderate amount against what you are planning now, when the loss is supposed to be there up to a billion, after your new tax reform or deformity – you are deforming the country, you are not reforming it. And we have been following this policy for a decade and a half, virtually since the first Janša government, when income from the fifth grade fell, there were three, there was a reduction in the corporate income tax, there was a abolition of the salary tax, and so on, between those years of fat cows, between 2004 and 2008. We know the consequences – already the next government, Pahoreva, who came, had to cut off investments for 500 million euros because of a budget flaw. Such a policy then continued for a decade. Central governments have cut taxes, although in a much more moderate sense than you are now doing, continued and public finances did not have the capacity to invest. And if you are wondering why no home for pensioners has been built for more than a decade, you can find the answer here — because there was no money because someone was taxing. Why we haven't had a housing policy for a decade and a half, why there hasn't been a euro from the state budget invested in the construction of new apartments – yes, because there's no money because someone's been lowering taxes. Why there is no money for health care, why we have such a bad headship for the congregations – because someone is constantly taxing and insisting on this policy, at the same time after a decade and a half people are throwing sand in their eyes that this proposal will cost 190 million euros, but it will come back through VAT. If you mean it, then I'll ask you why you tell people you'll give it to them if you pull it out of their other pocket. But you know that none of this is true. I believe there is also someone with a calculator at the Ministry of Finance under the current regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, when we talk about the Income Act when we talk about income, it is important to draw a parallel — which is important — but perhaps not the most important — with the funding of local communities. In this regard, a meeting will also begin in half an hour at the proposal of New Slovenia – I think the third – with our Slovenian mayors and mayors. I believe and believe that the atmosphere will be as positive as it was the day before the government visited 41 congregations in the Podrav region. Colleagues and colleagues, the nature of the existence of the State requires the provision of certain goods and services necessary for its operation. The task of the State is to create a framework that ensures security and orderly coexistence, and an environment in which an individual has the opportunity to develop his potential, to increase his talents, to realize his abilities, to create a family. Of course, in order to finance the provision of these freedoms, goods and services, the State must establish a mechanism through which citizens contribute a certain part of their income to the common state budget. The concept of taxes in itself therefore constitutes an intervention in the ownership right of an individual who is justified and justified in the necessity of the functioning of the State and its systems. Since it is a legitimate exercise in the individual's property rights in the determination of taxes, a great deal of rationality and caution is needed in establishing the tax system. Unwarrantedly high levels of tax burden would constitute unfair interference with the property of an individual and would have a negative impact on the motivation for his or her business and work. Too much tax burden is contrary to the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes in which this is possible should be carried out at the most basic social level. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. Christian Democrats believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational than a country in dealing with financial resources, so that only a limited amount of resources necessary for its operation can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain most of the resources they have created themselves with their capable work. The policy of excessive taxes shows a lack of confidence in the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This is a policy we are rejecting by Christian Democrats. We support a tax policy designed to provide the necessary public goods and services of a rational social state and to operate the necessary state mechanisms, while at the same time we oppose a tax policy whose purpose and consequences are unjustified redistribution, the provision of income to selected stakeholders, the reduction of motivation for work and investment, the unreasonable expansion of the public administration system, the integration of the country into the economy and market distortion. We advocate fair taxation. Taxation must follow the foundations of the social market economy. It must be friendly to workers and investment and as simple as possible. We're in favour of work-related taxation. Higher-income people can contribute more to communities than people with lower incomes, but they can do the opposite. Anyone who works more and better must have more at the end of the day. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee on Finance and today, we will support the proposal to conclude that the Income Act under consideration is not suitable for further consideration. It is perfectly normal for a government that has substantially more resources than the opposition party that has proposed this Income Act, so that the government can prepare a more complex, comprehensive solution. This is already in the National Assembly since the beginning of May and we are looking forward to discussing the government's proposal for the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on auditing within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law before you removes the individual ambiguities that the European Commission has pointed out in the process of substantive review of the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/56 of the EU amending Directive 2006/43 EC on mandatory audits for annual and consolidated financial statements. The transposition of the provisions of the Directive in question was ensured by amendments and additions to the Economic Companies Act of August 2015 and the Audit Act of December 2019. This time, the proposed amendments and additions to the Audit Act relate to a more detailed arrangement for cooperation with third country supervisory authorities or the entry of auditors and audit entities of third countries into the register. By approving the proposed proposal, this will eliminate the confusion of certain EU provisions with legislation on auditing. At the same time, the bill proposes some other minor, mostly editorial changes, on the basis of proposals received from public hearing. The draft law also includes the deletion of Article 119 of the current law, in view of the inability to deliver control measures through the information system of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why the law governing the general administrative procedure applies in the service proceedings. At the same time, it is also proposed to amend the definition of a public interest entity as it has proved in practice that the amendment included a very ambitious amendment. Today, companies in which the country or municipalities have a majority share, which is sized between small and micro-enterprises, are also obliged to be audited. As it would be difficult for such companies to claim that they represent companies of great public interest because of their nature of business, size or number of employees, a proposal is made to amend the term in question referred to in Article 3 of the current law. The primary objective of this novel is to comply with the EU acquis, but areas such as value assessment or internal audit are not subject to amendments to this bill. In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, the honourable President, honourable Members and Members, the Government proposes that a third consideration of this bill be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Robert Polnar to submit the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 35th meeting on 22 June this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. As additional material, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC members, three articles and a proposal for amendments to the Committee was tabled to Article 2 of Mr Mesca. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law removes the uncertainties raised by the European Commission in the process of substantive review of transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/56. The amendments relate to cooperation with the supervisory authorities of third countries or to the registration of auditors and audit entities of third countries in the register. Smaller or editorial corrections are also proposed. The draft law also deletes the provisions relating to service and also changes the definition of a public interest entity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that their comments were taken into account in the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. In a short discussion, which referred solely to Article 2 of the draft law and the proposal for an amendment to the same Article by the Committee, it was pointed out that the criteria for the appointment of the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit were amended or loosened. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC groups. In accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted its amendment to Article 2. Then, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the meetings of the Members shall follow. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the Audit Act are necessary, as we have already heard today, due to the European Commission's concerns about the complete transposition of certain provisions of Directive 2014/56 on mandatory audits for annual and consolidated accounts into the Slovenian legal order. The deadline for transposition of this Directive was 17 June 2016, two and a half years later in Slovenia we were able to bring the text of legislative amendments to Parliament and on 14 December 2018 the National Assembly adopted the Audit Act. The reasons for such an unacceptable delay could be discussed in length and thread, but we could not conceal with anything the dysfunction of the executive branch in particular, but also in part the legislative branches in this particular case. However, delays in the transposition of directives occur or recur in different areas. Most amazingly, however, the commitment of political decision-makers to the timeliness of the performance of the tasks in question depends on their current position: positions or opposition. In their position, they stand for the universal rush and the hunt for hands, and in the opposition, they make a smooth whistle for everything and try, as far as possible, to stall. The impression is that they predominate carelessness and oblivion without seriously considering the monetary damage caused by the State. Auditors play an extremely important role in the capitalist economy, not only by controlling the movement of monetary and financial flows and assets in companies, but even more so in strengthening control over risk management in financial institutions. We have little experience with this, and the auditors were able to ensure, at the time of the financial crisis, that there was doubts about the quality of their work and their impartiality. The need to rehabilitate Slovenian banks with taxpayers' money is convincing evidence that this doubt was justified. The quality of the audit is essential for economic stability and confidence in the markets, as it ensures the reality of the balance sheet statements and the resulting multilateral business and financial stability of economic operators. The auditing law is essential for the organisation of the market for audit services in Slovenia, strengthening the powers of the Agency for Public Auditing was necessary to eliminate the duplication between the private institution and the public agency, and concentrated control at the level of the State Agency should provide more effective control over audit companies. The legal provisions can be divided into two sets; those applicable to all audit firms and those applicable to statutory audits of public interest entities. Entities of public interest are companies with securities traded in an organised securities market, credit institutions and insurance undertakings. A public interest entity shall also be a company bound by a statutory audit in which the State or the municipality has a direct or indirect share, together or a separate majority ownership share. All these companies, including those of micro or small size, are obliged to form an audit committee, which increases the scope of unnecessary administration and in particular increases the amount of labour costs. With today's proposed change, micro- and small companies will be exempted from this obligation. Members of the Desus Group estimate that this is the most important provision of legal amendments. Others relate to the mode of service, as practice has shown that this is not feasible through the information system of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the arrangements for cooperation with third-country supervisory authorities and the entry of their auditors and audit authorities into the register. The amendments and additions to the Audit Act will be supported by Members of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Nice greetings again to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Auditing. Micro- and small businesses in Slovenia are often prevented by enormous red tape. Bureaucratation, which imposes obligations on businesses, usually contributes only to reducing their competitiveness and consequently weakens the Slovenian economy. The country should promote and alleviate the obstacles the economy has in order to create new jobs and prosperity in society. Micro- and small-scale companies are even more at risk, as regards additional bureaucratic barriers to smooth operation. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audit Act will facilitate additional obligations for these companies to a certain extent. This is not only about reducing productivity, but also about the mandatory design of audit committees, but also about the financial burdens involved. Micro- and small-scale enterprises often cannot afford new employment and additional administrations, as they have to carry out their business smoothly for social benefits. Despite the often excessive bureaucratic machinery of the European Union, the approach to minimum harmonisation at the level of the Member States, as covered by this Directive, is a productive measure. In the Slovenian National Party, we always support proposals that will make it easier for micro- and small businesses to operate and contribute to the public interest of our country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. Very well greeted representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audit Act, which removes doubts about the appropriateness of the transposition of Directive 2014/56 into the Slovenian legal order, as expressed by the European Commission in the process of a substantive review of the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/56 into national law. It expressed its concerns about the complete transposition of certain provisions of that Directive adopted by the European Parliament and the European Council on 16 April 2014. The adopted Directive lists the amendments to Directive 2006/43 relating to statutory audits for annual and consolidated accounts. The Regulation on individual requirements relating to the mandatory audit of public interest entities and to several additional legal instruments establishing mandatory audit requirements at European Union level was also adopted. The Republic of Slovenia has ensured the transposition of Directive 2014/56 and the implementation of Regulation 537/2014 by means of the amendment of the ZGD-1 and the Revision-2 Act or by-laws. In view of the concerns of the European Commission, the Republic of Slovenia has issued a notice that, due to full harmonisation at European Union level and to the wider public, provisions for the transposition of the Directive need to be adopted by law amending and supplementing the Audit Act, which will further regulate cooperation with third-country supervisory authorities or the entry of third-country auditors and audit entities into the register, thus eliminating any doubts as to the finality of the transfer. As a result, today we have a proposal for amendments to the law that, in addition to the above mentioned solutions, eliminates some of the identified shortcomings and inconsistencies of the law and editorial corrections already in force. The proposal also deletes the provision on service, as it has proved impracticable in practice and is therefore subject to the law governing the general administrative procedure. In addition to the proposal, it is also proposed to amend the definition of a public interest entity which would have positive consequences for small and micro-companies in relation to certain additional obligations which must otherwise be met by all companies recognised as a public interest entity, since the establishment of audit committees in small and micro-companies is not meaningful, since such a company has no significant public interest. Since the proposed amendments have no financial implications and due to the European Commission's warnings that the Republic of Slovenia must adopt amendments to the Audit Act in order to fully harmonise the provisions at European Union level and the wider public in order to transpose Directive 2014/56, we will fully support the law on amendments and amendments to the Audit Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! New amendments and additions to the Audit Act are necessary, according to the Government, due to the inconsistencies identified at the time of the last transposition of the amended Directive into the Slovenian legal order. Given the already established way in which the rules are adopted in Slovenia, we should not be surprised that we have a proposal for an amendment on the table again. It is necessary to correct what was not well done when the law was last amended. And even then, the majority of Members were not interested in anything but in the fact that we were again threatened by the delay in the transfer. In such cases, the National Assembly does not, as a rule, pay undue attention to the content of the law and it has once again turned out to be an inappropriate way, since the law needs to be amended again. Above all, it is worrying that such practices are becoming permanent. Above all, in the financial field, such changes to laws are substantially too frequent and are accompanied by urgent procedures, timing and errors, which are a logical consequence of haste and superficiality. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the timely preparation and thorough implementation of the amendments to the regulations. It is clear that these tasks are not well performed, that amendments are being prepared late and superficially. This 24th regular meeting of the National Assembly is also accompanied by three additional financial laws, which will be adopted again without in-depth consideration. This is not a way to create good rules, especially if there are also coalition Members assisting in this area, who take advantage of such an opportunity to lower the professional standards to be met by the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. As a result, rapid changes and harmonisations reduce the clarity of regulations as well as legal certainty. We recommend to the competent Ministry of Social Democrats that, in addition to the enthusiasm for the cheap borrowing of the country, it should ensure that regulations are drawn up and harmonised with the European acquis in a timely manner. We cannot take responsibility for such prepared regulations and procedures of the Social Democrats, nor can we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Hello! The present novelty brings the narrowing of the definition of public interest entities subject to additional requirements in the mandatory revision of annual reports and financial statements. Currently, the public interest of the company, banks, insurance and pension companies and all the companies in which the State or municipalities hold a majority ownership stake are entities of public interest. The Government proposes that micro- and small companies in which the State or municipalities therefore hold a majority ownership stake are no longer defined as a public interest entity. The latter will therefore no longer have to meet the additional audit obligations after the new one. It will also be a novelty in the area of grading the criteria to be met by the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. Newly, it is no longer necessary for the Director to be an authorised auditor, it is sufficient and only a second Bologna level of education. This measure must be raised by the brow to the observer. The proposal gives an impression that the law would be written for one individual whom the Government has chosen as its own and the only one. The existing standards for the selection of the Institute’s management are long in force and functioning, and the government’s plan to fill the management posts is also long and powerful. The question that we don't understand why the government is now lowering these standards is out of place. After us, a year and a half of the government's use of epidemic social spasms is primarily for recruitment. The Government's justification or justification that the audit institute is a less important audit institution and therefore the staffing criteria may be lower has no basis. Two key institutions operate in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of auditing – the Agency for Public Oversight of Auditing and the Institute for Auditing. The main powers in the field of auditing have already moved to the Agency, but the Institute is still responsible for a number of key audit tasks: publication of accounting standards, setting out the expertise and experience needed to carry out the tasks of an authorised value assessor, organisation of professional education and the conduct of expert examinations, and issuing certificates of expertise to carry out the tasks of an authorised value assessor, overseeing the quality of the work of authorised value assessors, deciding on the authorisation to perform the tasks of an authorised value assessor and so on. Therefore, the audit institute remains a key audit institution and its leadership must be competent in carrying out its tasks. By the way, the audit area isn't the only one. The practice of lowering competences in management personnel is becoming a pattern. The government of Janez Janša is close to lowering staffing requirements in management, which confirms, for example, the softening of standards for supervisors and administrators of the Demographic Fund. The dangerous non-pressive practice has shown its colours the most in putting a man without professional competence and with a clearly expressed society of SDS to the top of Post Slovenia. This amendment to the Audit Act will also allow for the same practice in the field of audit and we have therefore tabled an amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance to put a stop to the implementation of this non-negative regulation by deleting it. The supplement was adopted. Most of the Members and Members of the Committee on Finance have confirmed our intentions, and we now have a new amendment on behalf of the government coalition, which, therefore, deletes it. Of course, this is not the first case in the history of the Slovenian Parliament, but in the light of the year and a half of the staff and dangerous practices of bending democratic procedures, which the government coalition is stressing, is deleting the already adopted amendment nonsense. The majority of Members invited to discuss and decide on the area of auditing were clear in their vote. The proposed amendment to the Left is good and the standards on the recruitment of managers must remain high, they must play a major role in professionalism and competence, and there is no need for the SDS to have an executive of its agenda at the top of another institution. Unless the amendment of the Left remains in force, we will oppose the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you again for the word, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction, I regret that, after a good 17 years of membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, we still do not understand what the Directive, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council mean, and so on. I accept the criticisms of some of the predecessors, but there was one word missing or a mea culpa word connection. Why? I'll tell you. On 16 April 2014, the European Parliament and the European Council, more than seven years ago, adopted amendments to the Compulsory Audit Directive for annual and consolidated accounts. This is Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. And I will only talk further about this directive. Colleagues and colleagues, by means of a law on amendments and additions to the Audit Act, perform a correctional examination of Slovenia. We're on the juvie exam today. Why? The transposition of the Directive was notified to the European Commission on 8 January 2019 by means of an entry into the notification database. The Republic of Slovenia communicated to the European Commission information on the rules it considered to be fully transposed into the Slovenian legal order. In the process of substantive review of the transposition of the provisions of the Directive into national law, the European Commission has expressed its concerns about the complete transposition of certain provisions of that Directive. That's why we're on probation today. The European Commission insists that, in order to fully harmonise the EU level and the wider public with regard to the transposition of the Directive, it is necessary to adopt a law amending and supplementing the Audit Act, which will further regulate cooperation with third-country supervisory authorities or the entry of third-country auditors and audit entities into the register, thus eliminating any doubts as to the finality of the transposition of the Directive. What are the purposes of this law, this correctional exam? The proposal for a law removes the European Commission's doubts about the appropriateness of the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, as expressed by the European Commission, as has been said. The objectives of the bill are: firstly, more precise transposition of the directive into the work by which it amends Articles 45 and 47 of the Directive; secondly, the elimination of the technical inconsistencies found in the Revision Act 2. The Directive is based on the approach of minimum or minimum harmonisation. This proposal takes into account the principles of the current regulation of the field of auditing, which means the application of international standards and regulations of the European Union in the Slovenian legal order. The most important principle of the bill is the principle of proportionality. The proposal for a law is limited only to the necessary changes and additions. Colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State, good-bye! My colleagues and friends have a nice greeting too! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audit Act tabled by the Government for parliamentary consideration. The main purpose of the bill before us is to transpose certain provisions of the Directives of the European Union into our legal order. The European Commission insists on the need to adopt a new amendment to the existing Audit Act in order to make the provisions more clear in their harmonisation at European Union level. The proposed law specifies, firstly, cooperation with third-country supervisory authorities and further defines the procedure for entering auditors and other audit entities into registers. In this way, rules are being implemented at the level of the European Union as a whole to ensure that the procedures for the operation of supervisory institutions are harmonised and consequently effective. The Regulation concerns institutions carrying out audit tasks, which include the definition of accounting standards and the setting of rules on financial and business internal auditing standards, the revision of information systems and valuation methods. In addition, those institutions shall lay down the knowledge, experience and other necessary conditions for someone to become an authorised auditor or an assessor. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that a more precise definition of the procedures for the appointment and operation of auditors at the level of the European Union will contribute to greater efficiency of the audit systems. We are convinced that audit procedures must also follow the rapid development of global economic systems. Today, in fact, it is difficult to imagine that a heterogeneous audit system could effectively monitor possible irregularities in institutions acting in line with global integration trends. That is why we are convinced that efforts towards a more efficient flow of information on the information market are still in place. This is particularly true for third countries and, in the case of state-owned banks that caused a 5 billion-dollar bank hole and had branches in third countries, there was a likelihood that the audit of these entities did not fully follow the requirements of audit standards. The main task of supervisory and regulatory institutions, as we understand it, is to ensure transparency in the functioning of market stakeholders, because only a transparent system can provide the basis for fair market participation in which efficient, innovative and flexible organisations win. The new revision law is therefore understood as a step towards ensuring a higher level of systemic transparency in the common European area. We are also convinced by the poor practice of auditors in the years of the creation of the 5 billion bank financial hole, which was created in Slovenian state banks and whose amount had to be covered by Slovenian taxpayers. In short, the auditors have not fully carried out their mission under accounting and international standards, so we support the upgrading of the Audit Act to address weaknesses in the audit itself and to ensure the transparency of regulatory institutions. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the transposition of the European directives, the revision law changed at the end of 2018. The amendment of the law has significantly affected the powers of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, by transferring them to the Agency for Public Auditing. The European Commission has found that the Directives have not been properly transposed and therefore today's novelty tackles these shortcomings. More specifically, cooperation with the supervisory authorities of third countries and the entry of auditors and audit entities of third countries into the register shall be regulated. The novelty changes the definition of a public interest entity, i.e. a legal person who is bound by a statutory audit. Micro- and small companies in majority municipal or state ownership are excluded from the definition and will not be required after a new audit. The amendment of the end of 2018 provided that various acts, in accordance with the Audit Act, the control body, the audit firms and the authorised auditors, are to be served through the eDavka portal. Today, the Government has found that such service is not possible through the information system in practice, and therefore electronic service is replaced by normal service in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the same government in the Debarcation Act introduces electronic service for average citizens and notes, on the other hand, that electronic service for the most professional legal entities and individuals in the State of practice was not possible. A few schizophrenics. In PS SAB, the changes brought by the novelties of the law have been recognized as necessary and useful, so the law will benefit from our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the adopted amendment of 5. Seven. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I pass a list or applications to the list of discussers. Please sign up who is interested in the debate. The application shall be made. The first one has the word Joza Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. Yes, these amendments to the provisions that we have on the table to delete the conditions for the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing are unacceptable for Lista Marjan Sarca or I personally say that such a move is even unhygienic. I can't say otherwise, because look, the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and the audit itself somehow belongs to the highest authorities, the professional institutes in Slovenia, which do some kind of transparency, order and more in this area. If we remember history, of course this knowledge is quite young, younger than our country. The Institute was established in 1994 and during this time has been crippled and I think it has also reached the level of expertise recognised by the European institutions, and Slovenia is now recognised in this area. However, during the transition, the privatisation has been made quite a number of mistakes in this area, that many of these audits have been somewhat controversial, as we have also been following from the media, and have caused quite a lot of damage in both the social and public spheres, however we wish to hear it, and this must no longer happen. At the Slovenian Institute of Audit, people, all auditors and employees are committed to the code of professional ethics of basic audit principles and, of course, guidelines for the functioning of audit companies and more. I can't imagine that this body that has a world that has an Audit Board that has an Expert Council has a CEO. Both in the Audit Board, the Expert Council are self-tested auditors who have specific knowledge, specific knowledge, and necessary practice, because otherwise you cannot be a tested auditor, and all of this would be led by a director who would not have it. We can't agree with that. As I have said, because of external institutions, and because of integration, as this law also says – even in the past these changes have been due to the coordination of directives and everything else – we should follow all these professional principles in order to ensure this basic expertise, and leave here that the Director must also be a tested auditor, and I cannot imagine otherwise. This practice you're taking is kind of unacceptable. The new Financial Instruments Act, which you have enforced as an emergency procedure and will be on the agenda on Saturday, also reduces the conditions for the Director of the Agency in its 91st article. This is said to be then only a university of legal or economic direction to delete it. Nor is it acceptable there and I do not know what this government is, why it is so interested to delete such conditions. Do you not have sufficient expertise to enable such institutions to then act in a credible manner and have a reputation not only at home, even abroad, or do you have already trained personnel who do not meet the conditions and therefore change it, or do you perhaps not want this relevant profession in particular areas, so that certain areas are better managed and that you can achieve certain goals more easily? We certainly cannot agree with such a change to this amendment to the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. Good day again! Concerned by my predecessor, colleague Lenart, I will join and also point out this problematic work, or I will call it the core; the core of this law, which, by the way, is another regulation, but it will be in the eyes of, that is, lowering the staffing requirements at the top of the audit institute. As I pointed out in the introductions in the position of the Group, the Audit Institute is an extremely professional institution. It provides basic and not only basic hygiene on the country's business and financial map; this is its task. And there must be a man at the top of such an institution who knows what he's doing. He is not the only expert in this institution, but, in order for the work process to take place in such a demanding and professional institution as must be carried out professionally, of course he must have competence, must have experience, must be qualified, must have miles, must have CVs which have such a difficult function. But now the government is squeezing this standard, that is, the competences needed to put a man at the top of such an expertly demanding institution. Previously, the basic pre-position for the meeting of this town was primarily the status of an authorised auditor providing expertise in this area, now merely a Bologna level, either in the field of law or economy. And this, dear colleagues and colleagues, I stress, is a very dangerous practice. A very dangerous practice, which we have been looking at for a year and a half, when the government is also legally and systematically saving on the principle that it is not important, that it is an expert, the main thing is that it is ours. That's how we read this law in opposition and read by passersby to say so. This government has been an expert in the last year and a half since it took up its post, has carried out, I think, the number of good 700 human resources exchanges has set 700 of its people according to the same key; therefore, it is not important that it is an expert, is not essential that it is able to know that it has competences, the main thing is that it is ours. That is why we have perfect chaos in many areas of the country, hand to heart. See only the NIJZ with Mr. Krek at his summit and strategies for managing the epidemic. Mr. Krek has a few kilometers to work at NIJZ, but his main competence is that in key moments he is quiet and cooperates with the government or listens to the government. Look at the vaccination strategy under Jelko Kacin, for example. And the massacre that took place at the Slovenian police in the execution of police duties. The police have never had as bad a public image as they are now. And so on and so forth. In my opening position, I also highlighted the example of Post Slovenia, which is also a fine example of someone who – I don't know if he has a SDS client card – is certainly in some kind of association. The law that we have before us, in this part that I have now highlighted, colleagues and colleagues, laws clientism, opens its door wide, completely unnecessary. My question is this: Why does the government simply not come with a proposal for a law that also bears the name and surname of the person who wants to put it in this position? Why isn't this John Novak's marriage? Because surely someone in the social circle of the President of the Government or the first government party who has – and we will find out – I guarantee you, I hand in fire, in the coming weeks or months – a Bologna degree in law or economy but does not have the status of an auditor. So, the distinguished representative of the government, my question that I'm opening here, is why. What's the reason? In the debate on the Committee and so far I have not heard the reason why that decisive argument is, why these standards are falling. The standards that are now in place are functioning. The Institute for Audit has a wide professional focus on, to say the areas – I counted them in the introduction – in the field of auditing, requiring professional staff at the top, in my leadership. And my question is also whether there are really people who are qualified, whether this is now an emergency exit, because we do not have such people in a country that would have the status of an auditor and be with them, I don't know, otherwise qualified, and now we need to reduce this as we do in some public institutions – we have seen it quickly through the congregations – in this way. So my question is why; what is the reason why is the argument that lowering standards in setting your people is essential for such a damn professional institution as an audit institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President. Well, hello again, all of you! Here I would like to explain that, in fact, as with all the other personnel that have been in the past, I would like to point out that this government is actually trying to blacken itself up again to its own advantage and to its own staff, which is not true, as has been said several times in other meetings and has shown that nothing else is taking place, as has been the case with the other transitional governments. Therefore, I expect that this recruitment might be the time for the opposition to stop and not mislead further. However, I would like to point out in this amendment of the law, with regard to the conditions for reaching the post of Director - above all, what has led? It led to a real decline in the scope of the tasks and, therefore, makes no sense. The tasks have been delegated to the Agency and the Institute does not have as much powers as it had previously had in the field of auditing, which was clearly stated that, unless it is necessary to have as much knowledge in the field of auditing as is delegated to the Agency itself, then it is pointless to search for a staff for the Director with additional audit knowledge. Of course, the level of knowledge is not being reduced, which is also now meant to say that the level of knowledge remains a different bologna rate or comparable old programmes, either in the field of economics or in the field of law. This is not the case with the failure to lower standards. A second degree after the Bologna study is still needed. However, it is pointless to require conditions for areas no longer covered by the Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. You still want a word? Comrade Siter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would respond to some of my colleagues' statements, especially in the work I have already highlighted. The scope of the tasks at the Slovenian Institute for Audit has decreased. This is true, but the scope of the tasks of the audit institute still covers, I will now walk through all the professional tasks: publishing accounting standards, business and financial standards and rules, internal audit rules, rules on the revision of information systems, rules on the evaluation of values; setting out the expertise and experience needed to carry out the tasks of the authorised value assessor; organising professional education and carrying out expert examinations; and issuing a certificate of expertise to carry out the tasks of the authorised value assessor; supervising the quality of the work of the authorised value assessors; deciding on the authorisation of the performance of the mandated value assessors; and so on. These tasks require exceptional expertise, and we will all agree on that. What we see today in this political action to legitimize standards is just that. Reducing standards in an important institution that provides public financial or business financial hygiene. 0k? Lowering standards, lowering standards legally. And my question remains, given that expertise is not a question, expertise must be ensured. And the proposed regulation of expertise does not guarantee. My question remains and I would really ask the government representative to answer me why. If the expertise needs to be ensured, if it is clear that a person without a suitable CV cannot guarantee this expertise and this proposed legal change still gives him legitimacy to get this job – why is this done? What's the reason? Is it true that there are no people in the whole country who are capable and qualified to do so, or is there really someone in the back with a name and surname who wants to sit in this position and who is lucky to be near the current government? Because citizens and citizens read this law exactly because we are used to the NPU because we know the story of Post because we know the story of the military because we have heard about 700 and some personnel exchanges in the year and a half. It's a tsunami exchange, colleague Ushay. We've never seen anything like it. It's going to heaven. Dear Government Representative, I'd like you to answer. Our amendment, which has also been approved by the Committee and has been agreed by the majority on the Committee, is in the direction of deleting this controversial non-repressive provision. The amendment, which now comes from the government side, commands the deletion of our proposal to delete this disputed provision. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? If not, we conclude the debate or the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. As it is said, an amendment has been adopted on the home working body, which has reached into the amendment of Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Audit Act, in order to remain in force, provided that the Director of the Audit Institute may be appointed a person who, inter alia, fulfils the condition of the professional title as an auditor. Such a provision entails unnecessary restrictions on the invitation to tender for the term of office of the Director. The Institute, following recent amendments to the Audit Act, is virtually out of audit powers, since only these have been transferred under public authority to the Agency for Public Auditing. The condition of the professional title of the authorised auditor was necessary and reasonable at the time before the last amendment of the Audit Act, when control of the quality of the audit was shared between the Institute and the Agency. Article 2 amendment proposes that the condition of the professional title be replaced by an authorised auditor for the purpose of appointing the Director by an educational condition, by an education of an economic or legal direction, which is classified in accordance with the law to the eighth level. However, I would like to point out that the proposed proposal does not propose lowering the professional standards for the Director, but rather removes the restrictive conditions in the invitation to tender for the term of office of the Director. On the basis of the above, I propose, but the amendment to Article 2 of the bill is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter spoke once again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Just a final thought. In the eyes of the Government is the expertise, quote, “necessary restriction”. We are talking, once again, about a professional institution that is responsible for business and financial hygiene, which is concerned that corruption is not being carried out and that we are closing the door to it. But it's an unnecessary restriction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 48. At the time of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in connection with the audit report of the Court of Auditors for the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. On 9 December 2020, the Court of Auditors' Audit Report of 9 December 2020, by reason of its level of confidentiality, was confidential under the Bank of Slovenia Act and, due to its code, you received a trade secret under the Business Secret Act on 22 April this year for the protection of data in a protected drawer in the UDIS system. I now give the floor to the President of the Commission to further explain the proposal. Mr. Igor Peček, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th meeting, on 22 January 2021, the Commission took note of the audit report on the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia and examined it. Following the discussion, the Commission adopted the following conclusion: the Commission will, on the basis of the audit report under consideration, prepare proposals for the necessary measures in the form of recommendations and report them to the National Assembly in accordance with Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. To this end, a new meeting of the Commission shall be convened. In accordance with that Decision, the Commission, at its 19th meeting, held on 22 April 2021 on the agenda item of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the Audit Report of the Court of Auditors, drew up a proposal for a recommendation for the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia pursuant to Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the discussion on the Proposal for a Recommendation, the members and members of the Commission stressed that the audit report addresses developments related to the rehabilitation of the banking system, which will also burden the Republic of Slovenia in the future. It was pointed out that, at the time of the examination of the audit report, the members and members expressed the view that, given the importance of the findings of the audit report on the establishment of appropriate supervision of the functioning of the banking system in the future, its treatment should not only be completed by informing the Commission of the audit report, but should be made aware of the findings of all Members and Members. Some concerns were also expressed regarding the inaccuracy of the term, explaining that the Bank of Slovenia was not obliged to take account of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations, but should explain the derogation from the proposed recommendations, which is also followed by the proposed text of the recommendation. The debate also drew attention to the indeterminability of democratic control and stated that supervision of the European Central Bank was already under way. Individual debaters also highlighted the lack of supervision and the impact of national parliaments on monetary policy. Following the discussion, the Commission drew up a proposal for a recommendation concerning the Court of Auditors’ Audit Report on the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia, which is to be read. Firstly, the National Assembly recommends to the Bank of Slovenia to examine the audit recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Secondly, the National Assembly recommends that the Bank of Slovenia exercise its mission in a transparent and democratic manner within its independent and autonomous position. Thirdly, the National Assembly recommends that, in cooperation with Banka Slovenija, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the Court's audit report, prepare a proposal for a recast of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which will ensure the transparent functioning of the Bank of Slovenia in the public interest. Fourthly, the National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union raise the problem of the lack of democratic control over central banks and advocate effective audit supervision of the European Central Bank and other entities of the Eurosystem. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission in the text tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us recommendations regarding the Court of Auditors’ audit report on the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. We will not support the recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, nor will we support them for a number of reasons. The first proposal is that the National Assembly recommends to the Bank of Slovenia to examine the audit recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that this proposal is unnecessary. We are convinced that Banka Slovenije has examined these recommendations and has decided as it is. Second proposal – The National Assembly recommends that the Bank of Slovenia exercise its mission in a transparent and democratic manner within its independent autonomous position. We are convinced that the word “democratic” in supervision is not appropriate, as we have already pointed out in the Commission for the supervision of public finances. We will abstain from the third and fourth recommendations, the same with the first and the second. We are convinced that one part of the movement in the supervision of both national banks and the European Central Bank has taken place. Finally, we also had a visit by the President of the European Court of Auditors this week, who said that control of the European Central Bank is not the most optimal but steps are being taken. Once again, the recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I repeat my word to Mr Igor Peck to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much, once again, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Experience shows that financial crises, in particular those arising from the banking sector, cause great damage to both the state budget and the economy. Just to illustrate, Member States of the European Union spent almost €2 trillion in state aid between 2008 and 2014 to save the financial sector. In most parts of the population, too, we have experienced the effects of these practices. We had to tighten our belts for a very long time until we almost ran out of holes. As a result, the European Union has carried out a thorough reform of the regulatory framework in order to increase the resilience of credit institutions. In this way it has strengthened the financial stability of the Member States and banks are a key source of funding for both households and businesses, of course. In Slovenia, after the recapitalisation of banks at the end of 2013, many doubts were expressed about correctness, logic and, above all, the economic viability of the recapitalisation itself. In particular, in the previous call of the National Assembly, it was decided to clarify whether the Slovenian banks were overcapitalised at the end of 2013 and, as a result, the owners of subordinated bonds were relieved on the basis of contested decisions and also what role the Bank of Slovenia played in doing so. In September 2017, a new Law on Banka Slovenije was adopted, which decided in Article 52a to – quote: “The Court of Auditors may assess the correctness and usefulness of the control practices carried out by Banka Slovenije until 4 November 2014 and have led to the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.” End of story. The Bank of Slovenia is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after its operation, and it is also stated in Article 52 that the Court of Auditors is not obliged to submit a report on the resolution of the irregularities and recklessness detected in the audit report, but must explain any deviation from the recommendations. More than once, the publicly expressed position of the Bank of Slovenia that the statutory audit of the Court of Auditors on the exercise of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia interferes with its independence does not strengthen the confidence that the Bank of Slovenia, as an institution, is aware of the mission it was entrusted with in writing the Constitution. The audit report under consideration showed that there was still room to improve the transparency of the Bank of Slovenia, so at the meeting of the Commission we adopted recommendations that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government should examine the audit report in detail and, on the basis of it, prepare a proposal for a revision of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which will ensure the transparent functioning of the Bank of Slovenia in the public interest. And if we look at the matter even more broadly, the independence of the European Central Bank and other central banks is of great importance, but it is essential that this allocated independence be adequately monitored for the functioning of the European Union. In the LMŠ Group, it is essential for us to establish in the European Union a problem of lack of democratic control over the central banks, as well as for us as a State or Government to seek effective audit of the Courts of Auditors over the European Central Bank and other entities of the Eurosystem. The assurance that the terrible story of the bank hole we have witnessed never again is the establishment of a robust regulatory framework, in particular the need for central banks to carry out their supervisory function thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! After us is a decade marked by the consequences of the financial crisis. In Slovenia, its most visible and significant consequence is the rehabilitation of banks, which have been over-exposed to poor investment, when the volume of bad claims has become unsustainable, the banks are kneeling and a multibillion-dollar recovery is needed, which has also led to the privatisation of both the banking sector and an important part of the economy. The procedures for determining the capital adequacy of banks and their remedial measures were led by Banka Slovenije, who played the map of her independence and independence at all times on any instructions. It also scrupulously resisted any revision of its decisions and, despite the fact that it had decided to impose measures, avoided explaining its decisions as well as its responsibilities for their consequences. In such circumstances, the requirements for amending the law have multiplied, allowing the Court of Auditors at least a limited review of the actions of the central bank, whose independence is derived from the Constitutional Act and the European Treaties, but it also follows from the same rules that the Bank of Slovenia is responsible to the National Assembly. By establishing the European Banking Union and the Single Mechanisms for Banking Control and Resolution, the Bank of Slovenia has indeed become only part of the ECB, which is truly independent in its conduct, but it is necessary for the domestic public to say that this arrangement was not established until 2014. A significant part of the causes of bank recovery was created earlier, partly by the late and inactive approach of Banka Slovenije, and then by extremely strict measures, which have produced results, but at a high price, which will also be paid by future generations. Given the fact that banks have been invested in the rehabilitation of banks, it is entirely justified that the public and policy wanted a more accurate view of the situation. The need to learn from mistakes is a sufficient reason for such a move, but the Bank of Slovenia has prevented both the legalisation of the possibility of revision and the legal provisions and acts already adopted – even through constitutional complaints. Such an event is not a good road map for trust, which should rule between policy and central banks. When the Court of Auditors finally carried out a comprehensive audit, the report showed that Banka Slovenije, as supervisor of the banking system, did not always act effectively and successfully. At the beginning of the problems, she played a passive role for too long and was extremely strict in later action. The Court of Auditors’ expert audit also confirms that Banka Slovenije cannot be fully behind the capital assessments of the banks on the basis of which it ordered their recapitalisation and other measures; the measures under which the independent central bank was signed. That is why it surprised us and continues to surprise us that Banka Slovenije continues to reject its responsibility, even though it constantly refers to its independence. This rejection of responsibilities by the central bank, which is also the supervisor of an important part of the banking system, is a fundamental reason why the Commission decided to draw up these recommendations in order to monitor public finances when considering the audit report. In order to restore confidence in the banking system and its regulators, it is essential that decisions are justified and clarified in public, that issues are not rejected by reference to the absolute independence of the central banks, that the Governor of the Central Bank does not act arrogantly to Members and that the necessary independence of the bank is also balanced with the responsibility of the National Assembly, citizens and citizens. The Commission considered that more undemocratic control and transparency in the functioning of the central bank was a step towards greater confidence and greater transparency. The recommendation therefore proposes that the Bank carry out its mission in a way that allows a transparent view of the functioning of the central bank and that the government prepare appropriate proposals for amendments to the regulations that will regulate the position of the bank in a way that preserves both independence and trust in its work. We will therefore support the proposals made by the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia sets out in its 152nd Article the specific role of the Bank of Slovenia and regulates its nature in terms of the central bank as an autonomous institution. The independence of the central bank is a principle, which is also established in the Slovenian legal order with a certain meaning. Similarly, the principle of independence is set up to a greater or lesser extent in the various bodies operating within the judiciary. Of course, the principle of independence in a system of democratic regulation, where we know different brake and balance systems, is limited, but every intervention in this principle must be sound and well founded and directed only to an area where it is permissible and necessary. For this reason, we also assess that any recommendation adopted in the National Assembly, which in some ways also sets limits on the principle of independence, should be more specifically defined. It does not matter which area of work or competence of the central bank is covered by the recommendation. In this regard, we note that the recommendation is very general, abstract and does not distinguish between the different spheres of work and the powers of the central bank. While the principle of transparency is of course very important, it must be in line with other principles and therefore a more precise definition of possible changes in the legal order should be needed. The Recommendation provides guidance for greater democratic control of the central bank. We estimate that the definition of central bank supervision in terms of democratic control is somewhat unclear. It is also estimated that the adoption of a recommendation at a meeting of the National Assembly, which recommends that the Central Bank examine the Court's audit reports, is unnecessary. In view of the recommendation proposed in the New Slovenia Group, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Dušan Verbich. He will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, President-in-Office or Vice-President of the National Assembly. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Today we decide on the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the Audit Report of the Court of Auditors Implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. With the possible adoption of the proposal for a recommendation, which is designed within a framework of four points, the National Assembly would send recommendations to both the Government and the Bank of Slovenia on how they should deal with the review and implementation of the Court of Auditors’ audit reports, which is, of course, based on the findings of this accessible specific report. By adopting such a proposal, the Bank of Slovenia is invited to implement the audit principles of the Court of Auditors. In the second point of the recommendation, we would call on this institution to understand its independent and autonomous position as a special form of trust that enables it to carry out its mission. This must by no means be and cannot be a privilege to avoid transparency and democratic control. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that transparency in an institution such as the Bank of Slovenia must be ensured in every way, although the contents are very sensitive and have a bearing on the financial stability of the country, financial institutions, economic operators and, last but not least, the protection of citizens' savings. Trust is the basis of each stable monetary system and institutions need to be able to explain the decisions taken and to provide the supervisory authorities with the complete information on which these decisions were based. In the past, we have already seen cases where the Bank of Slovenia has not consistently exercised its powers. Among other things, it tolerated the excessive growth of venture credits, was underactive at the risk of foreign exchange credit contracts and resisted in various ways attempts to enforce audit control over its operation, including even the European Central Bank, making strong reference to its autonomy and independence as the institution of the Bank of Slovenia. To avoid possible renegotiating practices in Banka Slovenije, which you do not want to always land on the shoulders of taxpayers, we also support guidance within the last two points of the recommendation. They would call on the Government and Banka Slovenije to examine in detail the Court of Auditors' audit report and, on the basis of it, jointly draw up a proposal for a amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act, which would strengthen public interest and ensure transparency of operation. We must not forget which long ago Act on Banka Slovenije was passed, which is now in force. At the same time, we would call on the Government to establish a lack of democratic control over central banks at the level of the European Union and to advocate effective audit of the Courts of Auditors over the European Central Bank and other important entities of the financial system. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that democratic control of important institutions is a condition for their transparent functioning. In the case of Banka Slovenije, this is particularly important because it is a systemic regulator of the banking market, which must be an example to other institutions when we talk about traceability and transparency in decision-making. On the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors in its review of the Bank of Slovenia for the period 2008-2013, it is undeniably concluded that the supervisory functions of the Bank of Slovenia were not successful. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the framework of its legal and business powers, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission took note of the audit report on the implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia and examined it thoroughly. The audit period before November 2014 in a variety of ways highlights the events and decisions that have led to the second resolution of the banking system and the consequences of which will be borne by the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. In view of the importance of the audit report, the members and members of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission expressed their opinion that, given the importance of the findings of the audit report to establish appropriate supervision of the functioning of the banking system in the future, it should not be concluded solely by informing the Commission of the audit report and its findings. We have thus adopted a decision following the debate where we have drawn up a proposal for recommendations on the audit report to contribute to greater transparency and confidence in the stability and functioning of the banking system. I believe that the independent position and autonomy enjoyed by the Bank of Slovenia are tools for carrying out its mission. At the time of the economic crisis in 2013, banks were at the brink of collapse. Slovenia had a choice: to recapitalise banks with State aid or to leave banks in insolvency and to risk bankruptcy and collapse of the financial system. In the client SAB – social liberals, we are sure that the rehabilitation of banks paid off in 2013. The rehabilitation of the banks at that time was crucial that we did not have to ask for international financial assistance and that the economy began to grow again. The rehabilitation of banks would definitely go down if it were handled by the previous government. More attention should then be paid to those who dug a bank hole, not just firefighters who extinguished the fire. If the state of the bank had been rehabilitated in 2011 when Janez Janša was run by the government, the recovery would have been cheaper by EUR 2 billion. Who are those companies that made the biggest hole in the banks' balance sheets is more than clear. This is Zvon One, which made 165 million euros in holes, Vegrad for 153 million euros in holes, T2 for 131 million holes, Zvon Two for 122 million holes, Mercury for 107 million holes and Sava for 101 million bank holes. When we led the government in 2013, the country only had money for a few months and the financial markets were virtually closed. At that time, there was no time to seek any other path to recovery, such as that of the former government and the establishment of the DUTB. At that time, the European Commission did not trust us either, because the country had not acted in the past years, so we were awaiting the arrival of the troika. But in Slovenia, for example, in Greece, where pensions, wages and social transfers were reduced, where any new aid tranche was conditional, we did not want to. In the SAB, we are pleased today that we have managed to rehabilitate banks without external aid, because this also meant faster economic recovery. Given that we have followed the instructions of the European Commission, we have not been able to afford such extensive state aid, about €5 billion, without Brussels's consent. During the worst financial crisis in 2013, we rescued the country from bankruptcy and the arrival of the troika in Slovenia and thus showed that the government of Alenka Bratušek was making the right decisions at the end of 2013. To conclude, I would add that economic growth before the covida-19 epidemic, the level of GDP, the development and cessation of austerity measures are irrefutable evidence that the government of Alenka Bratušek adopted a deliberate and correct path at the end of 2013. We will support the proposed recommendation in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! During the 1990s, a high level of consensus was reached that central banks must be independent in defining and managing monetary policy. The independence of central banks is based on logic, which is at first glance consistent. The central bank's primary task is to maintain price stability and this should be an apolitical objective. The Governor does not vote in elections, so he does not have to promise everything possible or use the budgetary resources irresponsiblely to increase the possibility of re-election. The horizon of the operation of the central bank is not from today to tomorrow, nor is it from elections to elections, the central bank has no political objectives, has no ideological prejudices and is not customer-defined. It must be politically neutral and is a pillar of monetary and economic stability. That's how everyone in theory is. In the monetary sphere, the ideological dimension is only well covered by the apparent neutrality of the central bank and is thus dangerously reinforced by its practical inviolability. The central banks now possess enormous power, although they are effectively without democratic credibility and control. The European Central Bank is particularly careful not to see the potential loss of independence of the Bank of Slovenia. This is because the independence of the Bank of Slovenia is the foundation on which all the countless successes of the Slovenian economy have been based in the last decade. At first glance, the European Central Bank's request is logical and correct. What, though, may be at stake in the request of the central bank to be independent? The experience of countries such as Slovenia shows that everything is at stake. The independence of the central bank is a concept transferred from the most developed countries. The economic structure is built there, capital is available to the economy at a reasonable price, and central banks are primarily concerned with maintaining financial stability at a low inflation rate. There is no need for an emphasis on development policy. The priorities of countries are significantly different, including Slovenia, which are not at such a high level of development, as they require strong and coordinated development policies. In this context, the Central Bank must continuously cooperate and coordinate its policy with the Government's development policy. It cannot and must not ignore developments in the real economy, in particular the rate of economic growth and unemployment, which means that, in caring for an appropriate low level of inflation, it must support the country's development policy. Last December, the Court of Auditors published an audit report on the usefulness of the implementation of Banka Slovenije control practices for 7 business years – from 2008 to 2014, including. On the audit question whether Banka Slovenije justified an extraordinary statement on the relevant grounds, this is a banking recovery in 2013 and 2014, the Court of Auditors said that Banka Slovenije was unsuccessful in doing so. The good part of the material, which is very comprehensive, is classified as classified and is therefore not accessible to the public, but it is worth pointing out that the State auditors have identified the non-availability of data regarding the definition of non-performing claims and the non-unitity of approaches in the calculation of additionally needed impairments, and these calculations have been crucial in determining the capital adequacy of banks and, of course, the resulting amount of necessary recapitalisations. In fact, the procedural and political legitimacy of imposed European solutions is a crucial issue in relation to bank recovery, assessing the superiority of the rules of the legal and political responsibility for the consequences of the decisions of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia. The inviolability and independence of the Bank of Slovenia over the law and political responsibility has proved to be. The logic and language of the economy, including monetary, must not be undermined by politics and law! This is the Gordy knot we cannot cut, and this is the tragedy of this community, so we have political complications and the blockade of economic institutions that threaten the European Union and threaten the development of Slovenia. Members of the Desus Group will support all four points of the Recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation have not been tabled and we will therefore decide on the draft report today in the context of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and also interrupt the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.11 and resumed at 2 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 4, 5, 6, 17, 19, 48 and agenda item 1. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – secondly, the draft law on emergency measures in the field of health in the context of an emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 6 July 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 11. Procedural proposal, colleague Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LMŠ Group in accordance with Article 73, I request a 45-minute recess to consult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	How many minutes do you think you're talking about, buddy Golubovic?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	45.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	I'm adjourning the session and continuing at 2.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.02 p.m. and resumed at 2.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. We are therefore in the decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 11. Anybody want a word? Yeah. My friend Jani Möderndorfer. An explanation of the voice? We're at the amendment, yes, at article 11. On behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President. In Article 11, we will, of course, vote in favour in the Group of Members. This is a very important article, which speaks mainly of the part where, both in the first and second waves of the epidemic, we have in fact found that we are making an incredible difference and that this provision in the present law is essentially discriminatory. However, it is mainly discriminatory that we distinguish workers in the work process by industry or by what knowledge they have when they are in contact with covido-19. It is generally known that in health care more or less everyone is taught how to treat such patients or how to protect themselves from the disease itself. However, the fact is that this does not apply to all other professions, where the difference in remuneration is of course significantly different. If health workers and workers in social welfare institutions receive 100% compensation for their wages due to infection, of course this is not the case in manufacturing processes or in other industries. They get a different compensation. The fact is that in production or employers they are very reluctant to see that they have been infected, which is even more important, and it is very difficult to find out in fact. Therefore, it has been shown that it is essential that all those who have come into contact with the infection itself or become infected need to be quarantined in order to provide 100 % compensation and, of course, to make it significantly easier and even replace only the disease or defend ourselves with the covid. To sum up; what is important is that we in some way give equal rights to all those involved in the work process. Finally, let us mention that many are saying that it is also work from home and that, if it is, they are the safest there. You know that in the work process, in fact, not everyone can cooperate on some principle of working from home, especially because there are professions where this is impossible and the production process is somehow over. Do you imagine a working man or a working woman working from home behind a running lane? This is simply not the case, which means that if we want to fight against this way of distinction, it makes sense to support such an amendment and thereby to show in some way equality before the law, as we also say in the Constitution in Article 14, that before law we are all equal. Are we? We will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[Yeah.]] Then I'll start the list. Please sign up for an explanation of vote. One more question. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Then Robert Pavšič has the first word to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you, President. We have repeatedly been in the LMŠ Group with such a proposal, as well as with the opposition, unheard, although practice and experience show that this measure is still necessary. Now it's time to learn something from the mistakes of the last year. With the amendment that is before you today, respected colleagues and colleagues, would eliminate the inequality of employees, prevent the presentation of sick people in working environments, especially those with mild symptoms, who come to work only because of the fear that in the end this would be strongly known on their payrolls, would eliminate the current practice when some employers did not even want to recognise infection in the workplace, not because it would shed some bad light on them, but because they were in the back of a bad marriage basis, then also materially responsible because it was considered an injury at work. I mean, if someone gets sick at work, it's a real injury. Why is that important? Over the past year, we have seen that jobs are an important source of covid infection. Research by the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics suggests that this was said by Mr. Zaplatnik or Dr. Zapletnik last year in the National Assembly that in the first wave worked from home more people than now. Data speak of less than 30 percent of people in the workplace; now it is the other way around; about 70 percent of people are in the workplace. The results of these 70 percent of people in jobs show up in a large number of excess deaths, in sharper measures to prevent proliferation, and now that we have time to prevent this with only 20 percent of the difference, it is your responsibility whether you refuse us again or you will be constructive in terms of our good [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We're here to explain our vote, so I suggest you tell us how you're going to vote. The next one has the word Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it's a very important article, and in a year and a half, the government didn't set this up. In particular, it is a 100 per cent remuneration due to absence of work due to covid infection, and the current legislation is highly discriminatory, since they have professions such as health, social, protection, 100 per cent compensation and the others do not. We know that jobs have been an important source of the spread of covid infection, so this amendment would eliminate the inequality of employees, in particular preventing the presentation of workers, especially those who continue to go to work with mild symptoms due to fear of loss of income. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Yes, thank you very much. We are, of course, one of the countries that had the most infections per thousand people in the European Union family. We are at the top of this scale and this measure, which the Government has taken to prevent employees from paying 100 per cent of their salaries, was one of the key mistakes, the key measures, the wrong actions of this government. Look, people who got sick and got sick and went to work because they were afraid of losing their income because they couldn't survive because they were in some kind of fear because they didn't know what was ahead of them, and of course they infected others. Jobs – we know that big companies have worked, worked normally, and, of course, they have been hiding these infections and that's why these things have spread uncontrolledly. And more than once, even in the PKP, we have pointed out this problem that we should allow a 100 per cent remuneration in the absence of covido-19 infection, but you did not hear us. And this is one of the biggest causes of the epidemic in Slovenia at this time. We want to – of course, that is why I will definitely support this amendment – to eliminate this discrimination that you have caused in these measures to get people back. Let this measure apply from 12. 3. 2020 and then let everyone have a level playing field. Since you haven't heard from us before, it's only necessary to correct these mistakes. I hope that this will also be a lesson for the future, because you are also predicting the next epidemic ahead of us, and that then you will be too. [[turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by Aljaž Kovačič, an explanation of the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! There is an amendment before us that I will gladly support because it saves what should have been saved in recent months. Right now, we have discriminatory legislation. In other words, we do not have legislation that was fair to everyone. That someone gets 100 percent compensation, and on the other hand, there are professions that don't get 100 percent compensation, they tell us everything. Many of us have also been to an interesting meeting of the Education Committee, where, among other things, Žiga Zaplatnik, one of the types of volunteers working on a well-known project, that we even have the number of infected, the number of mutilated, said how many were in the first wave of work from home and how many in the second and where the most infections were actually. It is said that in the List of Marjan Šarc we propose 100 per cent covid hospital for employees, regardless of what profession they operate in. As I have already said, I myself will support this amendment because I want justice in all professions, and I hope that other Members will vote in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! I will, of course, support this amendment, because it should be perfectly logical for anyone who suffers from covido-19, or anyone who contacts a person who is at risk of contact, to receive 100 per cent compensation due to absence of work due to covid infection or risk of contact. Why do I think that? Not only because in such a case all citizens and citizens would be treated equally before the law – this is important if we want to maintain the reputation of the rule of law and equality before the law of all – but it is a 100 % compensation for all those who stay at home because of the covida-19, also in terms of preventing people or people who have been at risk from going to work. We know that this has happened quite a bit in the past year, but it is not against our citizens and citizens, because it is to understand that if someone has a choice to go to work, if he is a bit convenient, we understand why, if he does not get 100 per cent of the compensation, as he should belong to him or some groups of the working population. Therefore, once again, if we want to treat all citizens and citizens equally at the time of the epidemic or especially at that time, then it would be most normal to expect this amendment to be supported today. I'll get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We've been on the Marjan Sarca list so far, and I believe we've done it at least a hundred times: 100 percent hospital for everyone infected with covid. And I'm sure that this arrangement compensates for the absence of work due to covid infection is one key if we want and if we really want to go to the opposite; the people who have been hit by this accident with the infection. I believe that employers oppose this, but of course this interest cannot prevail over it, as you have often often pointed out in the ruling: life is at stake. It's about life. People just walked around and went to work, hid the disease. Hiding the disease! Of course, there is a difference between the 80 % or the 100 % refund. You've maintained this discriminatory arrangement all the time. I think it's one of the key mistakes of the government and the ruling coalition that it didn't fix last year, because the second wave would certainly not be as destructive as it was. That is why, of course, we propose in the List of Marjan Šarca a 100 % hospital covid for employees regardless of the source of the infection, and I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, President. Friends and colleagues, hello! The Health Emergency Action Act, where there is little talk about emergency measures, but only a little later. However, I would touch this 11th article. As colleague Kovacic said, the current legislation in this area is discriminatory. Some get this refund, others don't. Six months ago, you were given a study that clearly shows that in the first wave, when 70 percent of people were at home, it was much less difficult than in that second wave when most people were back physically in jobs. We have been alerting the hospital for 100 percent of the compensation for covid in LMŠ for a number of months. I don't know, I think it's necessary to say this more than once, but maybe something will happen in this room and I will support this amendment. In fact, the absence of this measure, among other waves, has proved to be one of the key errors of this government and the biggest source of infection, and I think it is crucial that we deal with this now. This amendment would also eliminate this inequality or discrimination against employees, as I mentioned at the outset. It is precisely so that those who are afraid to stay home may have some potential contact or even an infection to do so and thus protect their colleagues and colleagues as well as themselves, and that, of course, the country will reimburse them 100 per cent of their salary for their absence from work due to covid infection. One more time: I will vote for myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you. With this amendment to article 11, we propose a 100 per cent covid hospital for employees, regardless of the source of the infection. Of course, I'd be happy to support this amendment myself. But the point is that the reasons are completely simple. As early as March, we had an interpretation against Minister Cigler King, in which one of the findings was that there were no marriage grounds to ensure that the infections in the workplaces did not spread. Finally, NEJZ also found that the most likely location of the infection was the workplace in as many as a quarter of the cases. At that time, we have warned, and today again this argument is that in Germany and Austria they have acted in a completely different way since the first and second waves, in an easy way. So, regardless of the source of the infection, the individual had 100 percent hospital. In this way, employees were also motivated not to hide and perhaps even come to work sick for a reason because of course they were afraid of their reduced earnings. And the only logical move of the state and the legislator is to give everyone an equal 100 percent hospital. The errors that have been made and which have been alerted and still noted must be corrected in order to ensure that the legal basis for possible future cases is prepared, as necessary, so that what has happened does not happen. The problem is, from past mistakes, all of us together and the government don't learn anything and we don't fix it. That's why this amendment. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment and it is completely incomprehensible to me why you oppose it in the coalition and in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In my personal opinion, I can say that I will support this amendment, but in explaining why I support it, I would focus on one simple information that we understand more or less. But I don't understand why the government and the coalition don't understand. How much money have we spent on cod? How much money have we already, I'll say, borrowed to get our grandchildren to repay these loans? How much money are we going to spend on a co-vide for all our needs? However, we do not have a simple hearing for one simple measure, and this is to reach where it is most effective; and this is in the workplace. This difference, if we sum up the amount of what this represents in terms of expenditure, for the cost of maintaining not only a healthy population, but also life, until we have a stricken society, of course, does not outweigh the excuse that the coalition and the government simply do not hear it. Therefore, as a reminder to all of us Members and Members of Parliament, who are here primarily in the name of the people, but only to protect their interests and to hear them, what is really what helps us, so that we can say together that we are creating the conditions that will enable the successful to defend ourselves with the epidemic itself or with what lies ahead in the future. I therefore call on all Members and Members of Parliament to ask, first of all, what you will do when this happens to you, your family, your relatives, if this is closer to you, so that you can act more easily and decide how you need to do in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we explain our vote without a call, everyone explains how he will vote. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. 42 votes against 42. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the LMŠ to Article 13. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the MP, Comrade Kordish. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Please, if it calms down a little bit, because I think what I have to say to Article 13 is quite important. The key purpose of the Health Emergency Action Act, as the government of Janez Janša envisions, is to privatise the public health system. As citizens and citizens of health as a human right and not as some kind of marketable good to which someone will earn, defend in this country, of course, the Government of Health does not hope to privatise directly, but does so indirectly, by publicly exhausting and privately feeding. From this point of view, the Health Emergency Action Act contains three provisions to move the health system in that country towards greater privatisation. In particular, Article 13 discusses responsible health care providers, which are intended to replace the practice of so-called bilingual doctors. We know that these are doctors employed in public hospitals from where they travel patients to their private practices, which they work simultaneously in their afternoon. However, before the responsible institutions came into force at all, the coalition moved them to the future, and now, from the conditions for obtaining the responsible institution or the authorisation to carry out an activity related to that responsible institution, cuts the condition of experience that someone in health practice must have if they can be enrolled for a particular private exercise of health care. In this way, the good government has engulfed the teeth of those responsible carriers, and the doctors of the amphibians will continue to work. Why? We're going to get to those articles, the fundamental intention is that as many espions as possible, and if they're serious medical companies or not, they're going to pick up their part of a health cake that's being separated from a non-native malch for the public health system. So our amendment to Article 13 is very simple. The government of Janez Janša has been scrambling after these responsible institutions and we demand that a step be taken towards the separation of public and private activities; hence that responsible health providers come into law and come into force under all conditions as recorded in the original, because we really want public health in this country. Public health was the one that saved us from the epidemic, led us through, while private people sat by the side more or less and watched, and the government rewarded them with additional public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Möderndorfer has the floor on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The law is very clear. It defines three different words, which, of course, doctors very much like to mix between themselves with one final goal, and this is to say that they are automatic, when of course they finish medical school and besides specialization, responsible and independent in their work, which, of course, is also true in practice. However, the law distinguishes what a health care professional is, what a health care provider is, and what a responsible health care provider is. If the operator is a health care professional, in this case we refer to both the public health service and the private or concessionaire, or any administrative form that carries out health activities, the institution of a doctor with the above-mentioned explanations as to how you become a self-employed or health care provider. In 2017, we wrote in the law that we also have a responsible health care provider. This does not mean, and it is not a doctor who has completed a medical university and besides specialization, as the government's individuals and representatives and advocates like to explain, that this should be abolished, but especially those who have work experience after the completion of their specialization, but not only in the health field, as some want to show, but primarily as those who are employed in this organisation and, of course, are also responsible for the work being carried out in accordance with the law and regulations of course. What exactly is the problem? The problem is that there are a lot of companies in society today that are empty shells and there are no doctors working in the company, but there are a lot of contract doctors working in the public sector this morning, and they are also successful in their profession this afternoon. All well and well, we have a free economic initiative. But don't mix it up, it's not what some people imagine, it's also an economic activity. The European Commission also has a request on the table to decide whether the health system is also an economic activity in Slovenia. This has not yet been resolved and that is why this provision, which prevents the designation of amphibians, is also the only purpose. If we have a health system where, of course, we do not have enough people, of course, we can also postpone this with measures, and last year this was postponed for one year in the PKP. Now we are interfering with the law and this non-systemically, with a very clear purpose, as a permanent measure, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, that this is illegal. And this government is doing illegal things again. If you have this courage, come before Parliament by law with normal procedure. It's not interventional. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest. Applications shall be made for explanations of vote, in their own name. But if anyone else has a messenger's name, raise your hand now. I guess not. In his own name, first of all, Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, President. Yes, of course I will support this amendment, a respected government, a respected secretary of state. You've gone too far on this. In this effort to reduce waiting lines, you have practically exceeded and violated this profession. Look, you know the Janez Zimmermann case in Trieste. I also know. I'm a member of the Children's Heart Surgery Investigation Board. What does practice mean, what does experience mean? What does responsibility mean, what does the responsible holder mean? How much effort has been made to enable child heart surgery to function normally in Slovenia, but we have not been able to do so. And that this law even leaves those bearers of responsibility unheard of, that is unheard of! After all, doctors who work hard at doing good work cross such measures. That's not good in any way. Such a measure is professionally flawed. Even amphibians, as we said, talk about these amphibians a lot, but these are big differences. Twosieves to work in public health, in another public health institution, and much has been said — these are not amphibians. These are the people who are really passionate about working to shorten the waiting lines. However, private doctors also open hospitals under the auspices of their family members who have nothing to do with health care and others to exploit it and then work at home in the afternoon, and do not work in the morning because there are no standards and standards, because we do not know how much they work in the morning, so that they can then do this afternoon – these are the measures that we miss in this law. Not so much in mind, first of all, for private doctors. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I will vote in favour of this amendment and the facts are as follows. Janša’s government has extended the transitional period for regulating the status of responsible health care providers and has changed it from three to five years — a time for operators to regulate responsible health care providers. So now this deadline for operators applies to 17. 12. 2020, this is what your government has accepted, a coalition. See, the institution of the responsible institution has its purpose and was introduced to ensure the normal functioning of public health care in Slovenia or that the condition of quality of treatment should also be ensured in private. Now some of you are also explaining to us from the Ministry of Health that this is unnecessary. Perhaps for you, state secretaries at the Ministry of Health, who come from private groups, this is true, but this is not for the benefit of the Slovenian health system and patients. By deleting the conditions for responsible carriers, it is permanently interfering with the system health legislation in Slovenia; under the table, without debate, hypocritically, I would say even insidious. The Legal and Legislative Service warns, warns those who wish to do so, I quote, "There is no justification for these changes because they are of systemic importance." Look out! There is no reason for them to be professionally justified. And the question arises, they point out in the Legislative and Legal Service, what is the impact of the removal of working experience on quality assurance, the safety of treatment of patients in Slovenia. True, we listen to how many people go to retirement, especially doctors, and then no one has an established institution of responsible institution, and the health institution can't work. But wait! People don't go to retirement, they go to private practice, including those who meet the conditions. Second, it was the Ministry's task to ensure that operators regulate the institution of the responsible institution within a legal time limit. Ministry, what have you been up to?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	We're here to explain our voice, our respectable colleague and colleague. Tell me how you're going to vote. The next word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Slovenian private health, we have a lot of different legal persons, especially espies, and also some others, who serve basically only as shells through which public money flows, and then doctors work on such and different contracts through these medical esperies, and no one in these medical companies is actually employed. However, doctors who work through contracts in these espouses also work in many cases as full-time employees in public health institutions, in public hospitals, from where patients are diverted for the same thing that they come to a public hospital, to their own private practice, instead of taking care of these patients as part of their work in the hospital. In order to address this problem of so-called hygienist doctors, the need to introduce a responsible health care provider has been incorporated into the legislation in recent years. So if you're going to a medical firm, someone has to be competent at this company to have a license, not to be punished, to have adequate work experience and so on. Now, be careful, before these responsible institutions come into force at all, the government and its coalition have moved the deadline for the implementation of the provisions into the future, and now cuts off the most important conditions – the work experience so that any espa can continue to work further so that the Slovenian public health system will continue to fuel the problem of amphibians. Why does the government of Janez Janša do this? Because this same law on emergency measures in the field of health translates a huge amount of public funds from the public health system, from public hospitals under various pretexts into private health practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you, President. Before I run out of time, let me say that, of course, I will vote in favour of this article being deleted, to delete the working experience condition for the responsible healthcare provider. Because if this law is to be passed or this intervention law, which again introduces some permanent solutions, systemic solutions, then we are going back to the period before 2017, when exactly your government has arranged it, and today – it seems – forgets why it did so. The amendment to the Health Activity Act 2017 laid down the conditions for carrying out health activities irrespective of the status form of the operator. And today, unfortunately, we cannot as adher to the fact that this is some subtle and perfidious way of playing the system with a clear intention to privatise as many things as possible from the public. After all, the mercenary is the same — is he not? The responsible carrier is a protector against so - called hygienist doctors — we have heard that this expression disturbs you. You can also call doctors of both systems, ambivalent or amphibious doctors. And if we release this fuse with exercise, then we will actually return to the period from five years ago. Things are changing, not because they would bring something better, but because they would bring someone something better, which is a fundamental difference. And in the debate, we listened to how this was going to be the best thing for the patient. I don't know if it'll be best for the patient. Accessibility will certainly change as additional resources will need to be provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. If I'm not mistaken, there's still some interest. More? I'll reopen the application. Applications are under way. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	So when a medical student finishes a medical school and makes a specialization, the first day he can work anywhere in the world except in Slovenia if he stays this article, which we abolish with law. Here you demand that he have five more years of mentoring before he can work alone or before he can become a carrier. This means that they cannot work in many institutions – I am talking mainly about public institutions – young specialists from specific fields if they do not have an older specialist from the same area. This means that their doors will have to be closed by outpatients in many health homes in Slovenia, and the problems will also be experienced by healthcare homes in smaller specialties, where they often do not have more than one employee, for example, orthodontist, specialist in medicine and sports and so on. I've already told the board a few cases and they're all from public institutions. A specialist in gynecology and childbirth works in a small health care home where the only gynecology is. The conditions for the responsible carrier do not meet, which means they will close their doors. I'm sure he'll find a job somewhere else because gynecology is too small, but 2,000,870 women from this place and the surrounding area will lose their chosen gynecologist. A specialist in medicine, transport and sports is just before a specialist exam, and she would be employed by a health care home where they have not had a specialist for years, so they are looking forward to her arrival. This will not be possible if Article 3a applies. It's similar with the Parodontologists. 550 patients in a public institution in a row, but because they can't be a carrier because they don't have an older periodontology specialist, it's going to stop working. 3.b Article 3b of the Health Act raises problems for all those working in health care in the first place in public institutions, so I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I must say that in the course of coalition coordination with regard to this article, I have made a number of calls and phone calls myself before we decide whether or not to delete this article in the SMC. For we are aware that this condition, namely, the responsible operator of the activity, has come into law under the guidance of our former Minister of Health. But I specifically found out, specifically, at our healthcare home in Ormož, that we can shut down both pediatrics and medicine as long as this condition remains. And in every nursing home at each retirement where only one doctor performs a certain activity — whether he is a pediatrician or one specialist in medicine or whatever — so at each retirement, we should obtain a doctor with at least three years of work experience. It is true, though, that small remote congregations, if received, can receive more than one young doctor immediately after specialization, later very difficult. I also looked at the whole history of why it actually happened, so in addition to ensuring as much quality as possible, it was also one of the conditions for young doctors to stay as long as possible in public health. We have also found that the Medical Service Act actually retains young specialised doctors in public health care on condition – I think this is Article 23 – that a one-time period of specialization should remain in public health, otherwise the costs of specialisation are reimbursed. Thus, the matter is settled in another law. In fact, given all the problems that would arise in practice and other countries may have certain conditions, but they only have them for private practices, and not for public health institutions, as has been established in us so far. [[…]] Well, I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	One of the main reasons I'm going to break this amendment is absolutely to limit the legal hull. The Ministry of Health and the Government, with the possibility of a regulation, have to resolve the so-called hardships only in those minority parts that we have heard that the problem can actually arise if one of the elderly doctors goes to a well-deserved retirement and the ambulance remains empty. We can practically count on the fingers of two of such ambulances and not as massive as some imagine. It is a fact, however, that since 2017 we have accepted and had a debate on this topic. Of course, the main resistance was to the part that he wanted and wanted to open, because you know that since 2017 we have adopted a law that also dealt with other issues in the field of the Health Act – including as regards concessions, including those relating to health care providers – and therefore this measure should be seen in an entirely complementary manner. Which means it also affects the other measures that we have set out in this law. Of course, such a presentation is very unilateral and inappropriate. All public institutions, but indeed all public institutions, if they really have this problem, that there are virtually no more doctors who have either three years in the health care system or institutions on the secondary and tertiary level for five years of work experience, then we have one important problem. This means that, according to this logic, practically one third of doctors are in fact no longer in Slovenia, which of course you know is not the case. Unfortunately, the coalition and the government did not convince me at the time of the adoption of this law that such deficits are deficits, but because of some other matters, not because of the responsible health care provider. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 16 of the Group of Ambassadors. Miha Kordiš on behalf of the parliamentary group – explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Another measure in the intervention law, which is not really an intervention measure and has nothing to look for in this law, is not that the government of Janez Janša actually takes account of what legislation is written and what it is intended for. Article 16 specifically states that, as long as medical devices receive green light in two other Member States of the European Union, they do not need additional approval from Slovenian institutions for use within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. At first glance, this seems like a reasonable measure, since we are all together in the European Union. But it is not that these medical devices go through some central institutions to give up their sovereignty in these waste countries, and this part of sovereignty is transferred to European instances, but we are talking about assessments of which medical devices are okay or not, only in two other Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may have a word with you. Some crypto boys will import some suspicious medical equipment, they will get a green light from the regime in Poland, from the regime in Hungary, and then the government of Janez Janša will say, great, these medical devices already have the confirmations of the two Member States of the European Union, let us also use them with us, if they are actually useful or not. Because we know where the priorities of the far-right Eastern European governments are, also Slovenian. These are commissions, but this is certainly not the health of citizens and citizens. For these reasons, we have written an amendment to Article 16, which removes this possibility of using medical devices, which have been burned in two other Member States of the European Union, from this legislation. The corruption risks under the government of Janez Janša have been so strongly demonstrated that our assumption is probably not just an assumption, but a future fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	This law, or this amendment, will be supported primarily for one reason. In fact, it should be known that the devices are not the same as the medicines. Nevertheless, it also applies to devices to be safe and appropriate when used for medical purposes. Therefore, of course, we have certain regulations and protocols, when and how we can use them in the country either on sale or in health care itself or when the user can use them. The reason that such a device can be approved in two other countries is, of course, not a serious judgement. Why? The argument is simple. In fact, every country within its own legislation has its own rules. We could also see that when we ordered so-called testers through a public invitation to tender in our country, and we saw that, despite requiring 90 percent sensitivity, we agreed to a substantially lower one, that's at 81. One of the main reasons is that it was policy and the profession that decided significantly less. We insist that the provision defining in the law when a medical device is appropriate may be only when it is decided by the profession, but not in which countries it has been approved and sold. For this reason, of course, we will also support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. It's still an interest. Applications are under way. Please sign up who wants to explain his voice in his own name. Joze Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I will certainly support this amendment, because this is also a derogation from professional decisions, which is unacceptable. Even at the time of the purchase of medical equipment in the middle of the epidemic, we saw what was happening. The government even included the expertise to determine what was appropriate, what was not the case with fans. Unfortunately, she made a political decision of her own. And what came out of it? Million-value fans today stand in warehouses and are useless. The serviette masks stand in the warehouse, the mayors made a fool out of such equipment. Was this necessary if we did not listen to the profession? And now that we're doing this, it's unacceptable. That's why we're not going to lose anything, but we're just going to save money, money that we bloody well need to add to the people who didn't get it. That's why I'm definitely going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm also a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you, President. Although we have not signed this amendment in the LMŠ, we support it and I personally support it very much. Why? Since it provides for a derogation from the Act on Medical Devices in Work relating to the authorisation of the placing of medical devices on the market in emergency situations. How this government works in relation to the market in emergency situations, even as regards medical devices, we have all seen. The ventilator, the healer, is also a medical device. And now, quickly, we would have put into law everything that happened a year ago and millions of euros in various pockets. Even now in December we have witnessed one very interesting story at the Ministry of Health and rapid tests. The Ministry of Health only decided which tests were appropriate and relied on producer data. They simply decided to lower the standard, at least 90% sensitivity, which is less than what hospitals require for use in diagnostic procedures. But on these tests, we built or built an entire strategy to deal with the epidemic. I know it's hard to listen to, but that's the way it is. Experience and practice have shown their own, but now we want to legislate that anything can be done in emergency situations, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and Levica's parliamentary groups to Article 19. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. 600 million euros. That kind of money was a variety of covid supplements from the beginning of the epidemic to today. Perhaps this amount would not be wrong if these millions were fairly allocated and were adequately compensated and rewarded workers, the ones most exposed to the covida-19 epidemic. That's not what happened. The government distributed the supplements slightly by friendly means, distributed them to the appropriate people within the institutions and dosed them as a percentage. Thus, the one who is already so privileged within the public sector is a Mandarin in health care, which has received thousands of Euros of heavy profits on his already very high salary. The medical proletariat and the care proletariat, the servers, nurses and so on, and they received a few hundred euros, if any. This is very unfair and very unfair. What we propose with this amendment is to account for 400 euros for work in an epidemic. This is a far more just solution, such as the additions of the government of Janez Janša, which, above all, at the expense of all citizens and citizens with public money, floods the privileged part of the public sector in the manner of exploiting the epidemic for its own purposes of looting the country and transferring public funds into private pockets already in one way or another privileged first-class.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State and other present, welcome! The Social Democrats will, of course, support this amendment. The fact is that we have paid substantially more crowns of supplements in Slovenia than in any country. You know the information that last year Germany is in contact with sick people for the crown bonus paid only in health and social and only to those who have been in contact with sick people, and limited to all, whether Mrs Server or Doctor of Science is a doctor of science, with the limitation of thousands of euros per year. So, 41 times the size of a country like Slovenia paid 100 million crowns of allowances last year, 41 times the size of a smaller country, that is Slovenia, and slightly less than 300 million. What hurts the most is that the injustice is that there were two people with the patient, different educations, but they were both equally threatened, and someone got a few ten euros and someone got a few thousand euros. So, the system is unfair, they received crown supplements also by people who had no contact with the sick, and the fact is that we had a collective agreement in Slovenia that we still have. And the collective agreement was made at a time when it was not even conceivable of such extraordinary circumstances – and the fact is that this year there was no attempt to change it – but the collective agreement is only one of six cases on which the crown was unjustly distributed. The Government's calculation is that, if we declare an epidemic, if we do not change the current system, it is well known in advance that we will re-indemnify 64 million euros per month of money for the crown, which we do not really have, which we are borrowing from our grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-grandchildren. That is why our proposal is to make a rapid change in the system. Of course, only one narrow part of the system is covered in a specific article. Our proposal is simple for people who are in contact with the sick, regardless of their status, regardless of their education, to receive more, of course, than in Germany elsewhere, that is EUR 400 per month. We are aware that several other laws also need to be amended. We are aware that it is necessary to immediately enter into negotiations to amend the collective agreement, but we must do so. Imagine, the epidemic has been announced, it can take a long time, and the country does not have 64 million euros a month to unfairly share the crown of allowances to the entire public sector. That is why we are proposing and, of course, we will support this article, but there is still a lot to be changed in order to become comparable to some other countries that lead the crown of additions in a much more reasonable and even fair manner and do not do segregation among people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We're voting. No, no, no. Breakup. Even colleague Jani Möderndorfer was first on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President, for noticing me. We will, of course, support such an amendment in the LMŠ Group. We will support it with all the above reasons that have already been given, but of course one of us is particularly worth mentioning. Indeed, this provision governs only one group of workers, a very small group. In this way, however, we would like to inform the Government and the coalition that it will have to start dealing with issues at all levels. We have no objection to additions, especially in such situations. People who work with covid patients by organizing during an epidemic in one way or another, who are in contact with the virus itself, simply deserve it. And there's no dilemma here at all. I believe no one has anything against it in the entire room. The question is, in what way: whether we do this in a way that those who have a good position because of their education and knowledge will be rewarded simply because there is a percentage view of the granting of allowances, which is nowhere in the world, those who have equally entered the epidemic and in some ways contributed equally by their presence and decision to work in their workplace during the epidemic, but have a substantially lower salary, and therefore receive a significantly lower supplement. As it is said, it is actually one of the biggest traumas and pains of all people who feel almost as if they were watching other people not only abuse this situation and walk the so-called orthopedic trains and receive these supplements. Therefore, we think it is time for the Government to do something in this area and to unify the criteria and criteria of additions at all levels and in all professional groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think it is only necessary to repeat what has already been said on the committee, why I will not support this amendment. Firstly, somehow everyone wants to ignore the fact that the allowances were paid mainly on the basis of a collective agreement that has existed in Slovenia for 20 years. As we all know, the collective agreement is somehow aligned and signed together with the unions. Today I have heard a representative of the SD that they will open this collective agreement and obviously change these supplements. I hope we will soon get a response from the unions, but whatever the case, look, it bothers me to keep trying to talk about how the government has been unfairly giving these supplements and so on. The supplements, which were intended exclusively for co-vid, were for those who worked directly with covid patients. The collective contract, as I said, is something else, and this allows payment there also up to 65% of the hour item. So we have to separate some things, not mix pears and apples. I do not support this amendment, but I think it is still necessary to separate what someone is doing in this country. Everyone has a role, everyone has a function, and everyone is important in their field, and it is important that all people are paid with dignity. That's another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. And then my friend Ducky first in his own name, and then the Jew and Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. For each measure, each decision must first consider the consequences. Why some of the more intelligent societies here have performed in a balancing way, while some of the more intelligent societies have given the medical work not to the units, but to all the others on the team not to the units. My father spent 13 or 14 days in the New Town in intensive care, and other medical staff spent more time with him than doctors — with all due respect for the doctor. What are you doing? You're getting in trouble with the medical time. Health care has been a very long team effort, you are causing that, while we are already short-staffed, and we will have more, especially caregivers will go away from hospitals, they will go from hospitals younger – I hope to say first a third of the most ambitious doctors and doctors – while at the same time with this billing I understand, everyone would like to have a little more money, and in fact you are entering into Slovenian health what is already warned about violence; violence against health personnel by frustrated dissatisfied citizens, citizens, patients. [[…]] And this violence is, as a rule, more so for those who have been paid less than those who have been paid better. If, of course, beyond populism, beyond the barking of coalition-oppositions, the National Assembly was a house of public use of the mind, you would understand. And I'm so afraid I'm pretty lonely about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Once again in your personal name. Of course, I will vote in favour of this proposal because the answer to the simple question is whether people working with the sick have and deserve an addition. The answer must be yes. Do people who do not work with the sick deserve an allowance? The answer should be no. Or people who work with the sick, or are ethical, moral and acceptable, that someone gets 10 euros, someone who's standing there, maybe even less, maybe a few thousand euros. Of course, the answer must be no, for human life is not of different value and we must not do this is almost segregation in humans. [[…]] It is true that we have a collective agreement, but it is true that the collective agreement is not the only case through which the allowances are paid. It is true that the opposition cannot propose to demand that the collective agreement be opened. But the fact is, after two, three months of payments that are criminal to humans, those who now rule may propose to open a collective agreement and to normalise themselves at this point. And once again, I'd like to say, payments are made from money that's not there. 64 million a month is money that is not there, and we owe children, great-grandchildren and great-granddaughters. The Germans, who are incredibly richer than 41 times larger, do not finance 64 million a month, but only about 7-8 million a month. And they're 41 times bigger! This is what we are talking about and that is why I am going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Everyone has a role to play, we were able to hear in the question of additions as some justification for inequality, but what it translates into. In fact, the doctor's recorder has 8,000 euros in additions, and one server has 35. However, an individual doctor of an infected patient cod could not have seen him far, but he did not touch him, but the server moved among them every day. This is a fundamental injustice that the Government is deliberately carrying out and is consciously carrying out to keep the lobbying around. In this particular case, it is the medical and insurance lobby, those few privileged within the health system who usurp entire public hospitals, cities in medical institutions and the leading position in individual public institutions. Of course, I will support the amendment, which says that the additives for working in the covida-19 epidemic must be equal and that everything should go to EUR 400. More! If I had the opportunity to vote like that on the table right now, I would say that the medical proletariat should receive twice as many supplements as the already privileged parts of the medical profession. That would be fair. Not only are doctors part of the system, there are nurses, servers, after all, chefs in the homes of older citizens and housewives, all have done their best to cope with the epidemic as best they can, but the government of Janez Janša has awarded only one, it has awarded only some, it has awarded only first-class nurses and can take pictures. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 44. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 44.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 26. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	Dear Members and Members! Now we have a kind of correctional exam, if the previous amendment, which referred to the compensation, to a 100 per cent compensation for compulsory quarantine, determined by the relevant authority or doctor on the basis of infection, this amendment essentially corrects this article by correcting that those who have been infected outside work are not in the work process, that if they suffer from a 100 per cent income replacement virus, and in this way they can also do what is necessary to protect us, all together as a society, as a nation, and that is to go peacefully into quarantine, without thinking that any harm to their family or their social status will be caused. We will therefore support such a proposal in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 36 of the Group of Ambassadors. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 38(1). If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Miha Kordiš Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you. One of the two core articles on how to privatise the soft and curved Slovenian public health system is this in Article 36. We are talking about a national call to shorten the waiting periods that the government wants Janez Janša to carry out. Well, at first glance, that sounds nice. But it gets a little less nice when we go through the details. For starters, the government doesn't even know exactly what the waiting period situation is, but it does go to a call for funding. However, these finances will not be limited to public health institutions, but the call will be widely open to various private people, who will thus be greased and paid for by certain public funds. But according to the government's mantra, public health needs to be played and private health needs to be further watered with public money. In order to further increase the absurdity, 60 million will contribute to the call to shorten waiting periods for commercial health insurance companies, which have already seized 152 million euro of all supplementary health insurance insurers in the epidemic. At the same time, for example, Sava Re and Triglav purchased medical infrastructure; from the Diagnostic Centre at Bled to Fontane in Maribor, Cardiala in Ljubljana and more. Thus, the money of all supplementary insurance insurers will go into a call to which private operators will then apply, including those of the same insurance companies that have retained the supplementary insurance money in general. It's just through this business of his own, which has turned into a de facto private hospital over the last few years. If I tell you otherwise, the supplementary health insurance money will be washed through the national waiting period reduction tender and returned to the medical capitalist. It's the money of all the insurers, people have been paying and still paying the bills for supplementary insurance to take care of their health care, and not to grease commercial health insurance companies on that money, let alone launder it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We're voting. No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Anja Bah Žibert Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you for seeing my hand. Of course, I strongly oppose this amendment, not because it would be filed by colleagues from the Left, but because it is harmful. The fact is that we face waiting species in Slovenia. The fact is, we are facing people who are waiting excessively, and those who should already be at the intervention are there about 20,000. 20,000 men, respectable! We are working today not to have a national invitation to tender that will somehow include all those capacities in a country that can in any way contribute to the provision of these services. It's not about earning money, it's about doing the service that people urgently need. And among them are those that actually affect people's lives, not just human health. Someone who's dealing with who's going to do the service today needs to know something else. In accordance with the legislation, those who do not arrive on time have the opportunity to intervene abroad. No one deals with who will do these interventions abroad, or doctor A, B, C or D, but when it comes to the case of Slovenia, we deal with who this doctor is. How far have we come from this country? It does not matter to some that an intervention will be that someone will come in turn to take away his pain and return to health, and in this way he may also come back to work, but who will do it. One more thing. Although this national call wants to help reduce waiting lines, I am not afraid of who will provide these services, but I am more concerned with whether there will be anyone who will provide these services. It is said that we will find people, systems, health institutions, public, concession or anyone else who will do this at all. And that we will actually come up with an important solution. Of course I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then, on my own behalf, my fellow Brickman, then my colleague Jeraiev and then Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Look, the fact is, the waiting lines are very long. Also because public health institutions were focused exclusively on the treatment of cod patients during the epidemic, this almost stopped the activities of the programmes at the level of the specialist infirmary. Officials have been resting here and now that the invitation to tender has come out, those in public health institutions are working on a mandatory programme, on duty, on education, and private people are looking forward to serving in those dearest services for which the Minister will decide to apply the invitation can serve. It's true, it's a terrible situation, as a colleague said. Why would I vote for the amendment? It is therefore necessary for health care to devote significantly more money, to public health to provide additional programmes in public health institutions and to prevent money from leaking into private hands, and to provide dedicated money. Since private workers work especially on profits and profit is never enough, this call cannot solve this problem. And private health isn't an addition to public health, to a colleague and a colleague, but public health is an impossibility. However, the national call for tender is a waste of time and a way for this government to flow public funds into private pockets, and certainly not to those who need health care and the money needed for these health services. The public health system needs to be strengthened with more personnel, with more working groups both in health homes and in hospitals. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	In 2013, seven thousand 800 people were inadvertently waiting, and in 2021 more than 50,000 of these people. With all the grips and things, the solutions we've been doing in recent years, waiting types are only increasing instead of shrinking. Everyone can apply for a national invitation to tender. So public institutions, concessionaires and private individuals. And let me remind you that we already have this experience. In 2017, 2018 we set out to reduce waiting lines of 36 million during the time of the government of Mira Cerar and Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Public institutions applied for the invitation, private authorities applied, concessionaires applied and the realisation was – how much? 8 million euros. Out of 36 million we have actually earmarked 8 million euros for waiting species. But why did this happen that we didn't spend all our money? Because public institutions have done their job only 25%, which is understandable, because with the capacities they have with the people they have, they cannot do more than that. You can't put extra pressure on them. A month or two people can work overtime and work extra, but they can't do it for six months, a year, and I don't know how long. While the concessionaires who applied apparently, more realistically, did their services, which they had announced and signed, 100 %. So something's not working. And why don't we limit ourselves now and why don't we let everyone in this country who has licenses to perform hip surgery, nose surgery, not know what, can't get into the system and work? You prefer to keep people waiting for years and years. Last data, nose surgery - May 5, 2031. Ten years from now! Until then, let the man do what he wants. I am against the amendment, and I hope that the national call will be called upon as soon as possible and that we will take care of people who urgently need certain operations or interventions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yeah, but if public health institutions don't have the capacity to shorten waiting periods, then where do they get them from? I'll tell you. At the expense of public health institutions where certain doctors work in the morning or go to work more than anything else, they then treat patients at the same time as individuals on the contract, who would otherwise have to be treated normally as part of their regular work at a public hospital; they do not do so but refer them to their private practice. A school example of legalized corruption! This national call for the reduction of waiting periods is not intended to effectively shorten waiting periods, but rather to feed private people. Where did these waiting days come from? Why did they grow so much? Yes, because the Slovenian public health system has been subject to a wide range of privatisation sieges for 30 years. And it's eaten by doctors of amphibians, legalized corruption, overpayments in purchases and so on. And yet he's holding on somehow. And now, if privacy and privatisation have created the problem of waiting days at all, how the hell will it solve it? I'll give you an answer. He won't be here! It will not, it will only continue and the polls will be paid by citizens and citizens with this national call for public health funds to be transferred to private pockets of operators. What we should do is, strengthen the medical treasury, public instance, which is the payer of services and materials in our health care, and through this mechanism, strengthen public hospitals for public service citizens and citizens, not for private pockets and their profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 51. [[The vote was 8.]] [[against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 36 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 38 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ and SD to Article 38 under number two. Explanation of the vote by Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Well, unlike the previous amendment, of course we support the national invitation to tender, we have no dilemma as to that. We are convinced that this is certainly one of those moves that will, of course, help reduce waiting lines, but not just as fast as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has imagined. In fact, the government wants to make a call, and then with the discretionary right to simply grant programmes, as it will decide, without any clear criteria and criteria. We advocate and propose, along with other opposition parties, a cascade system, which means – now beware! — at the same time, with one call, they shall issue programmes to reduce waiting lines both at the level of public institutions, concessionaires and all those outside the public health network and having free capacities, but in principle, when the first part is filled, it shall go to the second part and then to the third part. In fact, it is incomprehensible that we have a public health system, the founder of which is either a republic or a local community, and of course we will take care of everyone else first, and then we will see whether these programmes will also be allocated to those where capacity is available. This does not mean, of course, that those who are unable to implement this programme, even though they are in the public health system, would be provided with programs that they will not be able to implement. How to draw up a call for proposals? The government has already done this and there are these experiences, and therefore the Government can prepare it in a manner that is appropriate and appropriate for the distribution of programmes. The public health system in this case, of course without the other system available and willing to participate in the reduction of waiting species, cannot sustain it, so we support the national call with the cascade system. As such, we will, of course, also support it in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	In the SAB party, we prepared this amendment and reiterated it, if you remember, even in the PKP vote. Every time we put the word on the national call, we say the same thing and we repeat the same thing now. We have no objection to the urgent approach, with all possible means, to shorten unacceptable waiting periods as soon as possible. People who are sick, unable to work, who have pains and so forth, have no interest in what kind of money will be operated on or treated. On the other hand, we, as a society, as a country, must nevertheless agree whether we support in principle the public health system or the private. Not that some of them are necessarily worse than others, but we cannot agree to a system that public health institutions cover education, the most expensive devices, the most expensive research, doctor's leave, the most demanding operations, and, on the other hand, the private sector that works in these same institutions, but only gets a plus from private institutions, a high profit. Therefore, we believe that our amendment is a compromise proposal, which stipulates that operators, of course according to capacity, are financed in this call, and in the following order: first public health institutions, then private healthcare providers with concessions, then private health service providers with permits and so on. At the same time, we set even stricter conditions for which services and what number may be included in this call, namely the essential waiting period, the impact of the waiting period on the deterioration of the patient's health and the impact of the waiting period on the duration of the worker's absence. Under such criteria and so clearly defined conditions, I think that we can substantially reduce these waiting periods in one fair way by protecting public health and, on the other hand, by allowing the private health sector to help and shorten these waiting periods as soon as possible. So please support this compromise proposal. If public health institutions do not have the capacity, it will immediately go to the others. I don't think there can be any loss here, unless it's really just about funding ours and helping certain private people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the Ambassador's Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, President. We support the national problem. I am also pleased that with drilling, we have revealed with questions that private health insurance companies have deposited 62 million reservations last year, and that this money will now go clearly, which is also right, to purchase additional health services. This money needs to be added, of course, from an integral source, and from any other source, patients need to have the advantage. The worst thing is, at this point, people are also waiting for surgery if they have cancer, and they're waiting for some other things that are threatening their lives. This is not just about the quality of life, but about life itself. So we support the national eradication programme. He was successfully performed once when Dr. Dorian Marušič was a medical doctor and mathematician. We are aware that even if it is successfully carried out, if we do not eliminate the causes, we will face it again in time. Why are we defending the cascade system? It is understandable that if we have public hospitals, that the first thing we have to do is fill the capacities in these hospitals, because we do not, at the end of the day, even with public money. There are also doctors who study inside, who from there, even when they are sick, get sick and so on. It is therefore quite clear that in the first step it is necessary to fill in, verify how much free capacity is available in hospitals, and then immediately also check how much free capacity is available in the second part of public health, i.e. in concessionaires who also have special duties, but also the right to a healthcare system. In addition, it is necessary to examine how much free capacity is still available in that part of the healthcare system which does not have concessions. What is also absolutely necessary if in all three parts of health care it is found that there is not enough capacity to do certain things, that there is too little capacity for emergency operations, emergency checks and so on, and that these people are also allowed to go abroad. So people need help. But once again, I stress why we are for a stunted system. Because if we have a state hospital, it's not the most normal thing to do everything to have full capacity. There's got to be an order. I don't say yes or agree that the information sent by public hospitals should be false if sent by a private person, but credible. And the system must be so designed that whoever says that he has 20 seats for operations, for investigations and when he signs the contract that if he fails to do so, he is sanctioned. Whether it is a state hospital, whether it is a concessionary or a private one; anyone who fails to fulfil what is part of his contract must be sanctioned. And the system, if we want to maintain public health, we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MP? My friend Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. The cascade system of distribution of public funds at first sight looks okay. That's what it sounds like. If we give public money to shorten waiting periods, then, of course, public institutions, hospitals, health homes, then concessionaries, which are part of the public network – we still see them as private – and then really clean, clean and proper individuals. Unfortunately, this concept does not survive the meeting with the reality, where the medical, insurance lobby will make sure that as many assets as possible are melted into private pockets and private practices. A few articles back just talked about doctors' amphibians. Exactly, these power carriers are also in public hospitals, and you know that they will not spit in their bowls and make sure that the public hospital does not have the capacity, and all of a sudden the capacity will be found in the various espionagees, the employees without the serious responsible health care providers to whom you have drawn up the condition of working experience. For this reason, we oppose the cascade system, but the amendment of the remaining opposition colleagues is slightly better than pure Texas in the distribution of public funds among individuals, as entered into the law by the government of Janez Janša. Since our amendment to draw up this national invitation to tender — in fact, the cover for the distribution of public funds in private pockets — has not been accepted, it has fallen. We have an option here to vote still for Texas, but a little less Texas. That's how we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Colleague Jeraj, on behalf of the MP? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	I would like to know why in 2017 to 2018, when we first launched this national call, you did not propose a cascade system. Again, it's just a matter of duality and mere conjecture. In fact, in the same way that it didn't work out at the time, it doesn't make any sense to save again. Some of you have said that we want to help hospitals and private people; we want to help people who have been waiting years and years for a service that they should receive and pay for. They pay health insurance every month and pay extra health insurance every month and they don't get the services. The orthopedic clinic cannot provide enough operations, it costs EUR 6 000 500 to a private person, and everyone cannot afford it because it gives money to the public health system, pays insurance and should receive this service. And not only do we have this person on weekly, monthly, long-term sick leave, at the Department of Health Insurance, who pays him this hospital for weeks, months and years, instead of operating on him as soon as possible and getting him back to work so that the cash can be filled. And that's just another obstacle. See, in 2017, without a cascade system, we realized very poorly, 8 million we just realized. Now we're putting on another obstacle that's going to take longer and longer. Look, the clinical center in Ljubljana said he'd do 200 surgeries, he'd done 100. A fellow Jew tells us to punish him. How are you going to punish him? You can only punish him so that now that he's applying for 200 surgeries again, we'll say we don't believe you'll make them, because you're only a hundred last time, and we'll give you a hundred. However, everyone enters into a contract and is paid only after the realization. So the only problem is that he's occupied these hundred operations that someone else would have done. And the cascade system means that the clinical center will then say October, yeah look, sorry, we can't do that. Now, in one month, let a concessionaire do a miracle! He can't make it. I therefore object to this and I think that it is just as appropriate a solution as it is in law, and that we do not need any additional obstacles so that we cannot put these 60 million into the system, in fact to quickly eliminate those waiting types that we have been looking at together for years and for which we have not found any first way to eliminate them. I think that the national invitation to tender is the right way and that we do not need any additional obstacles that you want to introduce with the cascade system. Because, like I said, three years ago, four years ago, when you were preparing a national call, you didn't propose that, of course, because you knew that was another obstacle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Also a colleague of Jože Horvat on behalf of [[…]] Procedurally, colleague deaan jedan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Look, Mr President, there are people who don't want to break the rules of procedure, and there are different people. The Member State has led the debate with me, and I cannot lead back because it must not be in accordance with the rules of procedure. However, I want those who respect the rules of procedure that we respect in order to protect us. Such things need to be stopped, and I ask you to do so in the future. I can't answer that, because it's not allowed to lead a controversy when we explain our voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	No, Comrade Dean Jedhan, I disagree with you. I think a colleague of Jerai's just said why they wouldn't vote on this amendment, of course, in a broader way, but it was within the framework of permissibility. He still has a colleague, Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We will vote against this amendment. Why? Because we respect the freedom to choose a doctor. This isn't about cascade freedom, it's about freedom to choose a doctor. Because we also have the Patients' Rights Act, we don't have the Cascade Patients' Rights Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] But I can see that there's some interest in my own name, so I'm going to set up a list application. Please sign up. The first one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not argue with other Members and Members, I just want to say why I will vote in favour of our proposal. I do not distinguish between making more credible promises made by private individuals to make public hospital directors or heads of public hospitals unworthy. At some point, every promise is credible, so I will have to believe in every promise that she makes, we have 200 capacity for the operation by the end of 10 or 20, at some point. Another time. I am also aware that in recent years, the fact that the national programme has often not been implemented is quite clear why; because it was too late. And if the surgery program is signed in mid-summer, we really only have a few months left, because surgeons, in spite of everything in the hottest days, if possible, do not want to operate, because then the healing process is completely different; it is more complicated and more complicated. That's understandable. I believe, however, that if we believe that we have public institutions, we have them, even in the parliamentary procedure, there is a law that is supposed to finance two billion euros to build new, adapt old state hospitals. I hope we all understand that we're going to want to fill these spaces as much as possible, because otherwise it's a waste of money. And then it's quite clear that we're going to try to fill in by giving them an extra program. However, an additional programme can also be made possible through a national call for them to take precedence. However, it is quite clear — and I demand it myself — even now that I am voting in favour of a proposal for a cascade system that those who sign a contract or who make an oral or written commitment to do something must do so. If he doesn't, I'm the first, but I don't care if he's a private contractor, whether he's a public, state contractor or an operator from abroad, if he doesn't, because he's a patient who needs help. So, I'm going to vote for the stunt system, because it's also part of maintaining public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	The cascade system, when a person signs it, means very clearly that when he signs and assigns programmes to reduce waiting types, he must, of course, require the following information from the contractor: how much free capacity he has, how many teams he can carry out, and more importantly, when the contract is signed and programmes are allocated, someone must not sleep all year long, as some have been asleep when preparing for the second wave of the epidemic, but must monitor and monitor how it is carried out monthly. Which means that when, of course, if you have an appropriate contract signed, someone does not implement the plan in a consistent manner, the actual implementation of the waiting species reduction programme, of course, is appropriate, and by a clause, the provision, with a delay, everything can be arranged, if, of course, the interest, simply goes to the one who can do it without a second call. Therefore, misleading that someone will not be able and that at the end of the year we will find that he has not found out is, of course, a pure demagogic approach, which has only one objective: to exercise discretion in order to have the power to share any interest, as he will, of course, assess, his friends, his relationships. Even those who want and will have free capacity will simply not get it if they do not have a good relationship with the Minister, with the Secretary of State or with those who will eventually control the whole process. Therefore, a cascade system, a clear call, clear criteria and criteria, and, of course, also a contract with custodians to control the whole system, is needed. If we're not capable of this, then, excuse me, let's close the door and stop going national!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is from colleague Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Yes, thank you very much. It is necessary to monitor, to withdraw, to be punished, all of this has been done in 2017, when the national call was made and eight million out of 36 million have been distributed or spent. The next time I have time, I will be happy to hear how everyone has been punished and what has been done. Now, why don't we support this amendment? It is a two-year measure, it is a temporary measure and it is exclusively a matter of getting services as soon as possible. I say it's been 14 days or a month for someone too long. And why complicate things that we can make easier? But once again, I am not afraid of who will perform in this sense, either public institutions or those with concessions or third ones. I'm afraid there will be no one who can easily perform because we have insufficient human resources in the country. I just hope that we will take this call forward and that we will not end up finding that, despite the invitation to tender, we have not yet spent all the resources that we can. Therefore, I would also like the Ministry to do everything possible to share these funds with the responsibility of those who apply. I certainly don't support this stunt in this sense, because it's only been stalling for too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you. I'm not going to argue, but my colleague already told me the point. If we have too little human resources in the country, then don't fool me into choosing doctors. I have a personal doctor in church because at that moment in Maribor I couldn't get him. It's the same as if you from Ljubljana, I don't know, went to Unec to see a personal doctor. A colleague who wanted to argue with Dejan – we do not have just one clinical center; we have two which are also university clinical centres. An integral part of the medical study, a medical care study, a clinical pharmacology study, and a clinical psychology study I forgot something else, is a clinic. That's why we need the engines there. And we haven't performed any surgeries at the Maribor clinical centre in seven years because they didn't answer to someone at the Ljubljana Clinical Center. And then Janša's government and your government and our government and some other government. We in the field of orthodontism have casinos where some family, by the way, Ljubljana, held these specialties. And here is the question of who will go and where the policy of Slovenian public health will go. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 44. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left Party and the LMŠ to Article 40 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	This amendment and the proposal, of course, speak mainly of some retroactively getting a work allowance back because the government recognized them as a very important factor in the codida era. Among other things, it is the directors of city administrations, with an additional amendment, chiefs of administrative units and officials were added yesterday. I have said on a number of occasions myself that I absolutely do not mind if they receive supplements, of course, from some who are involved in this process. But I wonder – and that is why we support such a proposal in the LMŠ – I wonder how they, say, have forgotten in the government and the coalition on firefighters. For example, today, former speaker Mr Jelko Kacin said that firefighters will invite one of the main people who know everyone in Slovenia to the vaccination and I do not know what else. But you keep forgetting them. More! This same government against them, of course – now they even have a warning strike because it does not want to be aligned with them and, of course, arrange for them to receive an allowance. And this is the inequality and injustice that this government is going on and on. We therefore, of course, support this amendment in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 40 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 41. Explanation of Miha Kordiš's voice on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	A third provision is how to make it easy to privatise the Slovenian public health system in such a way as to exhaust public health care, not to give it adequate investment, money and personnel, but to direct resources among individuals. Article 41 refers to the fact that programmes which public health institutions, especially hospitals, could not be implemented in the epidemic, could not be passed on to private individuals. Of course, hospitals, logically, couldn't perform their regular programs and interventions because they were protecting us in the covida-19 epidemic. Officials, on the other hand, mostly sat on the side and monitored the situation only as observers. And this public health sector, which has protected us even at the highest peaks of the covida-19 epidemic, despite the drastic conditions in which past privatisation has taken place, will now be rewarded with no more resources, more investments, additional programmes and human resources incentives, but with the fact that these programmes and the funds that go through the programmes will be transferred to privacy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is happening in anticipation of the fourth wave of delta radiation, which is supposed to give us a good slap in the fall. And we've seen in past covida-19 waves that in countries that have been betting on a private health system, that the epidemic is the worst because private health systems have collapsed like a house of cards, and we have also seen public health as the one that protected us in the epidemic. Public health, public hospitals were the ones carrying the epidemic, not the private ones! But Janez Janš's government would still have little money, little money, compared to what needs citizens and citizens should meet, take away and devote it to various parts, espems that do not work for health as a human right, but work from a healthy business. We propose that this privatisation transfer of programmes from public hospitals to private hospitals be drawn from the Health Emergency Action Act. This measure is neither necessary nor really necessary in the field of health, rather in the field of business, at the expense of the health of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Ms Möderndorfer has the floor on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Well, that's one of those provisions why you have to be careful when making decisions, and of course this amendment is one of the more important in this law, even though it looks insignificant. The fact is that this government is aware that if it wants to do so, it can in fact do so with the existing Health and Health Insurance Act, where it is very clearly and accurately described, when and how health services are paid, how programmes are granted, and more importantly when you can also take them away. However, for this provision, why did the declaration appear in this law, it is more than clear that it is seeking a legal basis for something that, in the end, the health department will not be able to do at all because it will not have a legal basis. Of course, if I had a general discussion or at least one normal procedure, I would not have had a representative or a new Director of Health at all on the Health Committee, who would have told us very clearly and out loud that, for the first time, the Government had not even spoken with it — with a health register — and even less coordinated around these provisions, and more importantly, even if it were accepted, it would not be possible to do so in the way that this government had imagined. Unless the Director of Health Care will sign an illegal procedure. And it will be fun to watch this government illegally descend into a field that is actually trying to legalise something that is illegal but will not work. The fact is that we have the law and all the sub-legislative acts that clearly and accurately lay down the rules of the game, how health services are paid both in public institutions and in concessionaires. And here you can see this greed, or the way we talk all the time about how this silent, slow transition to a different system is happening without changing the law. It's an extremely dangerous doing. All those who have read this article are at first glance truly incomprehensible and working so easily; yes, we will make a national call, and now we need a little more ground to do so. Excuse me, my dear Government and the coalition, you are embarking on an illegal field. We will support such a proposal for these very reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Of course, the Social Democrats will also support this proposal to delete this article, which is not really necessary. What's most interesting is that this is also what the Health Insurance Department said. We already have the opportunity to transmit the programmes according to the regelecs if they are not implemented in one constitution to another institution. So it's an unnecessary thing, and at the same time, it's a trick. There's something else I'd like to say. We can be critical to the institution, but what many are so reluctant to hear in this country is the following: that the money that the institution collects manages with some cost of 1 and a few percent, everything else goes back to health. However, if they manage the money of the supplementary health insurance companies, not only do they have 62 million left, which they tried to cover up on the reservations, and to make a profit of 16 million, the problem is elsewhere. They spend more than 8 percent of the money they collect that doesn't come back to health care. This institution, which he himself said, leaves the system as it is, and does not impose unnecessary things over Article 41, but works with a few more than one percent, in quotations, margins. It's their job. In fact, it is one cowardly egg that is simply unnecessary. If this is about wanting to change the system, we should come to some public debate and ask people if you want to change the system, but not push it and try to change the public health system in Slovenia by pushing it quietly in the background. This is simply unacceptable and we will therefore vote in favour of the Social Democrats for our article, for our proposal, which deletes an unnecessary article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] On his own behalf, Comrade Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment because it is a brilliant idea for public institutions which have been allocated programmes in accordance with the general agreement to do so, then these programmes are withdrawn if they have not been implemented. In fact, it is important, in the view of the Government and the coalition, that the public institution which has borne the greatest burden of the underlying crisis is punished by taking these programmes away from them and transferring them to the private sector, in which people who were employed in public health institutions will work in the morning. Look at the complete absurdity! The Commission of the State Council also presented the opinion of the Medical Chamber on this 41st article, to which it is also very critical. According to the Slovenian Medical Chamber, the 41st article of the bill considers the law to be problematic because the focus on the treatment of acute health conditions during the covida-19 epidemic is already known to have almost complete termination of the implementation of programmes at the level of specialist activity that certain specialist programmes at hospital level will not be implemented. It was impossible to realize that they were dealing with a co-vid, for which each of us sent a letter to doctors, thanked the healthcare staff, and now we are punishing them for taking away their programmes. The matter is absurd and I don't know why you don't trust Mrs Beovice here, the director of the Medical Chamber, who said that, as you trusted her at the time she led the special expert advisory committee. Where did this duality come from? That is why I will absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 50. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 19, 38 and 40 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted for second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	In fact, the Law on Intervention Measures was important due to certain certain provisions which allowed the Government to improve in some way, but this same law also applied to what this law does poorly, in fact even illegal in some way; this is that, on the basis of intervention, also after the notice of the Legal Service, it has actually begun to modify certain measures and not as temporary, interventional, but as permanent – this is, in the first place, unacceptable – and, of course, has also allowed only partial groups to be regulated. For this reason, we cannot support and support such a law. This, of course, also makes it clear to the Government that it should abstain and stop its illegal act, because such a law will later, as well as due to certain changes, lead to a situation that will lead to chaos, misunderstanding and new actions or judgments before the Constitutional Court and, of course, illegality.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Someone else in their own name. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. On his own behalf, Comrade Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. In addition to violating human rights and violating the Constitution, the law cannot be supported because the law lacks measures to make better use of the existing public health system. See, any company that wants to compete on the market and operate profit must ensure that bottlenecks are removed, that machines, equipment and personnel are used. Only then will it involve external contractors. This is the law of economics and competitiveness. Just two cases. Kranj has had a modern ultrasound for two years and in two years you failed to bring a doctor from Serbia to work on this device. Slovenj Gradec has an outdated gamma camera, but has a good team, cadre, look, and in both cases we create unnecessary waiting types, because we have to send patients to Ljubljana, Jesenice and in Slovenj Gradec to Maribor, Celje and Ljubljana. I don't see these solutions, and I don't see it going here. As we give priority to private health care, to private people from the existing rationalisation of public health, we are particularly making the situation worse because private people have their equipment and the health teams are losing motivation because of this law and these disproportionate measures and the problem will be deepened here. We didn't get into trouble the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 6. Seven. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 2(1). If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 2 to 4. Explanation of the vote by Tina Heferle on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In the LMŠ Group, we are putting this amendment primarily because this article 2 in the paper seems to us to be set up substantially too wide and does not follow what was imposed on us by the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Decision. Indeed, according to this article, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after its own assessment, which will not be bound to any epidemiological expertise – at least not bound to take account of their opinion – may, by means of a list of communicable diseases which may cause certain measures to be taken under the Illnesses Act, spread so that a disease is simply a disease – the law says when the danger of some other communicable diseases is such that the Government will assess that it is too dangerous – this disease is simply listed in this list of taxable diseases. And in this case, she will be able to take restrictive measures as we have seen them this year. For us, this seems to be an essential too wide a dictatorship and the government, by means of this law or this article, gives itself with the support of a government coalition in this Parliament, a broad mandate. In our view, it would be fairer or more in the spirit of a constitutional decision to include the text of a law that would say that if the Government considered that another disease, an infectious disease, would also add to that list, allowing such restrictive measures to be taken, the Government should, of course, leave the decision to the National Assembly on a proposal from the NIJ. Indeed, we are representatives of the people, directly elected and only in this house can decide whether human rights, such as freedom of movement, freedom of association, will be limited in what way and for how long they will be limited. Therefore, our amendment in this spirit is to somehow resist this uncontrollable power of the Government to decide on such measures on its own, and in our view it is the only one, so of course we will vote in favour of this amendment in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you. I must say, the article, as it was written, is insurmountable. In fact, this is an article that tells us what is the reason why special measures can be taken in the country, exceptional measures which affect the Constitution. It's written in some way in an indeterminate form. In view of what is mentioned, leave open and then leave open to the expert group that the Government proposes and that the Government automatically extend this Article to its initiative. For example, if I say very simplistic, then the expert commission with Mr Krek at the head of the group can assess that the flu is also so dangerous that it is classified as necessary to close the country because of this flu. Of course, I speak in a banal way, although in practice there is also a lot of banal realization. We think that, of course, it is right that the executive branch of power has the possibility that if a new situation arises, it will react quickly. Of course, the National Assembly cannot react in a matter of hours. It's some kind of trial. We give the right to an executive branch to react quickly. But it has to be this time-limited. Our suggestion is that a quick response may be limited to a maximum of one month. From here on out, there must be consensus everywhere, not just an introduction, but a consensus of the National Assembly. So, we know that it is sometimes necessary to react quickly, so let us also allow the possibility of rapid reaction. However, since it is the criteria for when specific measures can be applied, we cannot allow an open article because in our opinion such an article directly threatens the indefinite time of constitutional freedom. That is why, of course, I am talking about us supporting the amendment that we have proposed ourselves, as well as supporting other amendments of the opposition that are going in the same direction. However, it is very much dependent on how these amendments will be voted on, what will happen to the law at all. This is a law that, if voted incorrectly today, in our opinion threatens the foundations of democratic values in this country, so we will vote against it. We will vote in favour of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the amendment of the LMŠ Group as number one. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 2(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 3 and 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 47. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 2(3). Yeah, I'll read another note. So if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article becomes irrelevant under number 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 2 under Article 4. Collegiate Janja Servant on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Yes, thank you very much. We have now voted on a whole range of amendments by opposition parliamentary groups, which each in their own way tried to limit this broad field of arbitration, which the Government has nevertheless allowed. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that this arbitrariness and this will of the Government under the Infectious Diseases Act to this 39th Article is absolutely too wide. Of course, it must be openly acknowledged that these 11 paragraphs of the new Article, compared to what was before, of course, mean some step forward and the question is whether this is a sufficient step forward. We can't judge this in this house, that's what the neighbouring house is about, which should actually tell us at this point whether it's enough or not. Since, of course, no will has been shown so far to listen to the opposition in any way, if not for another reason because of all the experience we have in the near past, how the measures have been taken, what effects have we had, what a mess we have been in, how did we last listen to the members of the Advisory Group for Covid-19 at a meeting of one investigative commission, who made it very clear that the profession was not taken into account when taking measures, that a whole range of measures proposed by the section have not been taken into account by the Government and vice versa. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to this article in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, following the solutions they know in other countries, which says that it is also necessary to take a look at the relevant working body of the National Assembly at the same time as adopting measures. Why? In order for both the professional and the general public to have the opportunity to hear the arguments of the profession, the arguments of the Government, what measures, why, how they will have the effect, why they are needed, why people should stick to them, where the government followed the suggestions of the profession, where the government has overrun professionally. This has the right of the public, and we have the right of Members in this house, and not to read about it in the newspapers the next day, only after the Government has taken these measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3(1). If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 2 to 4. Ms Tina Heferle's colleague on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We are already at the fifth amendment of the opposition, which has been fought until yesterday evening for some, but above all this article is important when we talk about this novel because it is most harmful. Why? In this article, the Government is somehow usurping everything that is possible when we talk about when restrictive measures are taken at the time of the epidemic. Indeed, in this article, the Government will be able to decide, after its free assessment, which measures that will limit human rights will be in force at what time, how much time; and even more. In this article, exactly what Minister Hojs announced at the decision of the Constitutional Court happened; what they did for a year with decrees, with unconstitutional decrees, they simply drowned in the text of the law, thus somehow ensuring the legal basis, but did not guarantee their legitimacy. In particular, all these restrictive measures, including the prohibition of movement within a certain distance from the residence, such as the prohibition of movement within certain hours of the day, all these measures are in free judgment. The Government will decide on them arbitrarily and arbitrarily; and even more, this article is written in such a way that it uses very broad concepts as, “The Government may decide in particular such measures” and are then listed. However, the Government may also decide to impose any other measures that this law does not explicitly mention. So, in view of past experience in the last year and in view of the forecasts made this week by Mr Prime Minister, that the country will be completely closed again in the autumn in the event of sufficient splintering, this article can stir up fear in our bones. The question of what lies ahead under this government, what decisions, what limitations, and, therefore, in the LMŠ Group, we have proposed an amendment, which essentially narrows down the government's power to decide on human rights restrictions, and only so, since the Constitutional Court's decision also dictates this. The judges have made it clear that the Government must not be the one who decides on human rights restrictions, so we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	I will talk about Article 3 about specific and other amendments. This article is the one, which, of course, we are opposed to by the Social Democrats, which allows the Government, on the basis of vague criteria, to set an emergency situation, we can also call it an emergency regime, an emergency, emergency measures, for an indefinite period of time. In the marriage itself, of course, they refer to the profession, and just when we talk about the profession, we see what is happening. People who have a spine, who are left with cinnamons, are withdrawn from the groups, and they are not always taken into account. So the article and the law, as it is now written, allow for a direct transition to an authoritarian dictatorial state, because no government, but indeed no government should have the opportunity to in some way implement and maintain extraordinary measures for an indefinite time in its country. Of course, with the proposals we are making, we want to severely restrict the Government. We are aware that at some point when it is necessary to react quickly, the government must have, as an executive power, the power to react in real time, the power to react but for a very limited period. But this is the right time for 7 days, 14, 30 or 60, of course, it's a matter of debate, but it has to be limited. The Government may not have the power for an indefinite period of time to declare, on the basis of unclear criteria, an emergency situation due to emergency measures, due to diseases which are not even listed in the list of diseases which make it possible to implement measures at all. We, with our amendment, limit this right and hope that the amendment will be adopted. Of course we will vote in favour. If this is voted, there will still be a considerable number of concerns about the previous article, which has not been voted on. Even at this point, it will probably be the situation that the law itself is constitutionally controversial, which, of course, has to be judged by the Constitutional Court. But if we do not delete this now – and that is why we will vote in favour of the amendment – it means that it is essentially given to a concrete government and to all future governments. However, it is important to be aware that in a few months Parliament will address itself. The people we are now the opposition will then be a coalition and vice versa. [[advertising from the hall]] And, of course, I wonder if you want the new coalition to have the opportunity to sign off on an extraordinary situation for an indefinite period of time. Although that coalition will be such that I wouldn't do it anyway. So we are not deciding on a concrete government, a concrete opposition, a concrete coalition. In any country, the government must not have, but whoever is in power or in opposition, the right to declare extraordinary measures and therefore an emergency for an indefinite period of time on the basis of unclear criteria. We will therefore vote in favour of members of the opposition, the proposal of the opposition's amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. No, no, no. My friend Nick Pretbil, would you like a word with me? On behalf of the MP? [[adverts from benches]] Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much, President. I have to take this amendment. Article 3, which is proposed, is highly controversial. It offers too many opportunities for the government. I would like to ask my colleagues here if they know what the general constitutional principle of proportionality is. The principle that fundamental and human rights are above all things is that these rights are inseparable. And by this principle, which prohibits excessive State intervention even if it follows a legitimate objective, i.e. health protection, it is necessary to have certain guardians. These guards are always and only the Constitutional Court with a proportionality test. So through a rigorous test, it assesses whether the wishes of the Government or of the National Assembly are appropriate to the extent that they can reach human rights. The article now written will never pass this test. I'll tell you this now, and this test will go to the Constitutional Court again. That's why we're putting an amendment into the LMŠ to draw this issue. So these dangerous, controversial and proven ineffective government measures, which have proved to be more than 4,000 deaths in this second wave. And the key proposal of the LMŠ, therefore, that, if such things are to be confused, of course, it is only in the National Assembly, with the majority of all Members. This is actually the only possible democratic process that could limit human rights. As an amendment by the LMŠ Group, therefore, our amendment, which we have tabled, supports and I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 47. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 3 under number two. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 3 and 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 47. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 3(3). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 47. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 3 under Article 4. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 6. Ms Tina Heferle's colleague on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. In this case, we propose deletion of this Article in the LMSL Group. We are of the opinion that the regime of the abolition, which is the subject of this article, does not fall under a law such as the Law on Infectious Diseases, and in particular does not fall within the transitional and final provisions to which you have classified it. We are also disturbed by the fact that you are regulating only abolition of the abolition of the sentence, for all those offences, for all those offenders who have been punished on the basis of these unconstitutional decisions of the Government. This is for procedures that have not yet been completed, but you have forgotten about people who have been punished on the basis of unconstitutional government decisions and have already settled their sentences. In this case, a broader amnesty should be regulated, i.e. the release of the sentence for the return and the refund of the fines, as proposed in a very special law by the LMŠ Group together with the opposition partners. In our view, this is the only right and proper way to regulate abolitics and amnesty. It saddens us to point out again with this article that you view citizens as first- and second-class citizens or you do not treat them the same way before the law. All are in the same position only with the difference that some, for such or other reasons, did not invest certain legal remedies on the fines imposed; either they did not have the financial means to file a remedy, or they paid the fine immediately as exemplary citizens, but should not put them in an unequal position with those citizens who, until today, had not paid the fines, but were punished on the same legal basis, and this legal basis is an unconstitutional government decision. It would therefore be most elegant, most just to delete this article in the final and preliminary provisions. In the legislative procedure, it is already the law that regulates this, so that I do not understand your intentions; if you are sincere in your intentions, you will support our law, which regulates the matter in its entirety. In this case, it is most appropriate to delete this article, which is why we have also proposed this with an amendment in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 46. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. No, no, no. Voice explanation, mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We will vote decisively against the law, which we consider to be harmful and dangerous. It is dangerous because, on the basis of unclear criteria, it allows any government to introduce extraordinary measures in Slovenia and thus an exceptional situation for an indefinite period of time. This is, in our view, a severe slip in the democratic order of any country, a way in which, according to our conduct, all other European countries do not almost imagine that they are going this way and are actually threatening us. It all reminds us of the frog's cooking: we raise a little more temperature and then we wake up in our case and we find that we are no longer in democratic order, and the frog doesn't wake up because it's already cooked. Why is this law harmful? In our opinion, he is harmful because of, of course, what will he do? People look at us, read us, listen to us. They will see that the majority of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, which they do not like at all, have brought into the procedure and voted on a law that can actually threaten their basic constitutionally protected human rights. And at a time when we want people to listen, to listen, to do everything we can, to be safer in the fall, when we're going to have to fight the fourth wave of the epidemic. If you think we can fight threats, with some kind of dishonesty to people to talk to them, you're responsible, and at the same time you're smokin' them so we can't do it any more, the way is wrong. Finally, if we think about all the developments around the referendum, all the slips that can no longer be random, this is just a foreplay for a serious game, and these are the elections in 2022, when we adopt legislation that gives the government the opportunity to declare an extraordinary situation indefinitely, it is a dark future before us if we do not fight. We'll fight. We'll have our first serious interviews in the Constitutional Court. I am quite sure that the reply of the Constitutional Court will be different from that of the drafters of this law. Of course, at that time, the proponents will be hidden, no one will even make an apology. But what remains will be the excitement among the people who will actually cause a worse situation during the fall of the epidemic than they would otherwise have. This is all the reason that today, as responsible citizens and citizens, as responsible politicians and politicians, we should vote against this harmful and dangerous government law. We will strongly vote against the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Zeljko Cigler has the word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you. In Levica we will vote against the amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases. In doing so, we feel that it is less important that the Constitutional Court, in the work of the Government, has identified certain formal, that is, remedial, remedial irregularities. More importantly, throughout the duration of the officially declared epidemic, the Government has imposed measures that have been ineffective and discriminatory at the same time. The inefficiency of the government or its policies has been paid by people with lives. The government assigned curfews and closed borders and residents, more and more to their homes, and at the same time, they thought of themselves and their friends as a whole a bunch of exceptions that allowed privileged people to walk uninterruptedly across closed borders, organize business meetings, eat premium sandwiches and water them, open inns to privacy, hang out, paint without masks, and so on. And while the government was busy with repression and corruption, it was the same government: for the first time, in the midst of the worst epidemic, it left open factory halls with thousands of workers in a pile. Secondly, she allowed the system of monitoring and issuing the infection decisions to fall apart. Thirdly, it provided that it would not pay full compensation for infections in the workplace. Fourthly, I locked up sick people in nursing homes and caused thousands of unnecessary deaths in the DSOs. Instead of tackling the epidemic in key cities, the government has only raised restrictions and moralised about irresponsible citizens. Therefore, in the opinion of Levice, when we vote against this law, we believe that instead of hand-to-hand interventions in the Law on Infectious Diseases and the Destruction of Public Health, this government should therefore give up and leave the administration of the state to someone else who will enjoy public confidence when it comes to public health care and the resolution of coronary disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Janja Slug has the word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We will also oppose this law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Why? I've already said some things in my previous explanations to my voice. Certainly means the definition in Article 39, as proposed, one small step forward. We are convinced, however, that this step is insufficient, that there is still inadequate arrangements for taking measures for an indefinite time, without any limitation, without verification, without discussion in the National Assembly, without having the opportunity to confront opinions, to have the opportunity to verify what the profession has actually proposed and what it has not proposed. Moreover, what we have proposed to the non-aligned Members in their amendments has been precisely in the direction that there is no obstacle to the procedure, and that there is no obstacle to the procedure for taking measures in time. More than that, it doesn't even interfere with the powers of one branch of power with another. It is said that there would be no obstacle anywhere, nor did these minimum corrections run into a positive response and these amendments were not accepted. We've been listening to the Fourth Wave of the Epidemic. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has made it very clear to you that the law is unconstitutional and that it is necessary to regulate it, to give you a clear lesson in how penalties have been prescribed on the basis of non-constitutional decisions, it would be expected that they would show serious will also by regulating the Law on Infectious Diseases in such a way as to effectively withstand all the professional and legal criteria that it would continue to provide the right basis for taking the measures you are predicting, which you will obviously take against. Today we have heard that in the fall schools will be closed again and so forth. Since this government and this coalition cannot bear these minimum responsibilities, we will oppose this law by unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We also strongly predict in the LMŠ Group that we will vote against such a law. The law was drafted by the Government without any pre-planned criteria on the basis of which restrictive measures could be taken. The law is written without any conditions to be met in order for certain restrictive measures to be taken. The law is written without restricting this decision to the Government as regards the validity of restrictive measures. And the law is written without a trace of any implementation of the constitutional decision. If your intentions were good or were well-intentioned in writing the bill, you could easily listen to and confirm any amendments to the opposition because all amendments went in the direction of maintaining some legitimacy of decision when it comes to taking these restrictive measures that restrict people in the movement, in the assembly and in other human rights. Our amendments did not go in the direction that there should be no such action. No, no, no. We are aware that the epidemic requires action, but once again, everything is not allowed in the account and on behalf of the epidemic. Each time, it should be particularly weighed when and in what cases measures restricting human rights are taken. Each time, we should make a specific assessment of whether it is absolutely necessary, say, to prohibit movement after a certain hour in the evening or to achieve the same objective with another measure. In short, we wanted to remind you that you do not respect this, which led the Constitutional Court to issue a decision and to decide that the Law on Infectious Diseases is unconstitutional in this part. Already in the LMŠ Group, we predict that if this law sees the light of the world, and if even a decision on the prohibition of the referendum is passed on to this law, we will predict that we will use all the democratic tools available to us to prevent the implementation of this law, which is harmful and which unduly interferes with human rights and works our society all the more so as democratically. Today we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mark Bandelli has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Yes, thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us look ourselves in the eye and let us tell the truth that this law is a great sadness. One great grief! If I'm going in line, I'm going to repeat things a little bit, but it's only right that you hear more than once, because it probably doesn't come to life. First of all, it is harmful to Slovenia and to all citizens. That's the basics. That's the basics. He does not answer all constitutional dilemmas; and you know that. You, too, in the coalition, know that it does not answer all constitutional dilemmas. It's an act that really interferes deeply with human rights. And don't shut your eyes, because you know exactly that. But what's bad enough to limit our movement without the epidemic being declared is important. You, by not even declaring an epidemic, can limit everything: moving to the congregations, 200 meters from the house, as we have heard from Beovic. That's when it got to me, it disgusted me. In short, I think it's one huge victory for all the harmful Hoys and other decisions, and let's be honest and say it as it should be said. In addition, the law is also part of a decision, if I understand correctly, of the expert groups – SDS expert groups, let’s be honest – SDS expert groups, because this is not an expert group of experts, are experts from the SDS – which is often not in line with the opinion of the NIJZ. We have heard this, we have been told clearly at the hearing in the investigation, which was publicly open to all, so that there is nothing where one and the other have clearly said that one and the other are not following one or the other instructions. Then comes the third one we know who he is, who makes his own decisions. And now here, fellows, you intend to confirm practically this law, which is truly harmful; harmful to all of Slovenia, harmful to all citizens. That's really sad. Just so you know. And if that happens, surely we too will join in the matter of constitutional judgment or any other tool that can prevent this matter. So much for our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, this SARS-COV-2 virus is extremely harmful for this country and for these citizens. Here. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will support this amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases. What's this all about? After 26 years, the Constitutional Court found that the law adopted in 1995 at the time of Drnovskov's Government did not comply with the Constitution. The law that we will adopt, according to our assessment, limits the Government in its actions, and in particular requires the Government to give professional reasons for all its actions. So he's listening to the expert. Now, who is this profession, or should we write names and surnames in the law, I'm not so sure. However, on behalf of the Constitutional Court, I apologize to the citizens and citizens who wrote to us for something over 300, 400 maybe who want a broad debate on this law. It is simply not possible because we have been limited by the Constitutional Court in time. Let me say, for those who have not read the decision – and such is the vast majority of citizens and citizens – the decision was published on 3 June this year and the Constitutional Court gave us 60 days from the date of publication. Thus, unconstitutionality must be remedied by 3 August. Is that right? Here. It is simply not possible to have a broad debate at this time. When the virus strikes, we need to act quickly. If we have a long parliamentary session, there will be no baptism in this country. Of course, this is actually a debate on the impact of more human rights. Maybe I'll surprise you and argue that because all governments have a limited deadline, I'm in favour of people gathering, I'm in favour of people protesting, I'm in favour of people protesting against government or against governments. It's human rights, the right to collect, the right to party, if you want, free time and so on. How will you protest if you're dead? That is why first of all the human rights, that is the right to health or the right to life, and that is what we advocate. And that's just one of the reasons why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Dear colleague, I did not wish to cut you down, but we are Members and Members, and none of us can perform on behalf of the Constitutional Court. Would you like to know if anyone else would like to do it on behalf of a member of the group? Anja Bah Žibert's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think we should get started, though. I've never heard of a marriage today. No, we're taking changes to the law. The Law on Infectious Diseases is 1995 and these things have been defined and written before. However, the fact is that some things became relevant only now that we faced an epidemic that no one knew would happen. And the fact is that the Constitutional Court really believed in its decision and ordered that this constitutional non-conformity be resolved within two months. It must also be made clear that the Constitutional Court has not ruled so easily. Many times, there were separate opinions on the subject, but, however, something else decided; the second and third points remained or were being implemented. It didn't hold up, but it did tell us to fix some things. You know, we all do a lot of human rights together, about the importance of one or the other. Let me also remind you of the international treaties, and that also binds us to the Constitution. And the so-called Constitution of the World Health Organization already says in the preamble that health is a fundamental right. Our Constitution also knows, respectable, the hierarchy of rights and the highest hierarchy, the highest human right in the hierarchy is the inviolability of human life and this is health. So please don't deceive people, don't talk about anyone restricting anything to them, because the Law on Infectious Diseases and Changes is designed to protect people. The Law on Infectious Diseases speaks of protecting citizens and citizens and each individual from an infectious disease and perhaps also protecting their lives. Let's stop talking about the law and how the law is meant to limit something. But if anyone in this room is able to tell us about any infectious disease today, we are talking about the most covid today, but the infectious disease we do not know today, we will be able to get to know her in a year or two, so that she can tell all the measures that will be important against her, but the first to raise her hand. Let him raise his hand, who knows what he can do to carry along an infectious disease and what measures he can take against it. Who knows? Nobody! Matjaž German, great, great [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	We're here to explain our voice, our respectable colleague and colleague. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. Since I can see there's quite a bit of interest and you're raising your hands, I'm going to call in the applications. Logins are under way, please log in. The first one has the word Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, in Levica, we will not pretend that restrictive measures are not necessary to deal with the epidemic, but that they must be adopted in accordance with democratic procedures and by listening to what the interlocutors say, if you understand. Not without public debate and without the possibility of calling for a referendum, as the current government does. The measures must also apply to all the same things; they must be clearly limited in time; there must be a broader political and social consensus on them, not what is now being done with the amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, so that the public or the opposition can take the word of civil society. It should also be taken into account that some social groups are more at risk, but in particular they must have some visible and measurable impact on public health on the measures being taken. The government of Janez Janša already blames us for the fall fourth wave of the epidemic, to which we should not be prepared for our own fault – that is what they say. At the same time, while we are arguing about these crowns of action, the Government is privatising public health care as a step away from public attention and debate. The same public health care, thanks to which we had such a relatively good transition in the first waves of the epidemic, although the damage was very high, was then also human. See, this government, with its anti-caud policy, creates and requires a high tax on human life and human rights beatings, especially at the expense of the rule of law. The adoption of amendments to this Law on Infectious Diseases means that we are opening the door to totalitarianism and autocracy in Slovenia for the future. I will therefore vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you. Well, we're talking about the government today, but the government is not an abstract concept. The government is made up of people. Who, then, will decide upon the adoption of this law on whether we will be imprisoned? Jansha, Hoys, Brick King, Tonin, Gardener! Not the profession, these people will decide the future of the whole country and build our freedom of opinion! And soon, at least according to your predictions. That's funny. I'm a long way from being funny. Obviously, of course, you are allowed everything, including the worst interference in human rights. And you will decide which right is more important. You're going to step into freedom. It certainly doesn't end here. The public gives you a clear no, the profession tells you no, but you do not see it, nor hear it, nor do you want to see it, nor do you want to hear it. I'm absolutely against it today because it can't be any different. It is absolutely a fact that you are trampling on human rights, trampling on constitutional rights. As a politician, allow yourself too much. And anyone who is in favour today will personally surrender all the power that this Parliament, this institution, has into the hands of a handful of people just because you want to please him. No! No! It's unacceptable, and with my consensus, you're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! Today is an extremely important day for Slovenian democracy. This isn't just about dealing with the epidemic, it's about being here to defend the fundamental postulates that we've been building for the last 30 years. Autocracy is a form of government where all authority belongs to only one person, usually linked to violence and unlimited will. In such an arrangement, people cannot influence the functioning of a state organisation, cannot control it and exercise its responsibilities. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the debate touched on the question of how we will know in a year what will be the situation. Albert Einstein said to do always the same things and expect a different result, is the biggest mistake we can make. Of course, we learned something this year and a half. We are talking about a large number of overcrowded, overcrowded citizens and citizens, and this gives us hope that at the next forecast wave we will behave differently and address the challenges ahead. Surely we will also respect constitutional regulation in a way that preserves our society democratically. What saddens me very much is – and I will say in public – that New Slovenia is involved in all of this, that the SMC has failed and Desus has fallen. And what hurts me most is that in the leap from democracy to self-cracy, representatives of minority groups or minorities, minority national communities help. This must be said, for this day will go on in history and all reactions to this day will have a decisive effect on our relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I didn't even mean to come by, because it was already said, but apparently people didn't even read things on the coalition side. When he says to the head of the home work body for health and health that something will be limited. Of course it'll be limited. The law on infectious diseases in the case of communicable diseases must be more clearly defined under the constitutional arch than before. Here we are not an exception, these articles had a rather vague history before this co-vid of another country, when and how it will be limited and who will decide on these limitations. Second story: no one knows. That's not true. A few people know what the future holds for us. Even in the light of climate change, whether anything will melt, what viruses will come from anywhere. But this again detects this government and this coalition: Let's get stupid into constitutional decay. That's basically the law you want to pass on here. I will not be harshly absolute or I do not know how against, I will be constitutionally defensive against, because I defend the constitutionality of the Republic of Slovenia. You know, we're not Greece during the junta generals, we're not a "chillian junta", and we're not Portugal before returning to democracy, we're in 2021. But if some corporal has an unexpected desire, it's his personal problem. And I hope that the Constitutional Court will overcome so much courage that this case, such as if you vote it, will fall. Thank you. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. But this time, with a light heart, I will have a hard time voting against the changes of this law. Why? These changes are essentially nothing new, but at the very least they align the content of the existing government decisions with the constitution. At least. They're just transferring this unconstitutional content to the legal level. Simply put, the government would, of course, continue to restrict people as it pleases. I ask, who will restrict this government, who will restrict this government? Will it be the National Assembly? He won't. The government coalition with supporters blindly follows this government completely uncritically and burns down everything the government brings to the National Assembly. Will the profession limit it? Of course she won't! Of course she won't, like she hasn't been an epidemic all along. Nor do these changes in the law of the relationship between health care and politics save, define. What exactly is the relationship between a professional and a government based on this law? We don't know that, but from what's written, we can say nothing. The profession will continue as it has throughout the epidemic of fig leaves and a convenient excuse for this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. First of all, let me say that I will vote against this unconstitutional and harmful law, the amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, because infectious diseases are not as essential inside as the change of Slovenia into a non-democratic one. Our basic democratic values are truly at risk. Of course, before that, a colleague of the Germans named who supported these harmful changes. Which are the customers, which are the minorities and so on. I will not repeat this, but nothing will be the same as today's vote. It is unacceptable, so in the opposition, we will use all democratic options to prevent this authoritarian harmful government from taking over full authority and to send people as healthy as those who do not like them into some kind of quarantine is unacceptable. And it's scary how you shuddered when we said there would be elections and probably change power. No, you believe you'll rule forever, that's how you act, that's how you frame and take laws like that. I will also say this, in my own opinion and without legal restrictions and criteria, the Government would declare restrictions and restrictions on movement, of course for groups they do not like, probably also for political opponents, which is not only unconstitutional, but under international law is unacceptable. And when you say that the first human right is health. Yeah, you used the epidemic to make your people rich and steal our country. We're not gonna let that happen. Human rights are indivisible. They're not ranked, they're not in any hierarchy. Human rights are human rights. Of course I'm against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Look, what you have done unlawfully and unconstitutionally in the time of your government decisions, you are now transferring to the legal level. It's kind of almost crazy. Clearly, what is being adopted today, without any professional or public discussion, is harmful. It is harmful for the state system, it is harmful for citizens and citizens and excessive interference with human rights. You know, there is no problem that there is a possibility of certain exacerbations, if necessary. The problem is who has the opportunity to sharpen. Of course, the government, as executive power, cannot possibly have this option and can never have it. This option can always be only and only for those who represent two million people in Slovenia, and we are Members and Members, that is, the National Assembly. Of course, the government gives itself or through government Members and some supporters too much power — as the Constitutional Court has said before — to decide on measures and, of course, its duration without any necessary safeguards in order to overcome excessive interference with human rights and freedoms. Of course, you have not accepted any amendment that we have proposed in the opposition, it is kind of a constant for you, it is all going one way or another, but it is a matter that is problematic, and this problem will be identified by the Constitutional Court in the future. In fact, the government can't possibly have the authority you want to choose right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	The word has magic. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. One of the red and this constitutional decisions was that the Infectious Diseases Act did not provide for adequate legal certainty, was not predictable enough, as was the fact that the legislator left excessive powers to the executive branch. In fact, in the past year, the Government ruled on the basis of decrees, on the basis of sub-laws, and on this basis imposed exceptional restrictions on rights and freedoms. For this reason, the Constitutional Court decided that the law should be amended. And what did you do? In fact, you copied everything you did in the past year, on the basis of marriage, re-issued outstanding powers to the Government, re-deroged all powers of the National Assembly. In fact, you only legalized your conduct last year, but you didn't legitimize it. This law is not legitimate; this law allows for exceptional excessive interference with human rights and freedoms, without satisfying the fundamental principle of the rule of law, the fundamental principle of proportionality. It is a serious violation of human rights and freedoms and, as such, is absolutely inappropriate. Not to say that a suitable public debate was not ensured, that the law was adopted after a reduced procedure, in short, you ignored all procedural guards again. That is why I will vote absolutely against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you, President, for your word. I will, of course, vote against this non-democratic law, which has been passed without public consideration, without consulting the profession and without civil society. Now there's a rumor that the government and the coalition didn't have enough time for public hearing. This is a little funny, for if anyone were able to do a public hearing at that time, it is this government, given that sometimes it gives even two, three days for a topic. So, of course, these are lies that serve to argue why they will support this. I do not understand the people who would vote in favour of taking human rights that have been acquired through history in such or other ways. Today, even in argumentation, Dr. Janez Drnovšk is being heard here. Let me remind you that the declaration, the General Declaration on Human Rights was adopted a little earlier, there in 1948, if I am not mistaken, translated — I think — in over 300 languages and I think that each of us sitting here speaks one of these 300 world languages to understand what the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is and what it actually gives you. In fact, I do not understand the person, Member of Parliament or anyone who votes against the rights that have been acquired in such or other ways through history. It is even sadder that you do not give these rights to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because you have already given a decision prohibiting the referendum on this subject. I will, of course, vote against this undemocratic and harmful law absolutely myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 42. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism cope with the consequences of the epidemic under the urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 6 July 2016. Seven. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and Levica's parliamentary groups to Article 9 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under number 2 and the amendment under number 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 9(2). Explanation of the vote by counterpart Bana Rajić on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We estimate that the coalition amendment on Sunday's opening of trade in museums and tourist-information centres has overlooked trade in camps and hotels, so we have proposed a solution, and this is also an extension to these two categories. The fact is that in hotels, and even more in camps, people have no stock and reserves, and if there is already a trade physically there, there is no rational one, of course, except for the dogmatic reason that they stand before a closed store, and they are placed in tents and dwellings, and they wonder where it came from, in what kind of tourist surplus. At the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the Secretary of State also made a statement in favour of this proposal and the vote was voted on by the party machinery. Now is the time for reflection and rationalisation, because if a minister bought shares in a hotel chain or camp, Sunday’s sales in hotel stores would probably blossom immediately, as on Sundays it flourished on gas stations. Then our amendment would have more support. We, the unrelated Members, will, of course, support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 56. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 9(3). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 11. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 27(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under the headings 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 27(1) has been adopted, the amendments of SD and Levica sent to this Article under Article 2 and the amendment of the non-connected groups and SD to this Article have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 39. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and Levica's parliamentary groups to Article 43 under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 46. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, the LMŠ and the SD to Article 43(2). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 9, 11 and 27 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Primož Siter Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues welcome! So we have the ninth anti-korona package ahead of us. The common denominator of all or common denominators of all nine anti-Korona packages, which we have been looking at over the last year and a half, are very evident. One is their inefficiency. Just the fact that we have before us the ninth package and that before that there were eight packages that should have saved the country's economic, social and health picture is loud enough and information displayed. The measures are coming too late and the measures are not being translated into people's welfare. That the measures come too late, in this particular case, the best organisers or organisers of public events who spoke to the competent minister or minister of culture and economy for a year and a half and begged to listen to them. Finally, they were adopted, listened to, formulated a strategy, a compromise strategy that was about right for the organizers, and the government changed this strategy before the introduction of the law into the National Assembly overnight. And the event sector is now again in poverty, without the possibility of planning and planning a way out of this crisis, which has hit the sector the most. The measures are not for people, the best known point is workers, at least those among the thousand 900 who remained on the road during the epidemic on the basis of mass dismissal from companies receiving State aid, without ensuring that they will not forgive workers at the time of receiving such aid. Then this anti-korona package wouldn't be an anti-korona package if there wasn't another ferret with nothing to do with it. For example, the Water Act thing that moves funding from the state budget to the Water Fund because in the state budget it can run out of money and the Water Fund is a bottomless bag. In the same breath, when the government devotes 780 million to armament from the state budget, which easily misses 900 million from tax reform or gifts to the richest and even more. The list is very long. In the Levica Group, we are opposed to such solutions, which are not, and we will also oppose this law by voting, especially because we have proposed solutions in the debate process that would protect workers on the road, which would eliminate one handful of poverty, and Members and Members of the government coalition were not in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Chernigoy, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I will be the name of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. In New Slovenia, we will be happy to support an intervention measure to help the economy and tourism to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. Yesterday I was also present in the entire debate and someone mentioned that I sang even Odo's joy to all the measures taken by the Government. And you know what? This government, this ode of joy, has been heard from the European Commission and today the European Commission has issued a new forecast of economic growth and has placed Slovenia on an average of 5.7 economic growth. It therefore shows that the current government is taking the right measures, which also show up in economic growth. That is why we will gladly support this area, I think, the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Procedural colleague Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	Yes, my procedural proposal is once again to sing that we will be at 10 percent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Okay. Thank you very much. It's got to be a little fun. My friend Gregor the Jew in the name of the messenger? No, on my own. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In his own name, Gregor the Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps only a representative of the government would have warned you that you simply forget about sports and since you've forgotten about sports, I can't support it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 6th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Cold in Agricultural Production between 5 and 9 April 2021 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda – second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Income in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 3. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda – second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the submission of the review of the amendment tabled. Seven. 2021. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 2. Mr Siter, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	Yes, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, the Government used this epidemic mainly to strengthen its network in public institutions, i.e. to recruit its people in key management places, regardless of their professional competences. Owl, army, police, RTV, NPU, Statistical Office, NIJ, Chief of Vaccination, Post Office and so on. These changes were in the last year and a half, a record number, 700 and something. And now the government is proposing by this law a legal regime for the subordination of the audit institute, which is one of the two leading institutions in the country that is responsible for business and financial hygiene. So people don't steal. Of course, they want to have their man at the top of this institution according to the pattern we have seen in the last year and a half. How she intended to do so – lower the standards for the appointment of a director at this institute. From that previous standard, which conferred the status of auditor's officer to only the economist or lawyer of the second Bologna level. The representative of the Government, who held the debate on this subject on the Committee, could not answer why she was doing this, had no arguments. Here it is — we can conclude, we can read this law in such a way that it is only one name and last name. According to local word, the new director of the institute without competence, but fast-tracked with a membership card or close association with a leading government party. The Left Group has already proposed on the Committee, with an amendment, the deletion of this controversial article on appointment, or, again, the domestically speaking, the imposition of an incompetent person on the top of an institution requiring high professionalism. This amendment was adopted by a strange committee, and now the government coalition is coming with an amendment that says that this adoption of the amendment should be crossed out, so let us destroy this decision of the committee. My question under the subtitle to claim that we will vote against this deletion of our amendment, is simply why the Government simply does not enter the names and surnames of the people it wants to frame into its new laws or amendments. It would be much simpler. We will vote against this government or coalition amendment, we will vote against the law in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-07-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 38. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and since the representative of the proposed law in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, under the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 23. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would not have brought the proposal of the law into line in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 19. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 48th item of the agenda – consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the Court of Auditors’ Audit Report Implementation of the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. As the amendments to the proposal for a recommendation have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 6 July 2021, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the President's question on the uncontrolled budgetary situation. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question on the question of employment closure in problem areas is the question of Aljaž Kovačič. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to Tina Heferle's question on the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister without a pillar responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of the Member State of Violet Tomić concerning the disputed tendering conditions of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area, as set out by the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without the resources responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Regulation on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area in the Republic of Slovenia from 2014 to 2021. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simone Kustec and Minister of Finance mag. Andrej Širclja's question on the question of the situation of sport and sports organisations in the light of the epidemic. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 41 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King and Minister of Finance of Mags. Mr Andrej Širclja's question on the question of Mr Kordiš's mission regarding the planned financing of long-term care. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question sent by Janje Slug regarding the public call for co-financing of investments in kindergartens and primary education in the Republic of Slovenia during the budget period 2021-2024. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question by Mr Nataša Sukič on the case of selected concessionaires who carry out the vaccination, although they are not mentioned in the official documents on vaccination. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to Bosniak Koražija's question on the evaluation of the work of staff in health and social care. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question by Mr Nataša Sukić on political pressure on the autonomous work of the police. Okay, that's how I wrote it. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Shirclj to the question of the Mag. Andrej Reich's long-term obligations under the state budget. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak to the question of the question of the question of the Delavska Street in Celje. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the construction of the emergency centre on Ptuj. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the delegation of Violet Tomić concerning the granting of public interest status in culture to the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Members and members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be informed that in 10 minutes, at 1835, the 57th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič.
