ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Marijan Pojbič and Samo Bevk. By the time limit set by the College of Cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, no Member or Member has announced the application for a sitting at a distance. I say hello to everyone who's here! But to respectable women, I sincerely congratulate you on today’s holiday — the International Women’s Day! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I inform you that we will decide on the following order: items 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law is suitable for further consideration. The explanation on behalf of the delegation shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Thank you very much. We will abstain in the first reading of the Housing Law in the Levica Group. We evaluate the novel in this way: there are absolutely good solutions that we support, but also some that are unacceptable and bad. In the second reading, we will tie our support to the adoption of the amendments we will prepare. If I can explain briefly which are good and bad, I'll put it this way. On the good side, there is definitely an increase in the possibility of borrowing housing funds. This is a solution that we have also proposed in 2017. When the funds have an opportunity to increase their debt, at least some of the construction of public rental apartments will increase, as we now know that they have not been built for almost a decade and that they are chronically lacking in Slovenia. About 10 000 public rental apartments, of which 4 000 200 in Ljubljana, are expected to be insufficient, and the result is, of course, flying prices of real estate and rentals in the sky, especially in urban centres. In this connection, we also support the arrangements for non-profit rent. So far, funds with existing non-profit rents have not been able to depreciate their costs, let alone build new ones. This is also one of the things that we have proposed in our own law, which we have been preparing with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which was led by Simon Zajc. On the unacceptable side, however, there is definitely a deterioration in the power ratio between lenders and tenants. In Europe, after studies, there are about 15 countries, which are usually those with the best regulated housing policy, where tenants have significantly greater power and greater legal certainty than lenders. On the other hand, there are 6 countries on the other hand, where this is the other way around, and between these six countries there is Slovenia. Slovenia is on the side of the European countries where the power ratio under our legislation is substantially geared up in favour of landlords. We all know that long-term leases do not virtually exist that for most tenants the terms of the lease, including the price, can be changed every year; and we do not understand why this law would further exacerbate this imbalance in the way that now shorter notices and emigration deadlines and so on. As it is said, we abstain in this reading, even though there are things in this law that are urgent. We hope that in the second reading we will be able to discuss the amendments that we will prepare, which address the shortcomings of this bill, so that we can then support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovacič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! We are aware that the right housing policy is only one of the wider community to regulate all social groups — young, old and socially endangered. The fact is, this marriage has some pretty good things in it, and it has some pretty bad things like shortening these days, as much as you have to move out. There are also several important things missing, such as housing cooperatives, which are actually being built in Slovenia. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we decided that in our first reading, we would give support to this law, give the opportunity to make appropriate amendments in the second reading, to remove bad things from it, and to give it the good things that are missing. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u6	In the SAB Group, we will support the law in the first reading. We believe that it contains one very important provision that non-profit rents will finally be brought into line with real costs. The non-coordination of non-profit rents since 2007 resulted in the poverty of the public housing fund and also the fact that housing funds were unable to maintain buildings on a regular basis, rather than building new ones. And all of this resulted in an unregulated wild rental fund of apartments and, as a result, an increase in rent and housing prices across every reasonable border. In the SAB Group, as I have already said, we will support this reading. The Government, however, is expected to provide that, with a view to regulating housing prices, which is the basic task of housing funds, each local community will have to provide some kind of housing fund and also set target rent prices for both apartments and leases and set time limits when it will reach these target rental prices. This is crucial for us if we want the housing market to start working and if we want the prices not to rise in the future across every border. We can discuss housing cooperatives and various forms of construction if we do not determine prices, how acceptable normal prices are. The German Central Bank estimates that rents and housing prices are overestimated by 30 to 40 % in Germany. I wonder what is the situation in Slovenia, and I am also leaning towards this assessment, so I expect the Housing Fund and the Ministry to provide guidance on how to achieve normal housing prices and rents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. The general view is that one of the best housing policies in the world, if not the best, is the Austrian capital of Vienna. In the professional circles we call this – excuse me, right – red Vienna. And this is a centuries-old tradition of fighting social democrats in this area, and in this direction too, our amendments will go in further readings. At the moment, we will abstain for similar reasons as colleagues from that part of the opposition swearing to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 63 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad. Since no amendments to the amended decision were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the Reformation of the University of Maribor. Since no amendments to the amended decision were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana. Since no amendments to the amended decision were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're crossing 21st. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Consent to the appointment of the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is based on Article 74, paragraph 2, of the Health and Health Insurance Act 4. 2. 2021 In agreement with the National Assembly, Ms Tatjana Mlakar, Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, forwarded the decision appointing Dr. Tatjana Mlakar. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first is Joseph Horvat, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear guests, dear colleagues and friends! The National Assembly will today, at the proposal of the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, decide on an agreement to appoint Dr. Tatjana Mlakar as Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group will be united in its support. We met with Dr. Tatjana Mlakar a long time ago and in an open discussion we found many common points in efforts to modernise the Slovenian health system. Christian Democrats do not agree that the health of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia is in the hands of one and only mandatory health insurance provider, which is called the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Such arrangements, when there is a single health institution that negotiates with operators for, A, the scope of services, B, the price of services and, C, the only financing of compulsory health insurance rights, are unique in the European criterion. In this way, the State prevents the choice of health insurance and preserves all inefficiencies of financing. Such an arrangement creates irresponsibility in the allocation of financial resources, as the correction of CFSP deficits is always financed by the state budget. In last year, the ZZZS had around EUR 3 000 255 million of annual revenues and is therefore one of the largest financial funds in the country, but it is relatively weak to control. In most cases, the ZZS controls itself and sets itself a regulatory framework. In New Slovenia we cannot accept the fact that such poorly controlled institutions have so much responsibility for the health of all of us. Typically, the ZZZS monopoly is reflected in the absence of cost control in the procurement of medicinal products and technical devices and equipment, the pharmacovigilance effects of medicinal products, therapies and equipment are ignored. This means that health care has become a rental for the pharmaceutical and velodrogeristic industries as well as wholesalers of health equipment. As we conclude that it is not the choice of an individual to leave his or her health to uncertain financing, which is primarily about pensions, we are committed to allow an individual to decide for himself or herself to decide who he or she will entrust with health insurance funds. Slovenia has only one health insurance company offering compulsory health insurance, that is ZZS. There is no competition in this segment. In other words, all citizens depend on the performance of one insurance undertaking itself or the effectiveness of the rehabilitation of the health status of citizens depends on whether the ZZZS monopoly is able to operate successfully. In addition, as the sole market provider, there is no incentive for efficient processes and operations, as the number of services delivered is measured according to the level of available resources. So we can only be sick as much as we can afford. Taking into account the fact that this is one of the largest financial funds in Slovenia, which in fact sets itself up a regulation that denies any need to introduce actuarial calculations and which supervises itself, exposes the country to an extremely high risk of collapse of the entire health system due to the monopolistic structure of the market. Comparable data show that none of the countries is legally bound by such a risk. Ladies and gentlemen, health is a great value of society. He is an individual and must be at the heart of the healthcare system, so we are working to raise the health level of our citizens. Basic health care and preventive measures must be accessible to all citizens at the time they need them; and they must not be just a right on paper. Health must not be a question of income. We won't leave anyone who needs help alone. For solidarity, society has to take care of the sick, the disabled and all those in need of care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Levica Group, which I accidentally skipped, and then as the last Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor. Micah Kordish has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is a payer of material and services in the Slovenian health system. It pays for wages and gives for material, and it has more than three billion euros in income from all insured and insured persons. So it's damn important who's going to run this Health Insurance Office. Will it be someone who advocates a solidarity public health system that is in the position that health is not a commodity, but the right of every citizen and every citizen? Or will it be someone who flirts with private interests? The covida-19 epidemic has made it very clear worldwide that countries can rely only on public health systems. Countries that have health care organised in some form of the market are also countries that have been a covida-19 epidemic since the beginning of the worst vehicle. Be it because private health has collapsed like a house of cards, or because it has not been proactively involved in the resolution of the epidemic, because private people act for profit and not for the needs of people, even though these needs may be lifesaving. For all the reasons mentioned above, we cannot support the current candidate for the management of the Health Insurance Institute. It is put on the side of private interests which have consumed the Slovenian health system for the past 30 years. Given the lack of public funding in public health care, we can be thrilled at the way the public health system works. For 30 years it has been consumed by privatisation interests; yet, it still saves us when we are sick. In front of the Council of the Health Insurance Office, a candidate for the management of this health register expressed some very problematic political views. As I have already mentioned, these are views that empathise with privacy and health as a business and not as the right of all citizens and citizens. For starters, he sees no problem with supplementary health insurance or commercial insurance. You know that in Levica we are strongly in the position that supplementary health insurance needs to be abolished, in a solidarity manner to adjust the rates of contribution and to transfer them all to the public health treasury, and thus to commercial insurance companies to withdraw 50 million euros that they are currently unjustifiably subsidizing, and to use these funds for the salaries of nurses and doctors, for material, in short, for better health care. Furthermore, the candidate does not see a problem in the deficit budget financing of public health treasury or the creation of a shortage of public funds from the wrong sides. For he says that the Slovenian basket of health rights is too expensive and that it needs to be ventilated. Basically, this means that it needs to be reduced. For the same money that all citizens and citizens pay for their health care right now, after cleaning the basket like this, they would get less and less care. The same is true of the new Minister of Health in this government, which may be of great concern to us. And to conclude with a third problematic point of view. Public funds should also be financed by private health operations, which are not basically human health insurance operations, but by their operators being able to earn. In Levica, we believe that public funds must be a priority, if not exclusively, for financing public health homes and public hospitals, but not to finance the health business with the money of all citizens and citizens. So these are the three views of the candidate, the three positions that are absolutely unacceptable, and the three reasons why we will vote against this in Levica. Not because of the name or surname of the candidate lady, but because of the political views it takes. And these are the political views for the privatisation of the public health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Jurša, who will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! A month ago, the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia decided to appoint Tatjana Mlakar, a doctor of business science who has been employed at the Institute since 1993 as Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for a period of four years. We give our consent to this appointment to Members and Members of the National Assembly. Whether the competences, work experience and expertise of the proposed candidate justify our votes for support were key issues that we have discussed and finally accepted within the Desus Group to support or agree to its appointment. Members of the parliamentary group believe and trust Dr Tatjana Mlakar's candidate to lead an ambitious, proactive, transparent and, of course, professional leadership as an expert with long experience in the latter's institution. All of these are the virtues that each management staff should have, and we believe that the candidate will also justify our trust. But the fact is, she's not easy to work with, and we believe she's aware of it. From an organisational point of view, the management of about 850 employees is an exceptional task. However, in terms of the third largest state treasury, the funding plan for 2021 provides for 3.45 billion euros, which is even more difficult. For comparison only – €1 billion more than in 2015. In addition to the regular tasks related to the integration of institutions, the control of costs and the quality of services, cooperation in health legislation and legislation in the area of long-term care, it will also have to deal with the reduction of standards due to the epidemic, additional longer waiting periods, when many insurers were unable to reach a number of health services or received them late. The epidemic leaves consequences in all areas of our lives, most in health care. We can't just look at it through numbers. This is about the health and life of individuals, our dearest, who have been affected by the virus either directly by infection or indirectly when access to health care has been hampered. In the Desus Group, we expect the candidate to justify her trust by carrying out her tasks in a responsible, transparent and, above all, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, so we will also support her in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As last of all, the President of the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, Mrs Lučka Böhm, on behalf of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and thank you for inviting me to the National Assembly. Indeed, on 4 February this year, the Assembly decided to appoint Mrs Tatjana Mlakar as Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia under the mandate of 2021-2025. She convinced by her confident performance and by her systematic approach. We believe that she is capable of performing the work of the Director-General of the Institute. But here all I have to say is that she has not advocated the elimination of the monopoly – in the notes, please understand this – of the Health Insurance Institute. Slovenia has just over 2 million inhabitants and is hardly a large risk group for the implementation of health insurance. It is true that larger countries, with 80 million or less inhabitants, have more compulsory health insurance providers, but the number of inhabitants is also very important here. Simplely smaller risk groups are not able to cope with the risks of healthcare. So it is appropriate that we have one compulsory health insurance provider in Slovenia. The Assembly of the Department of Health Insurance asks you to give your consent to the appointment of Tatjana Mlakar as Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to appoint Dr. Tatjana Mlakar as Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 8. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Council for Culture. The proposal was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Dr. Ignacija Friedl Jarc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with Article 16, paragraph 16, the Minister responsible for Culture proposed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for the appointment of a new member of the National Council for Culture as it is 26. 11. 2020 Member of the National Council for Culture Istok Kovac made a statement of resignation. Allow me, on behalf of the proposer, to present the professional characteristics or qualifications of the proposed candidate, Dr. Aleš Pavlin. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana in 1994 and studied in film and television production in 2011. Between 1995 and 1999, he worked as a film and television producer at the Academy of Theatres, Radio, Film and Television Ljubljana, while working with Television Slovenia and Channel A. Between 1999 and 2002, he was the director of marketing and cinema distribution and an official representative of the United International Pictures multinational. During this period, he was also appointed by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the expert group for the preparation of the motion for a film law. In 2002 he took the place of Executive Director of Golden Drum festival, an international advertising festival, and the Slovenian Advertising Festival; he was also a member of the administration of Kolosei cinematographs and a member of the organizing committee of Golden Drum festival. In 2006 he became a partner and co-owner at Perfo Production House. He is the author of many professional contributions in Marketing Magazine, on the marketing side of Dela, also publishes the regular monthly column Kino Inventura in Part of the Weekend Annex. From 2004 to 2010, Studio Drum, a directing experiment with six established film directors from six different countries, was conducted as a producer. In 2012 the European Film Promotion's selected him to be a rising producer, namely Producers on the move, organized as part of the Cannes Film Festival. Between 2012 and 2017, he was a member of the Broadcasting Council of the Republic of Slovenia. He is also a member of the European Film Academy and is voting for European Oscars, a member of the European Producers Club. In 2014, 2018 and 2020, he was elected to the European Commission’s expert committee for the selection of projects notified to the Media Development Projects tender. He also has an academic career, since 2012 he has been a professor at the Ljubljana AGRFT and a carrier of AV-production items. He regularly hosts as a lecturer at the Faculty of Dramatic Arts in Belgrade. From all the above references, the Government has demonstrated its professional competence as a member of the National Council for Culture and has therefore proposed it to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve the membership of Iztok Kovac in the National Council for Culture, and on a member's term of office of the National Council for Culture appointed by the Decision appointing the President and the members of the National Council for Culture of 26. 9. 2019, named Dr. Aleš Pavlin. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u20	No, procedurally, I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u21	Procedural proposal, colleague Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u22	I'm a little confused. I have previously listened to Lucko Böhm according to the views of the parliamentary groups, this has never been before, and now we are voting on discharge and appointment at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Yes, at one conclusion, yes, because it was very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u24	One decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u26	I don't know if there's one conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u27	Yeah, there's one conclusion, there's no other conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u28	What's one decision to make, President, is that we're going to solve one first, and then we're going to name one. That's what I have to say. I don't understand. If you understand, explain it to me. I guess we'll get to know each other first, then we'll probably call each other. Let's get organized, at least in my opinion, it makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u29	Such a decision was proposed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and this is it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u30	Then Mr Hršak, the President, must have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u31	I don't see any problems here, and you're the only one who can see them. Dear colleagues, [[…]] Procedural? What's your procedural proposal, colleague Han?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u32	Let us first vote on the resolution, which is logical, or let us get to know the resolution; and then we vote on the appointment, because I can have two positions here or I can vote twice. Whether I abstain from getting rid of him because he gave up, and then I vote in favour or against him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u33	This is the material prepared by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u34	You're the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u35	And we won't interfere. [[…]] Mate Matthew T. Vatovec, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u36	Thank you. I think Matjaž has opened some pretty convincing question or dilemma. No matter what the Mandate-Election Commission has proposed, there may be mistakes. I will not point the finger, it has nothing to do with it, but as chairman, of course, you must also make sure that all the votes are not only legitimate but also legal. One logic is that we should first find out that someone is no longer a member and then replace this man or fill the city. I propose that either the session is currently adjourned or we vote on it next time. I agree that this cannot be done in such a way that one conclusion makes two things at a time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u37	Even my colleague, Victory Jelinčič, has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I agree with both speakers. After all, we cannot solve this all of a sudden and re-set it. These are two conclusions, each decision must be made separately if we are to respect the procedure and if we are to respect the system that must be as it is. But if we go long and fast, then I don't know what. In this country too much work is done long and hard, so I think that this proposal made by colleague Han makes absolutely sense. President, I don't think that would be a problem if we could handle this now in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u39	I'm not going to crush this now, which is what we got proposed by the Mandate-Election Commission. If there is a majority here, we can postpone the matter and perhaps discuss it at the Rules of Procedure Commission, if most are sufficient. Otherwise, I'm going to make a decision as we received it from the Mandate-Election Commission. If the matter is not voted out, the matter will go into a new procedure. But please just focus on the question of whether we should postpone the matter. My colleague Natasha Sukič has the floor. Please, one more warning, not to repeat the same suggestions; we have heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u40	Mr President, I suggest you listen to a logical argument. I cannot be against the decision of Iztok Kovac, but I can be against the new proposed member. And how do I put this in one joint? Shall I be against the rescue of the island of Kovac, who wants to be freed himself? That's what this is about. The island of Kovac has made his own decision, and we can't deny it. But I can challenge a new person, and I can imagine any other person in this place. That's what we're talking about, plain and simple. Therefore, I ask you to accept reasonable arguments that are justified and stop complicating in essence across the board. This really isn't right anymore. It's forced into this joint. I suggest you stop the session and arrange it in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u41	Dear colleagues, I will not repeat what I have said. It would be a precedent for us now to break down and rephrase our own decision adopted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The services, because I have asked about practice, have pointed out that this is not a practice and that this practice will not be established again today. They also warned me that you were all silent on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and that no one had bothered to do so. And since no one's bothered to do that, today we got this in a plenary session. We're not at the inn that we're just going to make a deal right now – let's put a few more inside and something out, and we're going to split it into two joints. We cannot afford this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now my proposal as, I will say, a step against those who have some concerns is to put to the vote the decision to postpone the matter and to put it to a decision at the next meeting; or I will give it as a second option, even if this proposal is not voted on, a decision to make. That's it. Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u42	Mr President, you are now logically saying that if someone has made a mistake, we must bless this mistake. At the same time, you argued – by burning this mistake we will not introduce a new practice into the National Assembly. You've made a logical point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u43	No, Comrade Trček, for the first time, this was not a procedural proposal. Secondly, the responsibility of you requires that you prepare, or challenge, material for a plenary session on a mandate-holder's or on a working body as it is. But not now on Monday, “five before twelve”, you would now be changing something inside the conclusions. I told you. Comrade Divac Mirnik, you still have a procedural proposal. I hope it is something more original than what we have heard or have not responded to.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since we have MVK President Hršak sitting among us, let us simply explain why he decided to change practice [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u45	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u46	And then we can decide. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u47	Look, this isn't serious right now. That's not serious. Dear colleagues, colleagues, you were present at the Mandate- volition committee. If you haven't done your job there, tell yourself that. My friend Jani Möderndorfer has a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u48	President, you refer to the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Practice by not having one article in the Rules of Procedure to argue what you are now saying, but only parliamentary practice. Parliamentary practice, however, is changing if we find out if something is wrong. I'm not counting on us to figure out what's wrong or what's wrong. But if there is doubt and such a great dilemma, which has been argued by Members, that they cannot in fact decide on one person or another who appears within the same decision, then at least what is – and, President, you have this option – to just withdraw from the agenda. Just get out of the agenda and let the MKV clear this up again so we don't clean this up here because we're not gonna lose anything; we're wasting time. However, if we do not go, despite doubts, to the vote, this is the same as if we said the following: I repeat, the MVK has decided that MEPs must dig in Ljubljana. Whether this is right or not, see, parliamentary practice has been, and this is what they sent us, and we have to vote on it now. I'm sorry, I don't agree to this discussion. President, I expect from you the great degree of reason you have. That's just to get it off the agenda. The MVK will decide this week because it can call an extraordinary meeting at any time, it will be decided; and you will have this on the agenda at the next regular session. We won't miss anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u49	Dear Jani, we are not yet in this system that the President will just withdraw something and we will have nothing to decide on. I have no basis for this, and I ask you not to come up with such suggestions as do not drink water according to the rules of procedure. Given that, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have explained at the meeting what are the possible outcomes. I will put to the vote this opportunity to move the matter. However, if it does not move, we will decide on a decision drawn up by the Commission of Mandate. That's what the rules of procedure tell us, and we're not going through this today. Comrade Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u50	Chairman, thank you. Since there have been so many proposals today, I will make the next proposal. We don't have any external members on the Mandate-Election Commission. Please interrupt for 10 minutes, the president is here, the commission can resolve this in two conclusions, and then we have an extension of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u51	Look, I told you how I'm gonna do it. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I first decide to postpone the decision on the matter to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. So we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that I have already read. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 12. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the discharge of a member of the Board of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The government is 18. 2. 2021 The National Assembly has proposed that in the Council of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia, a member of Dr. Aleš Kuhar, who is 2. 12. 2020 made a statement of resignation. The Government's proposal was addressed as the working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve a member of Dr. Aleš Kuhar in the world of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u52	Now you have introduced some new practice and I see no reason to vote on it now. We'll be together next time. My friend Hršak will write this as a two-way show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we're almost there. Please, let's just hang in there for a while, 'cause it's gonna be over soon. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for the President, Patricia Chular, for the remainder of the term of office of the Supervisory Committee appointed by the Decision appointing the President and the nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant of 29. 1. 2020. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to establish that Matthew Kosher has made a withdrawal statement from the seat of the member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and therefore ends his term of office as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Ms Kociper, a colleague, has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u54	President, thank you very much. I'll support this decision because I think it's properly set. However, given the dilemma we had today, I would like to say that this is the right way to form a joint. In the meantime, I have found the Government's proposal at the previous point, where it is clear that the Government has proposed two points; for the first time, as a member of the National Council for Culture, Istok Kovac, and for the second time, that as a member of the National Council for Culture, Dr. Aleš Pavlin. It is clear from this that the National Assembly should also decide on two decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-08-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u55	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you be more active on the Mandate-Election Commission. [[advertising from the hall]] We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Members and members of the College are informed that the College will start at 3 p.m. in a large salon.
