ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Monika Gregorčič from 14:00 to 18:00, Mateja Udovč from 13:00 to 16:00, Jerca Korče from 12 noon, Yuri Lepi from 13:00 to 18:00, and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 12 noon. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on the Jamming of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Peter Ješovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the framework of the covida-19 pandemic, the Group of the European Investment Bank was invited to significantly strengthen its business in support of companies established in the European Union affected by the crisis. Therefore, the Pan-European Guarantee Fund was established as a response. This Fund is part of the overall package of measures agreed upon by the Eurogroup and endorsed by the European Council. The objective of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund is to respond to the economic impact of the covida-19 pandemic by providing companies in participating Member States with sufficient short-term liquidity to cope with the crisis and to continue their growth and development over the medium term. The Fund, with a target of EUR 25 billion in the case of contributions from all Member States, is managed by the EIB Group. By exploiting its own resources and mobilizing additional private sector funding, the EIB aims to generate up to €200 billion in additional funding. Through the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, the EIB Group, in cooperation with selected financial intermediaries, will provide a number of ownership, debt and guarantee products in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. An invitation to tender for the application of interest has already been published in order to select financial intermediaries from participating Member States in accordance with standard procedures. The Pan-European Guarantee Fund scheme is welcome for the Slovenian economy as it complements the market funding offer and ensures that Slovenian companies will have access to quality and programme-oriented instruments through qualified financial intermediaries. The purpose of this proposal is to provide the legal basis for the Republic of Slovenia to accede to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in order to guarantee this Fund in a proportionate manner. By this law, the Republic of Slovenia would provide a guarantee of its proportional share in the EIB, which is approximately 0.28 per cent of the point or slightly more than 70 million euro in the period until 31 December 2037. In the event of the adoption of this Act, the Republic of Slovenia would conclude with the EIB a guarantee agreement or an English guarantee agreement and a contribution agreement or an English Contribution Agreement. These are agreements whose content is the same for all participating Member States. Participation by Member States is voluntary and so far 21 Member States have joined the fund. The objective of this Fund is different from the objectives of the measures already taken by the State, which dealt with the direct liquidity problems of Slovenian companies as a priority in order to survive the crisis. In the case of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, this is a coordinated approach for Member States to move forward, namely the resolution of financial undertakings demonstrating the ability of medium- or long-term development growth. Since the proposed law is the basis for the issue of a guarantee and the conclusion of an agreement with the EIB, in order to enable the participation of Slovenian financial intermediaries and thereby the access of Slovenian companies to the products of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, I propose that the law be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 32nd meeting, on 24 February 2021, the Finance Committee considered the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely the three articles. In an additional introductory explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objective and purpose of the proposal for a law whereby Slovenia, as a co-founder, can join the Pan-European Guarantee Fund and provide a guarantee in proportion to the share of the fund. Through the fund, companies will indirectly access liquid assets to overcome the consequences of the pandemic. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments had been tabled on the basis of the opinion of the Service and that most of the comments made by the Service with these amendments had been taken into account. In the debate, the members and members of the committee supported the proposal of the law by ensuring that liquid assets can be obtained for businesses. Some have been severely affected by the crisis and will need additional funds to finance operating assets and investments. During the discussion, the members of the Committee were interested in the question of the possibility of applying for an invitation to tender or whether the SID of the Bank could do so as well as in the assessment of the guarantees given in terms of their possible redemption. The fact that the deposits of companies in Slovenian business banks increased significantly in 2020 was also highlighted. During and after the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u6	In Levica, we do not oppose European liquidity solutions to public institutions and businesses within the European Union, in particular with a view to maintaining employment and covering employee income losses, but we do not support the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in its current design. The fund will not provide liquidity directly to companies, but will provide guarantees to banks to issue loans to businesses. So it's basically again about bank resolution and not business. Such a solution may benefit countries from the centre with a strong domestic banking sector, such as Germany. For Slovenia, where you, ladies and gentlemen have privatised most of the banks, it means, above all, protecting foreign banking capital against potential losses. But the banking sector remains practically the only sector that has not been significantly affected by the epidemic, including by us. The profit of the pre-tax banking system was €472 million last year. In the last financial stability report, the Bank of Slovenia stressed that the resilience of the Slovenian banking system remains good even during a period of tight economic conditions. Most of the funds spent by the State to help businesses and the population ended up in private banks in foreign ownership. Last year, when the country produced 3.5 billion euros in deficits, the balance sheet sum of Slovenian banks increased by 3.4 billion euros. One would think that when we have such well-capitalised banks, we can expect to be able to lend generously to the population and the economy, but the opposite has happened. Banks of this inflow of money, which comes largely from the state minority, are filled by all citizens and citizens, have not spent on spending credit to the domestic population and businesses. Why? Because it's not profitable for them. Credits to the domestic non-bank sector fell by 1.4% in 2020; at the same time – watch out – credit growth for foreigners with Slovenian money increased by 28%. Slovenian banks play roughly the same role as private health institutions in solving the current crisis. The provider of crisis resolution is public health, and health care professionals are not paid to deal with the crisis, so they are nowhere to be seen except when they demand the assistance of the state. Private banks do not increase the lending of the local population, nor do they finance key investments because, as I have already mentioned, this is not worth it. On the contrary, with the help of countries, they contribute to the flight of capital abroad and then become loud when they need a country to provide credit guarantees and thus protect them against inherited investments through public money. It's like we've never seen this script in this country before. In the event of problems, banks will simply collect state guarantees and no longer deal with businesses, and countries will be stabbed by the rehabilitation of their next business. This is how countries share risks and private banks privatise profits; despite the fact that banks have strong support from the ECB and only the budgetary resources they need or need to strengthen the social state, public health and the public pension system. The current situation has not come from somewhere, but from past harmful political decisions. After the last crisis in the banks, the government's political set-up swept away €4.5 billion of public money and then sold it for change to foreigners. Now, at the peak of the epidemic, these privatised banks have realised almost half a billion euros in profits, of which we do not have the slightest benefit, and people in this country suffer and are barely breaking through from day to day. The solution for Slovenia is therefore not State guarantees for foreign private banks, the solution is diametrically the opposite – strengthening the SID of the bank as the only serious financial institution left in the hands of the State and renationalising the Slovenian system banks. Only in this way will we force banks that do not currently play the basic role of lending to the domestic economy to start investing in projects that will serve the country's development, social and environmental objectives; not to fill the pockets of foreign owners. Instead of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which protects the profits of bank capital, the only serious alternative is the nationalisation of systemic banks. After all, a country that does not control its banking system cannot consider itself a sovereign state, but rather a colony of the financial market.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, Mag. Yeshovnik! On 19 May last year, the informal ECOFIN meeting, which, of course, also includes our Slovenian Finance Minister, Mr Mag. Andrej Shircelj, met to take note of the progress made in implementing the agreed measures to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 epidemic. At that time, on 19 May last year, for information only, a regulation on the launch of the SURE instrument was also approved, with which the European Union wants to protect – and in fact it already works – jobs and workers during the current crisis. At that time, last May, the finance ministers also set out the basic dimensions of the third pillar of the bailout package, represented by the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which would enable the European Investment Bank to increase its lending activity by up to EUR 200 billion, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. Today we have on the table the Proposal for a Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund. The purpose of this law is to ensure that Slovenia, as co-founder of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund and in a proportionate proportion, guarantees this fund. In this way, the Slovenian economy is given access to additional liquidity assets, which are a particular problem at this time, to overcome the crisis as the consequences of covida-19. The programme loans guaranteed by the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will be intended to finance operating assets and investments. The Fund will allow the European Investment Bank Group, with a total guarantee of EUR 25 billion, to increase its financial support to European companies, including Slovenian companies, to an additional EUR 200 billion; with emphasis on – which is particularly important for New Slovenia – small and medium-sized enterprises. The State guarantee shall cover in proportion the risk of default of all loans secured by the funds of this fund, irrespective of the country from which the recipient does not repay the loans. The Pan-European Guarantee Fund provides for the contribution of all 27 Member States of the European Union in the form of guarantees and is also available for contributions from other entities. The expected net loss of the fund is also estimated at 20%, which means that the amount of the call for guarantees is estimated to reach that proportion, i.e. 20%. The guarantee provides for the coverage of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, also limited to large companies and legal persons of public law who carry out activities in the field of health care, health research or the provision of services related to the health crisis; this is also extremely important for us in New Slovenia. The financing of end-users will be carried out through financial intermediaries and banks which will obtain the guarantee of this fund for this purpose. The guarantee of this fund covers up to 75 % of the loan to the final recipients, the remaining risk is borne by financial intermediaries and banks that have obtained the guarantee. We are pleased that, in the second reading of the Committee on Finance, we have prepared the appropriate text of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which will also be supported by the New Slovenia Group at the vote in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With the adoption of the law we are considering today, Slovenia will join the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which is under the auspices of the European Union. The aim of the Fund is to increase the liquidity of the economy, which has been crippled by the epidemic crisis in the past year. As a result, companies do not achieve the credit ratings required by private lenders. That is why Europe will mobilise additional funding from the private sector through Member States' guarantees. The fund will guarantee loans totalling EUR 200 billion. In order for the Fund to actually come to life, it must be supported by a sufficient number of members, who will guarantee guarantees in proportion to their share. The share guaranteed by Slovenia amounts to slightly less than 0,3 % of the Fund's total assets, but the risk of redemption is actually estimated at EUR 14 million. Guarantees for loans are specifically intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. Large companies and legal persons of public law will also benefit from these activities, which carry out activities related to the health crisis. In the first wave of the epidemic, Slovenia adopted a domestic guarantee scheme. We have not opposed it in the SAB, but we have warned from the outset that the conditions are inadequate and that loans with State guarantee will only be leased by large companies with high revenues from sales in 2019. Only the sixth anti-korona package provided a guarantee of 25% of the revenue, which raised the demand slightly, but unfortunately for many companies it was too late and still inadequate. In the SAB we support the guarantee scheme, but we call on both the government and the competent ministry to inform the public and stakeholders of the domestic economy in a timely and appropriate manner of the conditions and criteria that companies will have to meet to obtain guarantees. We do not want new episodes that we have witnessed in the procurement of medical and protective equipment and rapid tests in which certain suppliers are linked to the government. We do not want new episodes that we have witnessed in the event of the government's inappropriate communication with the innkeepers who only learned in the second wave of the epidemic that they could carry out their activities, as did those who were close to the government. In the SAB, we want to provide guarantees to domestic companies for loans under the same conditions. To avoid the above-mentioned episodes, we appeal to the government and to the Ministry of the Interior for clear, timely and correct information on the basis of which accession to the European Guarantee Scheme will enable all and not only selected companies. In the SAB Group, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The European Union is trying to organise a successful fiscal defence for the period of post-pandemic shock, and it must, in order to halt the upcoming crisis, go to the end of the historically unrecorded fiscal expansion measures. The European Investment Bank wants to create up to €200 billion of additional funding for the economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, their liquidity and operating assets. The State guarantee is intended to cover, in proportion to the proportion, the risk of non-refunding of all loans secured under this fund, irrespective of the country from which the recipient does not repay the loans. In fact, it is less important whether the projected volume of the guarantee fund will amount to EUR 200 billion or more or less. The fundamental question that is being raised is whether this is how a fiscal union within the European Union is slowly created. In the first round, this could only be a response to the epidemic and later a certain level of fiscal community could likely become a characteristic of the Union. The fiscal union would mean that the central government – the European Commission – could devote money to the less developed and the European Parliament could adopt laws on various tax obligations, which would interfere with the sovereignty of the Member States. Wealthier would be given, although some of them are convinced that this is not worth it, but the fiscal account is different from the economic one, so the most powerful countries are interested in organising at least a limited fiscal union. From their point of view, it is not irrelevant how many products and services can be sold to less developed members; however, in order to do so, the people of these countries must have sufficient purchasing power. Investment in these countries therefore indirectly leads to an increase in their economic growth. The crisis caused by the virus has halted economic growth in a completely new way, with which we have not had experience so far. The Pan-European Guarantee Fund has become operational in September 2020, it seems that its creators understand the nature of the current crisis and are now in the process of establishing agreed and coordinated policies. Almost every business decision in the company has to deal with the company's finances sooner or later. We must be aware that the essence of the company's funding is to know the financial implications of preparing, adopting, implementing, controlling and analysing decisions on the financing of the company. It is therefore a question of whether the company has the money and whether the available amount of money is in line with the size of the Western liabilities and more – with the size of the desired development of the company. A broader definition means that in addition to the current capacity to pay, the company also has a long-term capacity to pay and thus money to finance development. However, an important finding regarding liquidity is that the availability of money always requires costs, whether real or opportunities. The optimum payment capacity means achieving liquidity as available cash in the amount of outstanding liabilities, taking into account the principles of the cost-effectiveness of the supply of funding resources, the correct prices of those resources and the profitable use of funding resources expressed through the return on the equity unit. The financial consequences of business decisions must be known in the company by all those involved in decision-making. Members of the Desus Group therefore point out that, from the point of view of its existence, no State intervention or any such or other guarantee can replace the financial strategies and tactics of each company. We will support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Good day to all of you! From the European Union comes again to us a burdensome and, as usual, harmful idea for Slovenians. The proposal is to join the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, which is the fruit of the European Investment Bank, in particular the European Investment Fund and their implementing partners. When you read on the official pages of the European Union, who will be saved by this fund, you can hardly doubt it. From Europe comes the economic rescuer of the pandemic. More to the point, a rescuer for certain companies abroad. On paper, of course, the idea is presented in a way that this faster and easier acquisition of credit will help small and medium-sized enterprises that are the pillars of the European economy. They will receive new financial injections to re-emerge, reduce unemployment and once again have economic growth. The financing of these companies or end-users, which will be across Europe – if we are humble enough and depressed, will also be carried out in Slovenia – through financial intermediaries, for which we are also in doubt about their transparency. The bill even states that the implementation will not give rise to direct financial obligations for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is intended to guarantee the obligations of third parties. It also states very carefully that direct financial obligations could occur if undertakings did not repay loans in accordance with the contractual arrangements; and here is the main problem. Slovenia will guarantee from the state budget for companies that will not be able to repay loans and will be committed by 31 December 2037. The guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia under this law will be irrevocable, unconditional and will be cashed at the first written call of the European Investment Bank. Slovenia will, of course, guarantee for all companies, regardless of which country this company comes from. If, for example, all business in Portugal is involved, we will pay the Slovenians, just as we paid the Greeks in the financial crisis, even though we had nothing to do with it. Of course, it is beautifully written how Slovenians will have their representatives and co-decision in the fair distribution of funds of the Fund. Sounds like a fairy tale. A Committee of Investors will be established to oversee the activities of this Fund. Each Member State will have its own member and alternate member of the committee to decide with the partner committee on the fair allocations of the Fund's funds. We will send our representatives there, but they will, as the standard, contribute to large-scale decisions and invest in different European companies. And if the big ones decide that by excluding Slovenia they will also receive companies, foreign companies, and when there is a guarantee for these investments, they will certainly not exclude us. The bill is harmful and dangerous for Slovenia, and there is no need for foreigners under the influence of large international capital to decide which Slovenian company deserves or does not deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, the purpose of the Act is to ensure that Slovenia joins the Pan-European Guarantee Fund as co-founder and in a proportionate proportion guarantees that it is in compliance. This ensures that the Slovenian economy has access to additional liquidity means to overcome the crisis as a result of the covida-19 pandemic. The programme loans guaranteed by the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will be intended to finance operating assets and investments. The main solutions to this law are: the European Investment Bank Group for the purpose of financing the economic consequences of the pandemic has set up the Pan-European Guarantee Fund with guarantees from the Member States of the European Union totalling EUR 25 billion, which will allow the EIB to increase its financial support to European companies up to an additional EUR 200 billion. The emphasis on funding will be placed on small and medium-sized enterprises which will face liquidity shortages due to the crisis. The Pan-European Fund provides for the contribution of all 27 Member States of the European Union in the form of guarantees for which Member States will provide guarantees by 1 December 2037. The financing of end-users will be carried out through financial intermediaries and banks which will obtain the guarantee of this fund for this purpose. The Fund guarantee covers up to 75 % of the loan to final recipients, the remaining risks are borne by financial intermediaries and banks that have obtained the guarantee. The main objective of this law is to preserve the jobs and activities of businesses. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! By adopting the law that we are considering today, the Republic of Slovenia, as co-founder, will join the Pan-European Guarantee Fund and in a proportionate share, that is, with €70 million, will provide guarantees in this context. The Pan-European Guarantee Fund provides for the contribution of all 27 Member States of the European Union in the form of guarantees and will be of a temporary nature for the time being, as it is envisaged that the members of the Fund will provide guarantees by 31 December 2037. The level of net losses expected by the Pan-European Guarantee Fund is also estimated, which would mean that the amount of the guarantee can reach 20% of the total amount of the fund’s assets, which in the case of Slovenia means a payment of up to EUR 14 million during the period of operation of the Fund. The measure will be aimed at financing mainly small and medium-sized enterprises that demonstrate development potential, which we strongly support in the Marjana Sarca List, as it will be a development breakthrough from the current crisis. This will enable their activities to be maintained, further growth and development and long-term market presence. Let us not forget that many of them are severely affected by the epidemic, so they urgently need fresh capital to finance both the assets and the investments. At the same time, we would like to point out that a certain part of the responsibility for the situation lies with the government, as it has not done all the work outlined in the last year to ensure liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises. Once again, we need to draw attention to the practically unused EUR 2 billion guarantee scheme adopted last spring by the second anti-Korona package. Unfortunately, this scheme has been set up too rigidly and bureaucraticly, although the government repeatedly reiterates the necessity of de-liberating procedures. At that time, we proposed a number of amendments to the LMŠ law that would facilitate the acquisition of loans, but unfortunately, with all the amendments we have tabled, we have come across a deaf ear. Sir, this unfortunate crisis has unfortunately cut deep, its consequences require a rapid response mainly in the economic field, where we need to protect our most vital companies, so in the LMŠ we welcome the idea of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund for the provision of liquidity and we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of this law will allow the creation of a common European guarantee scheme to help businesses with the covida-19 pandemic. This guarantee scheme will serve as a credit guarantee for banks, allowing companies to obtain bank loans at a lower rate, lower requirements for additional insurance, longer duration and so on. The Guarantee Mechanism shall be established at the level of the European Union or at the European Investment Bank. It shall be guaranteed by the Member States. The adoption of this law therefore means the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 70 million. The joint guarantees will enable the European Investment Bank to provide a total of €200 billion of financial assistance to companies – especially small and medium-sized enterprises at European Union level. As already mentioned, the mechanism will operate in the form of guarantees for bank loans that companies hire to solve problems related to the covida-19 pandemic. In this way, companies should be given easier and cheaper access to credit resources, which is certainly worth supporting. Therefore, in the SD Group, we support this bill, both because of the principle of European solidarity and because of greater efficiency, when Europe acts together and in a coordinated manner, but because of the way in which the so-called coronacrisis in Slovenia and Europe is resolved, we need to highlight something else with this topic of related issues. Europe and Slovenia based the main aid on credit repayments to be provided to the affected economy by commercial banks. Of course, accessible and favourable credits are an important part of economic survival and job conservation measures, but they cannot be alone. Resistance and recovery from the crisis also require grants, which unfortunately are being pushed into a different plan at both European and Slovenian levels. We hope that the creation of a European guarantee scheme will also allow Slovenian companies faster and more favourable access to credit. Experience has shown that such loans are not accessible to Slovenian companies. The main culprits are too bureaucratic rules, in which despite warnings the Slovenian government insists. Therefore, Slovenian companies are making it harder and more expensive to obtain anti-crisis loans from banks. However, companies receive State compensation almost two months after the costs incurred, in the face of a constant threat of recovery of the aid received. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we reiterate our support for Slovenia's participation in the European Guarantee Mechanism. However, the Government is reminded that assistance to Slovenian companies will only be provided if the government does its own homework and ensures that the state aid and guarantees are not only spent, but also paid in time to all those who are trying to maintain their activity and employment at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u22	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We estimate that this is one of the good measures that will help the economy recover faster after the epidemic at European Member State level. The European Commission describes the interlocking of all the countercyclical measures taken as three safety nets. The SURE instrument is a safety net for workers, the European Investment Bank fund is a safety net for businesses, and the European Stability Mechanism loans are security nets for countries. This whole fiscal package totals €540 billion. The aid measure increases the role of the European Investment Bank through the European Investment Fund guarantee schemes and through the establishment of the Pan-European Guarantee Fund of EUR 25 billion. By mobilising additional private sector funding, however, there is a desire to generate up to €200 billion of aid to the economy. The Fund provides guarantees to national and local banks and other financial intermediaries in order to enable financing to small and medium-sized enterprises which would be more difficult to obtain loans as a result of the crisis. Companies may so request funding directly or from financial institutions in their countries. The participating countries shall, however, provide guarantees proportionate to their share in the EIB. State guarantees will thus cover potential losses that may arise in the EIB's operations. The deadline for applications and approvals of projects is limited to 31 March 2021, with an extension of 6 months; however, it is envisaged that the members of the Fund will provide guarantees by 31 December 2037. In the SMC Group, we agree that although Slovenia is relatively good at the liquidity situation of our economy for the time being, due to the possible continuation of the crisis, it must also allow companies access to new guarantee schemes. That is why our country joins this Pan-European Guarantee Fund, although it is not among the first. While the Fund has been operational since October 2020, it has been joined by Member States which together form more than 90% of the capital of the European Investment Bank. It was not until December that the European Commission approved the establishment of the Fund or found that its operation was in accordance with State aid rules. However, it is difficult to predict whether and to what extent our companies and financial intermediaries will serve this measure at all. Also because in Slovenia we are in a different position from other members of the European Union because of large fiscal incentives for both the population and businesses and because of the complementary national guarantee schemes under anti-Corona legislation. That our economy is in relatively good condition is also seen in Banka Slovenije reports. These reports show that the financing of banks with bank loans is shrinking and banks are increasing the role of companies that have a liquidity reserve nature during the crisis and can later be the source of new investments. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we are also thinking in order for businesses to benefit from an extension of the national guarantee measure from the so-called seventh CAP, which expires in November this year. As already mentioned, we support today's proposal for the bill in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. We have a government representative here? We should be ready. If we don't have it [[…]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, the position will be presented by colleague Andrej Černigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, on the proposal of the three ministries, we are adopting a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration with a clear objective of effective implementation of the tasks of individual ministries, which we welcome and support in Novi Slovenija. The first update extends to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, where forestry is also particularly highlighted as the working area of the Ministry. With the adoption of the Action Plan to enhance the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia by 2020, which was adopted already in 2012 with a significant subtitle Les is beautiful, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has placed the Slovenian forestry industry among strategically important and promising economic sectors. Slovenia is the third most forested country in the European Union for Finland and Sweden, with an annual growth of almost 9 million cubic metres of wood. Although the wood industry is on the rise, we do not yet make sufficient use of this natural wealth. In Novi Slovenija we advocate a shift of the forest economy to the processing of low-carbon materials that enable energy self-sustainment and environmentally friendly green industry. In Slovenia, we are not aware of the exceptional importance of the wood industry in providing greater self-sustainment and self-sufficiency. Since we want to restore greater social importance to forestry, we support activities to systematically support the domestic woodworking industry, one of the most important milestones being the establishment of a Directorate for Forestry, whose priorities are to promote the creation and integration of forestry companies with knowledge institutions and creative industries, to encourage domestic public and private investment, to direct European Union funds, to support the penetration of forestry companies into foreign markets and to promote activities to increase the use of wood. Christian Democrats in the future expect active assistance from the country's forestry industry also by removing bureaucratic barriers to obtaining various permits, where the time component seriously hampers the development of forestry in Slovenia. The second amendment governs the transfer of the powers of military graves from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to the Ministry of Defence, where the Military Heritage Authority will be established to this end, which will act in the composition of the Ministry. In 2003 the War Cemeteries Act was passed in the Republic of Slovenia and in 2015 the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims was adopted. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia has long not developed an institution that deals with hidden war graves. Under the rule of Borut Pahor in 2010, the War Cemetery Service was even disbanded. And right on this day, it will be twelve years now since the discovery of the tomb in the grave pit. Modern trends in the development of military history at home and abroad recommend linking museum, research and education activities, as this is the only way to preserve military cultural heritage. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we welcome the division of the Department of Military Heritage into three pillars: museum activity, care for war graves and, finally, a very important area – veterans. In the light of the invisible enemy and thus the new facts at the time of entry into the country and the poor management of property in the border crossing area, we welcome the last addition that the Ministry of Interior becomes the manager of these properties during the period until 1 January 2022. To conclude, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are unanimously in favour of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Law on State Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u26	Dear President of the National Assembly, fellow Member and fellow Members, invited guests! The State Administration is part of the public administration and could be designated as an instrument of the State for the performance of its function. At the central level, this function is primarily carried out by the government and the ministries. Article 14 of the Law on State Administration provides for ministries to be set up to perform administrative tasks in one or more administrative areas. Accordingly, the work areas of individual ministries are also set out. The proposal for a law introduces changes in the working areas of certain ministries. It is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The proposal states that the proposed amendments will have a positive impact on the functioning and performance of the tasks of the ministries mentioned above. Thus, the Ministry of Defence is involved in the field of war disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence and war graves. These areas now fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. At first, the bill provided for the transfer of powers to the Ministry of Defence exclusively in the field of military graves. In addition, later additions added the area of war invalids, war veterans, and victims of war violence. This raises the question why the Ministry of Labour, Society and Social Affairs transfer the field of disabled persons to the Ministry of Labour. It is true that this status is due to the exercise of military duties, but in the SAB we are concerned about what this will mean for the rights of disabled persons in the context of disabled persons, social protection and employment policies. The proposal also adds to the work area of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In the law, forestry has not been particularly exposed to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, although the Ministry has already done a number of tasks in this area. Among other things, on the basis of an action plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia under the MGRT, the Forestry Directorate was established in 2015. This has placed the timber industry among strategically important and promising industries. An additional addition to the bill proposed at the meeting of the Committee provides for the transfer of the area of property management in the border crossing area to the management of the Ministry of the Interior. If this means that this infrastructure, which is largely neglected, is regulated and modernised, we welcome such a solution to the SAB. In the SAB, we agree that it is right for certain related tasks or powers to be combined in one place, which, of course, will affect the more transparent functioning of the whole government, but it is important to be careful, especially when the areas of treatment of the most vulnerable groups and their rights are transferred. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The public administration is, in a functional or material sense, an area of state activities dealing with the direct enforcement of laws and other regulations. This is done through the adoption of individual administrative acts and through the provision of professional services and material and technical tasks; in a formal or organisational sense, it is a system of public and public institutions exercising public powers. The effectiveness of the operation of individual subsystems depends on how they are managed by the holders of the highest powers, rationalisation and greater prudence cannot be created with rapid cuts, but gradually between individual sectors. The proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration follows the objectives thus set. The amendments to the organisational structure and working areas of the three ministries, namely, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, are proposed. The area of treatment of military graves will be transferred through organizational change from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to the Ministry of Defence. Work areas will also be transferred to war disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence. The Ministry of Defence is where they are already regulating their status and rights. Simplification and envisaged efficiency of work will thus be achieved through a meaningful link between related areas within one ministry. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology formalizes the establishment of a structure through legal change, the constitutional part of which is also the Directorate for Forestry. It implements its incentive and co-financing policies as part of its decision on the timber industry as a strategically important and promising economic sector. Slovenia is one of the most forested countries in Europe. According to the Institute for Forests, the forest area is somewhat less than a million and 200 thousand hectares or more than half of the country’s surface area. In other words, the forestry of Slovenia is 58% and the annual growth of wood is estimated at 8 million and 800 thousand cubic metres. Nor can it be overlooked that 21% of the forests are owned by the state, 3% are owned by municipalities and 76% are privately owned. Larger and narrower forest holdings of state forests make it possible to manage economically and more easily. But the problem is a fragmented private forest estate. According to the latest data, there are already 286,000 forest properties in Slovenia, owned by as many as 413 thousand owners or co-owners. Such extensive fragmentation makes professional work and optimal use of wood in private forests difficult. Members of the Desus Group support the Directorate for Forestry's efforts in the systematic resolution of this important economic sector. Growth in this area needs to be accelerated through development policies as well as fiscal measures. We need to make sure that growth is qualitative. However, the quality of growth based on the use of domestic raw materials, productive investments in the ability to produce products of higher value added and on a solid structure of quality exports is qualitative. The draft amendment to the Law on State Administration will be supported by Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u30	Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government lit a green light on the proposal of the Law on State Administration, where three ministries intertwine. The work of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is changing; the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. It seems wise to us that the coalition parties with the amendment have proposed to transfer, in addition to the authority in the field of military graves, to the Ministry of Defence, also a work area concerning war disabled persons, veterans of war and victims of war violence. As we know, the protection of war graves in the Republic of Slovenia and the war graves of Slovenian victims abroad are regulated by the War Cemetery Act and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. Thus we have war graves from World War I and World War II and hidden war graves. The vast majority of war graves are also further protected and classified as archaeological remains. The service for war graves was even disbanded in 2010. The amendment also provides for the establishment of the Administration of Military Heritage as a body within the Ministry, with some on the left hand side having slight concerns. The Ministry of Defence will also take over a number of relevant public officials under its auspices. In determining the annual programme for the protection of an individual war cemetery in addition to the national and cultural significance, the Ministry shall also take account of the alternative inclusion of these facilities in the tourist, cultural and other activities of a particular place. In September last year, the Minister of Defence and the Director of the Park of Military History, Pivka, signed a contract to co-finance the operation of the park in 2020 and 2021, a total of 200 000 euros each year. The park is undoubtedly an example of good practice, where it is an important factor in maintaining national military historical memory, while also an important partner in the promotion of our Slovenian Army to domestic and foreign visitors. Thus, we are actually witnessing an exceptional defence-security, educational, economic and national aspect. We can also praise the fact that the only museum in the Republic of Slovenia with a larger permanent exhibition dedicated to the independence of our country. From now on, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in addition to the rest of these tax duties, will also carry out forestry tasks. We must not forget that the Forestry Directorate has been in operation since 2015. The fact that we cannot pass is that the Republic of Slovenia has lost around €10 billion over the last decades by neglecting the wood industry, which has been on the sidelines. The latter show data and studies which are the basis for the preparation of the wood industry strategy by 2027. The export data also show us that Slovenia is still exporting too much wood. The consequences are reflected in the decrease in the number of employees in the wood and furniture sectors. As far as wood is concerned, too little is used for energy renovation of buildings and new buildings. We therefore need concrete measures and activities to accelerate the development of the timber sector in our country. In the end, if I do everything together, the proposal will have a beneficial effect on the economy precisely because of the greater efficiency and more transparent functioning of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Janez Moskrič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! On the basis of the Government's proposal and the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, four amendments to that law are before us concerning the functioning of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Due to the increased competitiveness of the forest and forest chain and the fact that Slovenia has placed the timber chain as a strategic sector, the area of forestry as a working area of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is now legally defined. Much has already been said about forestry, but when it comes to green construction, woody, this does not mean that we take beautiful shades to neighbouring countries and bring back vacuum-packed semi-manufactured products that we build with. This is an area that needs to be further regulated. The War Cemeteries Act was passed in the Republic of Slovenia in 2003. The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims was not published until 2015. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the main institution of the War Cemetery Act until this amendment is implemented. The Republic of Slovenia has not developed an institution dealing with war graves. However, the service for war graves was disbanded in 2010. The area of hidden military graves and the burial of victims is under the authority of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology provides support. With the amendment of Article 35 of the Law on State Administration, we impose on the Ministry of Defence, in addition to the tasks of the defence system, the system of protection against natural and other disasters, also the area of war disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence and war graves. All of this will work under the auspices of the Department of Military Heritage, which is already professionally concerned with maintaining military cultural heritage and is working towards the development and participation of all actors. Article 5 of the amendment to the Law on State Administration regulates the status of property in the field of border crossings as the Ministry of the Interior becomes the manager of all property, except for border crossings. With this amendment, the Ministry of Public Administration has listened to local communities and the actual needs of state authorities. The proposed amendments are also followed by international arrangements in the field of war graves and the regulation of the stratagem of veterans. We must be aware that, despite the remote time target of most events in the Republic of Slovenia, we have not managed to regulate this area with dignity. Let us set an example for the countries of the European Union which are based on the ethos of the Antigone and respect for every human life and dignity. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support all the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! There's a lot of calls after the changes in the Law on State Administration. For example, that part, which is rather unfortunate, is in fact harmful to the management of public administration information and communication systems. At the moment, one of the biggest problems seems to be the placement of the area of war graves within the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Although we believe that the placement of this area within the Ministry of Defence is meaningful and that further government plans are in sight. The explanation that the proposed amendments and the completion of the tasks of both ministries, including governments, will make it more effective and more transparent is so cliché that the peaceful souls can also release it. Even less so, the government has made an effort to explain why it is necessary to establish the Administration of Military Heritage as a body within the Ministry of Defence. The material says it's because we don't have that kind of administration. That's the explanation. So no explanation, no justification; only that they want to create another administrative body for which we do not understand from the proposed law what this administration is actually going to do. And, of course, we have not learned that today, because the representatives of the Government seem to be under the honor of coming before the MPs of the National Assembly and at least roughly explaining the content of the legislative changes. But it is true that in this case they do not have much to say. We can understand from the title that the Administration will take care of the military heritage. The government can set up such administrative works on its own, without Parliament, and it is clear that the establishment of an administration is far from without financial implications, and employment is essential. Claiming the government representative at the board meeting that this does not mean new jobs, perhaps just some, does not convince us in the List of Marjan Šarc. Experience has shown that promises to attract existing staff from the public administration to such an administration are quite attractive, as in such cases all organisational units are suppressed to be so well fed that they themselves need additional employment. And, of course, this is the creation of another leading job to satisfy the human rights appetites of the ruling coalition. Despite the sense of placing the area of war graves, war invalids, war veterans and victims of war violence within the Ministry of Defence, it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the government is doing this primarily because it needs a basis for the establishment of the Department of Military Heritage, which we do not even know what it will do; it will certainly be a good field for the employment and satisfaction of the staff appetites.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration complements the Article governing the working area of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology by including the forestry field in the work of the Ministry. The Directorate for Forestry is already operating at the Ministry of Economy, which is trying to increase the competitiveness of the forestry sector with various activities. Slovenia, rich in wood, in this sector has not yet reached a higher added value than it could be. The second area covered by the amendment in question is the transfer of tasks in the field of military graves from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Ministry of Defence. The transfer of power between the ministries in relation to war graves is already an old initiative that took place in the mandate when the Social Democrats led both departments, both the social and defence sectors. We believe that the transfer of the competences of the veterinary field in 2014 and 2015 and of military graves as a whole to one place in terms of governance of the area and rationality makes sense. As far as the organisational unit is concerned, this body within the Ministry of Defence, which would be responsible for the management of this area of veteran organisations and war graves, is, in our opinion, re-designated. Only the substantive area, the scope of work and the number of employees do not show the criteria for the establishment of a body in the composition, although the Government may establish such an administrative body in the field of public service by a regulation under Article 21 of the Law on State Administration. We believe that in this case it is not specifically a special task or a particularly difficult professional autonomy in the performance of tasks, especially when we compare this proposal with the bodies in the composition such as the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and both inspectorates. We are aware of the wide range of tasks performed by the Defence Affairs Directorate, or the Military Affairs Branch, as an internal organisational unit of that Directorate, which carries out procedures relating to co-financing of activities and the distribution of the status of society in the public interest and of associations in the field of war veterans and of societies of public interest in the field of defence. However, we believe that some further efforts should be made to ensure that the powers of veteran organisations, military graves and, finally, the areas of military heritage are properly placed in the field of the Ministry of Defence's Department, as proposed today by the proposed amendment. Nevertheless, and despite these concerns, we will support the proposed amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u38	In the SMC Group we support the amendment of the law. The amendment proposes changes in the work areas of the three ministries, namely the Ministry of Labour, Defence and Economy. With regard to the changes in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology led by the SMC, we would like to point out that the changing of the Ministry's work area is a minor complement, but this smaller complement at the symbolic level is very important for us, since the Ministry's work area at the legal level also includes forestry. By adopting the Action Plan to enhance the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain, the Slovenian timber industry was already classified as a strategically important and promising economic sector in 2012. On the basis of this plan, we have accelerated activities in the 2014–2018 SMC government to systematically support the woodworking industry. Due to the delay in the implementation of the Action Plan, the government wanted to create better conditions for the recovery of the industry, and the first step in this direction was the establishment of the Forestry Directorate. With the amendment of the IGRT Sectoral Regulation, the Government established a Directorate as from 1 July 2015. This was also the first step towards a recovery of the industry. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is therefore already carrying out forestry tasks, only that this has not been specifically exposed in the law so far. Why do we want to expose this to SMC today? Minister Zdravko Restoršek has repeatedly stressed the need for the forestry industry to pay more attention and make more use of the country's natural resources. The recovery of the wood industry or the entire chain, from forest to saw and at the end of the furniture industry, is also one of the government's measures for economic growth. With the establishment of the Forestry Directorate, MGRT has joined the system-wide solution to the problem and since 2015, positive results have already been recorded in this area as the number of timber companies has increased by 14%, the revenue of the wood sector by 35 and the added value of around EUR 36,000 per employee. The objectives are even higher, namely to increase domestic refrigeration to 3 million cubic metres per year. The country also wants to achieve a 30% share of wood in public buildings, 15,000 employees in the industry and an increase in sales performance to EUR 2.5 billion per year. Not to mention the positive environmental impact of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Directorate has been implementing various support measures that have allocated around €15 million in recent years to promote investment and programmes, influence the development of legislation to promote wood construction, such as the Green Public Procurement Regulation and the like. The amendment to the bill will give the Directorate a legal framework for further action in both this and future governments. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we also agree that the area of the military graves currently placed in the Ministry of Labour is transferred to the Ministry of Defence. It intends to establish a new body in the composition of the Republic of Slovenia Military Heritage Authority. It is our assessment that museums, research, educational activities and the preservation and care of war graves as a military cultural heritage are linked within the framework of the work of the administration. In addition, the amendment at the meeting of the mother labour body proposed that the area of disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence should also be transferred to the above-mentioned administration, since the content is more of a Ministry of Defence than to the Ministry of Labour, and it already regulates the status of disabled persons and, of course, their rights. Otherwise, in the SMC, we warn that only a change to the Law on State Administration to regulate comprehensive protection and care for war graves will not be sufficient. As you know, the state is obliged to take care of both the protection of war graves and the protection of hidden war graves. In 2003, the War Cemetery Act was passed, and in 2015 the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims was passed. Protection is within the jurisdiction of the IMF or under the new MORS, and protection of the fugitives is still under the responsibility of the MGRT, so in the SMC we will propose to transfer to the Military Heritage Authority or the MORS the responsibility to protect the hidden military graves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! The reorganisation of the state administration is a popular activity of all governments. Most often not because we want to improve the functioning of the state administration, but because of other interests and wishes. We have before us a model example of the establishment of a new body – the Administration for Military Heritage with a view to combining various functions, but all in particular in the direction of opening new jobs for the beneficiaries of a given client. It is not clear from the explanation why such changes to the law would be necessary. If we can still understand that the completion of tasks at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is necessary, since forestry even has its own Directorate, we do not see the need to establish a new administration at the Ministry of Defence for an area such as cemetery management. It has already been shown during the process that the original idea of amending the law is to be added as much as possible. The amendment of coalition parties adopted on the parent board is thus even more bizarre, as the original competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as the disabled and veterans of war is transferred to the Ministry of Defence. This is also a social area linked to social transfers. The consequences of disability are the same for all persons with disabilities, regardless of the cause of disability, which has made the regulation more meaningful to date. Such fragmentation by transferring powers to another ministry can only be politically motivated. A new body will be established in the composition that Nova Slovenije will fill with its own staff; all in the direction of false debirocratisation of the country, and in particular in the direction of demonstrating the exceptionality of militarism activities that need to be excluded as such from other subsystems and merged under the single promoter of militarism – the Ministry of Defence. In Levi, we do not believe that changes to the law are necessary. We strongly oppose the law because it is contrary to the regional organisation of the state administration, which shows that it is a potential abuse of political staffing and the ideological orientation of the new body, as the view of the party of Nova Slovenije currently leading the Ministry of Defence is very questionable about the liberation fight of World War II. In his views, he often represents and excuses the collaborator military units, the so-called patriots, who acted under the command of the criminal Nazi paramilitary party organisation SS. We can rightly believe that the new administration will be used to promote the propaganda of enemies of the Slovenian people of enemy military units, because one is a fifth to all dead and the other is an abuse of the dead for political purposes. Such a law is unnecessary, harmful and allows, in particular, covert party recruitment and, as a result, client propaganda, so we will vote against it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on personal property in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, the position will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and fellow Members, and a respected government wherever you are! The fundamental objective of the new Law on ID card is to comply with the European acquis. The European Regulation on the safety of identity cards requires Member States to harmonise legislation on biometric identity cards by 2 August 2021. This is therefore the last time Slovenia will have to start issuing biometric ID cards. The security levels of national identity cards issued by Member States vary considerably. Such differences increase the risk of falsification and misuse of documents. This has also led the European Union to harmonise the rules on identity cards in all Member States. The new ID card will contain a chip that will store a record of two fingerprints and a photo of the identity card holder. The use of biometric data on the storage medium will be limited solely to verifying the authenticity of the identity of the holder in crossing the national border. Such identity cards, including fingerprints, will be issued to citizens after the age of 12. In Slovenia, biometric passports have been issued since 2006, so the novels follow the solutions already laid down in the Travel Charter Act. The Regulation provides that biometric data should be stored safely and only until the document is taken over and in any event no more than 90 days after the date of the document’s acquisition, then biometric data must be deleted or destroyed immediately. At the same time, the overall use of the ID card will increase for legal representation, as data on the country and place of birth and postal and postal numbers will be added. From now on, the identity card can also be used as an electronic identification tool. It will enable the application to e-government services, electronic signature and use of the ID card as a substitute for a health insurance card if users so wish. In doing so, we are proposing in the SAB that, following the example of neighbouring countries, such as Austria, the possibility that the health insurance card is also a European health insurance card. During the legislative process, the prevalence of the use of the ID card has created some concerns about a certain age, particularly with regard to the protection of the child’s benefit. The Legislative and Legal Service has warned that there is a possibility of certain risks if the electronic identity linked to the ID card is allocated to children after the age of 12 years. We also agree in the SAB that it would be more appropriate to set the age at 15 years of age, at least for electronic identification. Only persons who have completed at least 15 years of age can gain their business ability. The bill also clearly sets out cases in which the consent of both parents is not necessary when applying for a child’s identity card. This will also ensure the prevention of misuse of identity, since, at the time of filing an application for a personal identity card, photographs of an individual will be verified on the basis of other photographs already submitted in the past for the purpose of issuing a personal document. It is also more appropriate to refuse to issue a ID card, suspend and issue a identity card by banning the crossing of the national border. Such a ID card will also contain a special label that will allow border police officers to see the data. In the SAB, we are aware that the protection of personal data is of paramount importance, and in particular this principle must be taken into account in the adoption of laws amending the personal data regime. The protection of personal data must be ensured to everyone and data may be processed if this is lawful and fair. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Personal documents shall show the identity and nationality of the individual. The valid personal documents proving the identity or identity of an individual in the Republic of Slovenia shall be public documents accompanied by a photograph issued by a national authority. Personal ID card is the most widely distributed personal document. Its adaptation to the needs and development of the digitalisation of everyday life brings an addition, as the usual image of the face is added to the fingerprint, which will be stored as a biometric data on the memory medium in the form of encrypted or encrypted writing. In addition to covering biometric data at the time of application, it also provides: the age limit of at least 12 years for the collection of fingerprints; the issuance of a personal identity card with the validity of one year if the collection of fingerprints is not temporarily possible; the retention of fingerprints in the record of issued identity cards until the service of the identity of the identity of the holder in the crossing of the national border; and the use of biometric data on the storage medium, which is limited solely to the verification of the authenticity of the ID card and the identity of the holder in the crossing of the national border. Members of the Desus Group are assessed as a useful arrangement between the Ministry of Public Administration and the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, allowing for a chip on the ID card containing a means of electronic identification of high and low levels of reliability and a qualified certificate of electronic signature. However, it is important that the identity card should only be the carrier of these elements, while the conditions under which the identity card will also be used for the purpose of electronic identification and for electronic signature will be governed by the Law on Electronic Identification and Electronic Signature. This law, which is still in preparation, should also provide that new functionality in the form of a qualified certificate or means of electronic identification cannot be cancelled at the time of the application itself. It will only be possible to withdraw from the card issued to the person who has already issued it. We note the substantive close linkage and thus the co-dependence of the Personal Card Act and the above-mentioned law, since it sets out the legal basis and the way in which these electronic media are used. Such legislative proposals shall, in principle, be submitted simultaneously to the legislative procedure. In this particular case, it is not yet clear how certain relations will be regulated in another law and therefore there is a risk of non-compliance and insufficient legal certainty. In the Desus Group, we believe that the user should be given a choice as to whether or not he wants the means of electronic identification or a qualified certificate to be active when applying for a ID card. The novela also brings many practical solutions, appropriate times and space in which we live. In addition to the address, the new ID card will also include mail and a postal number, which will increase its utility for legal representation. The draft law also better regulates the refusal of the issue of a ID card and the possibility of issuing a ID card by banning the crossing of the national border. A personal card is also a travel document and in certain cases, for example at the request of the court, the police or the Ministry of Defence, travel abroad may be prohibited for an individual. A personal identification card for such a person shall therefore be issued with a special marking allowing a border officer to have access to the data while at the same time holding an identification document for performing in the territory of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the Law on ID bring largely good solutions. We are also aware of the need to follow the regulations of the European Union, which require the Republic of Slovenia to start issuing biometric ID cards this August, and that is why Members of the Desus Group will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u46	Nice greetings, especially from the Ministry! The Republic of Slovenia is one step closer to the introduction of a biometric identity card by proposing the novelty, as the Regulation has ordered the Member States of the European Union to have them by 2. 8. just start betraying. The new modern ID card will contain a chip where a record of two fingerprints and a photo of the document holder's face will be stored. The proposal for a novel provides that from the age of 12, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will obtain a personal card with extended functionality, where an electronic identity will be contained on the memory medium and a qualified certificate for electronic signature. Some wonder about the meaning of a digital identity for children who do not have partially the ability to do so until they are 15 years old. There should also be no choice between classically added biometrics and the so-called multi-purpose ID card, which is also added to the electronic identification service. There will also be no choice between old, classic vignettes and the new e-vignettes that we will have. There is no question or-or, although we know that digitisation, modern technologies and progress are more favoured by younger generations than older generations. The latter only get used to the news, from the use of personal computers, smartphones to tablet computers and similar matters. The question that arises to us in the Slovenian National Party is how it will be safe to see whether there will be more or less abuse. The positive thing is that you don't have to go to the administrative unit, wait there in a long line, because you can make most of it or sign it from home. We agree that there is an important proportionality, the principle of minimum processing of personal data in relation to the quantity of personal data processed in relation to their multipurpose use, as well as the safety, risk of personal cards themselves or memory media. We would also like to know how much resources the Ministry of the Interior will devote to presenting brochures and the production of sample documents to be sent to foreign citizens and what will be the price of identity cards. Electronic signing is now a constant in banks, when insurance policies are drawn up remotely, in education and elsewhere. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems relevant that the validity of the identity card does not cease if the means of electronic identification and the qualified certificate are invalid. We also welcome the fact that the announcement of a failure can also be made through the eGovernment national portal with an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, in accordance with the rules governing electronic identification and electronic signature. This service enables citizens to fulfil their obligations immediately, without delay and in an easy and independent manner from the visit of the administrative unit; they shall ensure the swift withdrawal of the validity of the ID card. We also welcome the proposal to refuse the issue of a ID card or to suspend it in order to prevent the border crossing or to demonstrate the identity of a citizen abroad. This would ensure public order or ensure the course of criminal proceedings, or if the interests of the defence of the State so require, the authority responsible for issuing the identity card. The fifth paragraph of Article 4 of the Regulation implementing the law on identity cards provides that the signature of the application is not necessary if the citizen is unable or unable to sign. Finally, let me stress that this matter interferes with de-de-irocracy and has a lot of room for manoeuvre to upgrade in our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u48	Thank you, President for your word. Very nice greetings all present, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have a summary of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on ID card. The reason for this is that on 2 August 2021 the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on strengthening the safety of Union citizens' identity cards and residence documents issued to Union citizens and their family members exercising their right to freedom of movement, will have to start issuing biometric identity cards. Thus we will have a biometric identity card in addition to the biometric passport, which we welcome very much in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Regulation of the European Parliament follows the objectives of the Treaty on European Union, which is to facilitate the free movement of persons, which means the right to enter and leave the Member States by means of a valid identity card or passport. This underlines the importance of mandatory systematic verification of all persons and their travel documents in the Schengen Information System and of Interpol's collection of data on stolen and lost documents irrespective of the nationality of the holder. It is important to note that more than one billion people travel each year within the European Union and cross its external borders. At the same time, the proposal is based on ensuring the safety of travel documents, identifying documents as one of the key elements in the fight against terrorism and organised crime and, as such, is part of an action plan to strengthen the European response to travel documents fraud. Personal ID cards shall be issued in accordance with national law to 26 EU Member States and the holding of identity cards shall be compulsory in 15 Member States. It was found that the safety levels of national identity cards issued by Member States vary greatly. These differences increase the risk of falsification and abuse of these documents and also give citizens practical problems when they want to exercise the right to freedom of movement. However, the number of frauds with ID cards is increasing. The establishment of minimum safety standards and the inclusion of biometric data in identity cards are therefore important steps towards improving the safety of the use of identity cards in the Union. The introduction of minimum protection elements and taking into account the uniform form of identity cards will allow Member States to rely on the credibility of the documents issued when Union citizens exercise their right to freedom of movement. The EU Regulation also takes into account the aspect of the protection of personal data to be processed in the context of the application of this Regulation, stressing the importance of protecting the measures applicable to sensitive data such as biometric identifiers. With regard to biometric data, the amendment provides that two fingerprints will be taken in a prescribed manner in addition to a photo of citizens from the age of 12. Exemptions for withdrawal may only be health reasons. The fingerprints in the record of issued identity cards shall be kept for as long as the identity card is served, but not more than 90 days from the date of issue of the identity card. Where the fingerprinting is temporarily not possible, the identity card shall be issued with one-year validity. The identity card shall include, inter alia, a chip containing biometric data of an individual who can only be used to verify the authenticity of the identity of the identity of the holder. The proposal to amend the law also provides for a correction in practice by detecting shortcomings. This also adds mail and postal number to the ID card. For those who do not actually have a place in Slovenia or a temporary or permanent residence, they will have “without residence” in their identity card. However, since the European Parliament Regulation allows a personal card issued after 12 years of age to contain means for electronic identification, the chip on the ID card may also contain a qualified certificate for electronic signature, thus facilitating access to electronic services by amending the law governing the field of electronic identification. The bill has slightly higher financial implications, which is linked to the construction of an information structure that will allow the issuance of new biometric cards. It is also necessary to ensure the acquisition of additional information equipment for fingerprinting when data capture is not possible in the administrative unit. This is mainly the case when administrative staff, for example, will have to take fingerprints at the home of older citizens or at home to an individual, but the cost is negligible compared to what the identity card brings to citizens and citizens in the future. In addition, the use of a new ID card as a substitute for a health insurance card is envisaged in the future, which is already in line with the Health Insurance Office. As we can see, the proposal to amend the law has a great impact on the privacy of people or on their personal data and has therefore been aligned with the information officer. To conclude with certainty, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is following digital developments and is looking at the long-term implementation of new solutions, which means that the proposed amendments to the Law on Identity Card are aimed at taking on more modernisation by one move. This will not cause citizens and citizens to have to change their ID card more than once, nor will they be subject to additional costs. In addition, the government of Janez Janša points to operationalisation, since Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 was adopted already in the time of the Sharčev government and has not been implemented in the Slovenian legal order. This government will bring this amendment of the law into line with the legal order of the European Union. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! As of this August, we will therefore issue only biometric identity cards in Slovenia, which in practice means that there will be a chip on the card containing the image of the holder and fingerprints as a means of verifying the authenticity of the card and the identity of the holder when crossing the national border. The added value of the new ID card will be a qualified certificate for electronic signature, which will certainly significantly increase the use of electronic services in the public and private sectors. Such a concept of a new ID card was envisaged in the preparation of amendments to the law in the government of Marjan Šarc, after the solutions were jointly sought by the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration. Discussions on what the identity card should contain are more than a decade old, as there has been a kind of disputed link between the ID card and the health insurance card all the time. And this problem is now satisfactorily solved; and it is surprising that the government comes to Parliament with the law just before the present, although it was written at the time of its performance a year ago. At the same time, we note in the letter of Marjan Šarc that the issue will, of course, only be settled in half when this law is confirmed. It is true that the new ID card will simplify e-business, but only after the adoption of the Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services. A good year ago, we sent it from the Ministry of Public Administration to public hearings, and this government has not yet brought it to Parliament, although the ID card and the regulatory regulation of e-Identity are both substantively linked and interdependent, so that such legislation should normally be tabled simultaneously. Thus, the National Assembly accepts the basis for issuing a new ID card; however, how e-business will be regulated at national level and throughout the European Union's internal market is not known because the law is not yet in place; legal certainty is of course crucial. As with strict regulation of the management of biometric data, as pointed out in the Office of the Information Commissioner, is crucial. In addition, we note from the Marjan Šarca List that the identity card for a citizen from the age of 12 will contain elements that will enable electronic identification for access to electronic services and electronic signature; this age seems too low to us from a legal point of view. With some will and awareness of how important it is in the context of the epidemic for citizens to make access to electronic commerce as much as possible, a new ID card and electronic identity could be regulated by law last year and new ID cards issued this year, of course. So much hasty to do for this time is to regulate this government; where it could go quickly and effectively to the citizens and the economy, it is needlessly late. However, since we are aware of the urgency of the early regulation of this area, we will not oppose the Act in the List of Marjan Šarca, despite some of the above comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u52	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The identity card is one of the official identification documents by which individuals or holders of this ID card show identity and citizenship. In fact, we have been using our ID card for years as a travel document. With it we travel across the countries of the European Union, to all Member States of the European Economic Area, Switzerland, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia and Albania. The possibility of passing a ID card in those countries is certainly also the reason that it is one of the more widely distributed documents, and it is also clear that the number of identity cards holders is also increasing among younger persons under 18 years of age. As the ID card is also a travel document, the proposed amendments will also address the issue of identity cards. In the event that a person is prohibited from crossing the national border, the issuing of a identity card by banning the crossing of the national border will be possible, and other reasonable grounds for refusing the issuance of the document and suspending the document shall be extended. However, the maximum change relates to the introduction of a biometric identity card. The amendment of the law aligns the matter with the Regulation of the European Union relating to the issue of a personal card and the capture of biometric data of the holder and fingerprints and the recording of the storage medium of the identity card form. They are also coordinated with the eIDAS Regulation, which provides frameworks to achieve adequate levels of security and reliability of electronic identification and trust services and remove key obstacles to cross-border use. Due to these disseminations of the use of identity cards by including qualified e-signature certificates, a wide range of citizens will be allowed to create electronic signatures equivalent to those of their own hands. The news to be mentioned also applies to our younger fellow citizens. Personal identity cards for children at the age of 12 will contain a minimum biometric record and will also be fingerprinted upon application for a identity card. However, the solutions proposed are intended to provide greater legal certainty, making it easier to verify that the identity card submitted by an individual is actually valid. The technological progress of IT technology, which in many areas allows for many innovations and improvements, cannot be reversed. However, we must insist that a security mechanism be set up at the same time, which will, as far as possible, prevent the misuse of information that is or will remain on one such memory card as the station's identity card and prevent the abuse of the identity of the individual. Biometric ID cards will be issued for all citizens, which means that an individual will not be able to choose between or without a personal card with or without a memory medium. However, for citizens, one of the more important information is that the current non-biometric identity card is valid until its validity. This also applies to individuals holding a permanent identity card. If they so wish, they will be able to exchange a non-biometric ID card for a new biometric, which will also include a qualified electronic signature. We will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The amendment transposes the 2019 EU Regulation into the Slovenian legal order, which imposes up to 2 Member States. 8. 2021 harmonisation of legislation by allowing the issue of biometric identity cards. The bill sets out the issue of a ID card on a form containing a memory medium or chip on which the facial image and two fingerprints are stored as biometric data. As you know, biometric passports have been issued in Slovenia since 2006, so the main solutions to the bill follow the existing solutions. Slovenia has issued a ID card on unchanged forms since 1998, i.e. 23 years. The valid identity card has more than 800,000 citizens, which means that the most used personal document is in the country, so we welcome more than the welcome news that will make it easier for us to do daily tasks, such as postage and postal numbers, which will increase the use of the ID card also for legal traffic, and the indication of the two-point code of the country of birth and the place of birth, which will make it easier for us to take over the various postal shipments where this information is to be provided. As a welcome novelty in the SMC Group, we also welcome the possibility of expanding the range of online eGovernment services or administrative procedures via the Internet when issuing identity cards. The note provides that the eGovernment portal will be able to make a note of the wrongness of the ID card, the eGovernment portal will also allow anyone to verify that the identity card with which one proves is actually valid. And we could list it. A key solution to this bill is the introduction of a so-called electronic identity card. It is therefore commendable that both the previous and this government have decided to introduce the biometric identity cards required of us by the European Union. This will take advantage of the opportunity to finally introduce an electronic identity card in Slovenia, which will enable citizens to operate electronically in a safe and efficient way and will accelerate digitisation. Each citizen will obtain a identity card with extended content, which means that it will contain a means of electronic identification of high and low levels of reliability or chip. The chip will contain an electronic identity and a qualified electronic signature certificate. It will provide electronic identification for access to public sector e-services after notification, as well as cross-border transactions throughout the European Union's internal market, as well as the possibility of electronic signing of e-documents. Its issuance will also have to be subject to the above-mentioned Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services, since it only defines the issue of electronic identity by the State on one or more electronic identification means. The law was intersectorally coordinated and can be adopted in the Government and transmitted to the National Assembly in a short time. In addition, an electronic identification tool for a low level of reliability will be mentioned on the identity card, which has been added after coordination with the Health Insurance Office. This element will also allow the use of an electronic ID card as a substitute for a health insurance card if the user so wishes. As in 2008, this electronic service will be enabled optionally. As has already been said, in the SMC Group we support and welcome the last solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u56	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on ID Card, technically, follows compliance with the acquis of the European Union, as the proposed law will transpose the regulation of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support the development of digitisation and progress, especially the ability to unify or debirocratise and the non-exhaustive capabilities brought by the new ID card with the memory medium, where the image and fingerprints of the citizen are stored as biometric data. With the development of digitisation, we must also follow the development of security conservation, so we welcome the establishment by the Republic of Slovenia of a national electronic means of identification of a high level of confidence allowing us to recognise cross-borderly, in accordance with the eIDAS Regulation, for which development and enforcement in the European Parliament is also supported by the European Ambassador of New Slovenia, Ljudmila Novak. In the spirit of unifying, reducing various media and certificates in New Slovenia, we welcome that the issued ID card will provide each citizen with an electronic identity after 12 years of age, where an embedded memory medium can contain data for electronic identification as well as a qualified certificate for electronic signature. As a result, by aligning the regulation with the Slovenian acquis, we introduce a new age limit for citizens and citizens at the age of 12 for fingerprinting. The law below includes further amendments to the law that further prevent the misuse of the ID card, so in Christian Democrats we support any upgrade to greater security, in which case the upgrade of the register of issued identity cards with the photo verification system attached to the application is supported by a photo of an investor already in existence in the records of issued identification documents. However, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would like to point out that there is already an information solution on the eGovernment portal to verify that the identity card, according to its serial number, may have been stolen, missing, lost or invalidated for other reasons before the expiry date. In today's Personal Card Act, we also observe restrictions on the issuing of a ID card, or even upon the temporary abolition of the identity card, but only in order to protect public order, ensure the smooth progress of the criminal procedure or the defence of the State. These limits refer to five key moments. In the future, the identity card will become an even more important legal tool not only in public space or life, but even more in the digital world, so we will have to be even more aware of the responsibilities and, most importantly, the destruction for security reasons after the expiry or the change of data on the identity card. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the exceptions, so we support the previous provisions, since the possibility of using non-biometric identity cards is allowed until the expiry of their validity, which is also applicable to identity cards with a sustainable validity issued to individuals after the age of 70. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are committed to digitisation in our political programme and support digital development and the development of digital security. Since we believe that a new ID card with a memory medium will bring the possibility of additional debirocratisation, of merging several plastic cards into one common one, in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the application of residence within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior to Mr Frantz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The last law, which was tabled in the Slovenian Parliament, was adopted in 2017, which also followed in order to prevent fictitious applications. However, the law adopted in 2017 did not prevent abuses occurring in administrative proceedings concerning the application of temporary or permanent residence. That is why the government has decided to end this, end the abuse, abuse of registration and registration activities in administrative units. However, I would like to point out that last year's administrative units have made more than 350 thousand changes in their applications and cancellations. In the last year, administrative units carried out more than a thousand 526 procedures to verify the authenticity of applications, where some have applied fictitiously, and these procedures have been initiated. At this point, there are 5,000 758 residence procedures. The essence of the law is to prevent a fictitious application, so we have ensured by the legal provisions that it will no longer be possible to apply anywhere in administrative units, but only on a local unit. Locally competent because administrative units in the past have found that someone who wanted to register a temporary or permanent residence in the area such as Slovenske Bistrica was not satisfied there or did not do so simply went to the administrative unit in Koper, where he was temporarily or permanently registered in Slovenska Bistrica. Since officials of the administrative unit in Cyprus or other administrative units do not know some situation, we have decided that it is imperative to reintroduce local authority, which does not mean that you can no longer apply to that administrative unit by e-mail. This remains, but only to those where you are locally competent. In order not to do so again, we also introduce a so-called verification of procedures by official duty, where an official in the administrative unit has to verify certain data. We're introducing a short-term administrative verification procedure. If the administrative unit in force today initiates a verification procedure, such verification shall take at least a year or up to two years before the witness is invited before the mail is received and so on. Here, however, I can argue that we are in some way introducing the opposite burden of proof, where the party must prove that it has the conditions for a person to report; or a person to prove that he is entitled to apply at a given address. Surface standards are being introduced. It's impossible for 50 people to be reported in one apartment house. Surface standards to be laid down by an internal act of the Minister of Interior and by an internal act of the Minister of Environment and Space. Surface standards are urgently needed, so with the enforcement of this law, an administrative officer will have the opportunity and will have to check surface standards through Gurs. Gurs in some ways ensures that more than 80% of surface standards are entered into electronic computer devices. And today some administrative units are checking some activities concerning Gurs and surface standards, not all of them. This law allows us to consistently prevent the abuse of registration and registration services and, consequently, certain social transfers. As a result, certain social transfers are linked under the Law on Registration and Registration, on permanent residence, or on temporary residence. We also introduce that foreigners at the physical address can report through the Police for 3 to 90 days. Thus it is also ensured that an electronic system is established to control the residence of foreigners in Slovenia in such a way as to enable a natural person to report a foreigner staying at his address for up to 90 days. However, with regard to the amendments tabled, I will later be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 20th meeting, on 4 February 2021, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Registration of Residences as a work force. Mr Franz Kangler, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, stressed that the law eliminates some of the possibilities that existed in the current legislation regarding fictitious residence registrations, thus preventing abuses. He stressed that a surface standard would now be introduced, which was an important change that would further close the room for any manipulation or abuse. He also stressed the provisions on the temporary application of foreign residence and local jurisdiction in the application of residence on the grounds that where the application is made, they should also know the situation on the ground and then also exercise appropriate control, which is therefore reasonable, possible and in view of the actual situation in the country. There was a lot of talk in the debate about the additional data that could be collected by this legislation, particularly with regard to nationality. You know that the census was originally done in the field up to a decade ago, and in recent years only from records and data, such as religious denominations. The mother tongue is not now being collected and collected until 2016 on a voluntary basis in the application, as would be the possibility of introduction here. And in this direction, the SNS Group has proposed appropriate amendments. In addition, some other amendments were tabled by the coalition. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4, 20, 29 and 30 of the SDS, SMC, NSI, and their amendments, which were based on the voluntary collection of the data referred to above, on Articles 5 and 10. However, the original amendments or amendments of the SNS Group to Articles 5 and 10 were no longer voted on as they became irrelevant due to the amendments already adopted by the Committee. Finally, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill, together with the amendments adopted, and adopted them by 10 votes in favour and 1 against.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u61	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The institution of residence registration is being abused a lot. Not surprisingly, there are a lot of rights at the address of residence, so in practice it happens that individuals apply for residence on addresses where they do not actually reside. On this basis, they are entitled primarily to different forms of social transfers, which they would not otherwise belong to. Amendments and additions to the law address the problem of abuse that occurs in the area of applications and residence cancellations, either permanent or temporary. It is the fictitious residence of individuals on addresses not intended for residential use and on addresses where the size of the useful surface does not clearly allow for the actual residence of more people. We are also reminded of the need to regulate these matters by events that took place in the area of administrative units Maribor and Krško. More than 100 people were also reported at one address. Infringements, and even in the commission of criminal offences, have also been freely facilitated by officials. The number of actual residence procedures is increasing from year to year. However, this is nothing more than statistical information, for control is ineffective and, above all, still insufficient. According to the new report, an official in the administrative unit will be required to verify certain information relating to the system of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. All those who do not yet have regulated data or spatial property records and will wish to register residence on such property will have to do so within a certain period of time. In the Desus Group, we view as the most important reintroduction of the local jurisdiction of the application of residence and the provision that registration will be possible only in residential properties. It is expected that employees in administrative units know their areas better than they do elsewhere in Slovenia, so with much greater reliability they can find that the facility in which they wish to apply is not a residential property; and thus prevent the intended abuse. The bill also extends a set of evidence or legal grounds on the right to reside on the basis of an applicant’s address. As evidence that an individual has the right to reside on the title, the declaration of ownership or co-ownership, rental or rental contract, the consent of the owner, one co-owner or landlord shall at present be taken into account. In addition, as evidence of the right to reside, the contract on the service of the apartment, the contract of subsistence and the proof of building rights are also defined as proof of the right to reside. The official person of the administrative unit shall be required in the official records to verify the ownership or co-ownership data, unless the applicant submits it himself. The novelty also lays down a new condition for applying for permanent residence relating to surface standards. The purpose of the proposal is to prevent fictitious entries at the addresses of buildings that do not actually allow residence. We need slightly clearer criteria as to how this area is determined, and more importantly, how to determine in the process that a given area is not sufficient. The Regulation establishing minimum standards for the accommodation of foreigners who are employed or working in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted under the Employment and Labour Act, is applicable. Article 2 of this Regulation specifies the minimum surface area according to the number of persons staying in a specified facility, as well as other minimum living and hygiene standards. We believe that the meaningful application of this or the adoption of a similar rule would solve a number of dilemmas. Members of the Desus Group are aware that the institution of residence registration is too often misused and that the regulation of this area is essential, so we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u64	In the Slovenian National Party, we are very pleased that we have finally come to the table with a difficult proposal for a law that will deal with a number of case-by-case cases of fictitious reporting and abuse. There are few amendments and additions, but the latter are of the utmost importance that a legal order is already being made in this country. Underlining the urgent need to address the pressing current problem of applying for titles not intended for residential use, or addresses where the size of the usable area does not allow for the actual residence of a large number of individuals. In the text of the novel, foreigners, newborns, the elderly are involved, but we know who is doing the most in our country. These are no doubt foreigners from the former South. We welcome the solution in the Slovenian National Party to reintroduce local competence. The fact is that the administrative units, the local officials, are best aware of the situation in the local environment, so we believe that it will certainly reduce the possibility of a fictitious application or the execution of an application in another administrative unit if an individual in one unit fails. The evidence is very relevant and the bill is therefore expanding the set of evidence. We must also not overlook the new seventh paragraph, which provides that, when applying for permanent or temporary residence, the administrative unit shall, with a view to examining the data of the register of the population, verify the data. It is available with data on the actual use of the building, the useful area intended for residential use or accommodation, and the number of persons registered at the address to which the permanent or temporary residence is registered. Such a linkage of records will not lead to confusion and dilemma. There must no longer be cases of abuse that have occurred in the past, which we have been able to read and hear about in the media. One very significant case was in Posavje, in Krske, where I come from, where 265 foreigners were registered for permanent and temporary residence. The fictitious applications of residences in Slovenia serve as a stepping stone for work either in Slovenia or in the European Union, as well as numerous social transfers used by their family members. It is also almost proven that workers from third countries were imported to Slovenia just before the local elections, so that they could participate and change the electoral will of Slovenian citizens and citizens. It is also a shame that in kindergartens, schools require the translation of their teacher into Albanian, which is nonsense in our cultural environment. Another problem with us is the Roma who are registered at the headquarters of the congregation, and problems arise when they are served or taken over by mail. At the time of notification, it is necessary to provide real data, such as established practice in a number of areas, which is the responsibility of the landlord, because he can also carry out fictitious applications. It is also more than welcome to supplement Article 45 of the criminal provision, where the individual for the offence is fined from 200 to 600 euros and the landlord of thousands of 500 to 4 thousand euros. The police in practice find that abuse occurs because the current law allows a foreigner to apply at a specific address without any knowledge, consent of the owner or co-owner of the property. It is therefore appropriate that a foreigner who does not have a residence permit certify a residence permit or long-stay visa, a competent police station register the owner or a co-owner of the property. Finally, in the Slovenian National Party, we have also tabled two amendments to the Home Committee, because it seems very important to us, because we have always stressed that, in addition to the other data provided by the individual, nationality, religion and mother tongue are also relevant, because an individual can be identified if he wants to. If you want to, it's not mandatory. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government has submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to amend the Law on Registration of Residence. Changes in this area are indeed necessary, as there are many rights linked to the title of residence. In practice, individuals are often abused by the right to apply for residence and the benefits associated with it. This is how residents are reported on addresses where they are not actually staying at all. The reasons for doing so are different. A very common reason is to obtain a work permit. In practice, however, it is easy for foreigners to work with our employers for a short period of time. By allowing them to work throughout the European Union, they will only use our employers to go to other European countries where a better payment is made for similar work. Many residence applications are also due to the acquisition of social transfers mainly by the family members of a foreigner who already has a registered residence with us. At the time of the local elections, however, it also happened that foreigners temporarily applied to us just so that they could go to the polls; for a reason of course. In fact, there is considerable evidence that there was only one media case when more than 500 people were reported in the apartment house in Šentil. The aim of the amendment of the law is thus to prevent fictitious registrations of residences. The key solutions provided by law are to amend the authentication procedure by allowing immediate rejection by employees in administrative units, if the building is not intended for housing, if the building does not meet surface standards or if proof of the right of residence is not provided at this address. In the past, everything has happened too often that individuals have been reported to the titles of companies, which will no longer be possible by amending legislation. A key solution that will prevent an unlimited number of individuals from applying at one address will certainly be the introduction of surface standards that will determine the permissible number of individuals registered at the size of the usable area of the apartment. At the time of the notification, the staff of the administrative unit will have to verify in the official records the actual use of the building and the usable area of the building intended for residential use or accommodation and the number of persons registered at this address. At the same time, the local authority to apply for permanent or temporary residence shall be reintroduced, as well as the setting of a service address. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the amendments to the Law on Registration of Residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respected and respected! When we are talking about amendments to the Residence Registration Act, of course, we are talking about how to prevent fictitious applications and, of course, abuses in this regard. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we ran the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration during the previous government. Together with the heads of administrative units, the ministries sought solutions in this regard. And at the end of 2019, a government report with recommendations, which are also partly found in the amendments to the law that are before us today. Intervention into marriage is certainly necessary, as the current regime, while on paper, offers leverage to prevent false registrations of residences and, in practice, all of this is becoming uncontrollable. Under the beach, critics are most often found employees in administrative units, if they are not doing their job. At times, they may be justified, but in fact, because of the extreme rigidity of legislation, they often have their hands tied together. It is true that they have the possibility of simply checking how many people are registered on an individual address and do so. The applications already registered can be verified, but in the long-term administrative procedures for determining permanent or temporary residence, the official shall conduct individual hearings if, of course, he can hear them, if they come forward at all, look for witnesses, if they want to speak, for a variety of evidence, which, of course, lasts, and lasts. And many times such a check is in the end without an epilogue. And if he can't figure out where the individual is, the official can cancel his application with a decision. In particular, when registering foreigners, fictitious applications are common, especially when it comes to drivers in international traffic or posted foreign workers who regulate their application on addresses where they do not actually reside. Before officials achieve anything in their actual state-of-the-art procedures, such a person is already abroad. The most important lever, according to the List of Marjan Šarc, and we give it to the official, is to simplify the process of determining the reality of the application. This is a significant difference compared to the current arrangement. The immediate issue of a refusal decision in cases where the address to which an individual wishes to apply does not have housing or the useful area in relation to the applications already made is not appropriate is one of the most important proposals, and this has also been created by the chiefs of administrative units when we were looking for solutions. They also proposed the introduction of surface standards, thus limiting the number of persons reported on a given surface. According to the administrative units, they are now pleased that the proposals they have been alerted to and proposed as solutions have also been heard. In the past, local jurisdiction in the registration of residence has been erased precisely because of the desire to make the services of the State as accessible as possible. At the time of the marked increase in procedures, this is an advantage. The more Ljubljana, Maribor, Ptuj and other major administrative units would be covered with roles if there were no possibility of dispersion throughout Slovenia. The reintroduction of local competence will put even greater pressure on these administrative units, resulting in the need for new jobs, of course, and work will need to be reorganised. Will this contribute to greater visibility of fictitious applications and to the cessation of the implementation of reports of different practices across administrative units? In the List of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the views on the title data for the application and the possibility of immediate refusal of the application are in fact the greatest guarantee for the prevention of fictitious applications, as they legally introduce a uniform practice for all administrative units. In fact, it is far more effective than local jurisdiction. If we added the mandatory application of the lease to the Financial Administration, this would be another step towards preventing fictitious applications. Whether the reintroduction of local jurisdiction will be an added value; or whether, on the other hand, it will make it more difficult for all our citizens who do not abuse, who do not report themselves fictitiously, but do so out of necessity and desire for an orderly life.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u70	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The problem of fictitious residence registrations was detected years ago, and the National Assembly adopted a new law on residence registration in 2016 with a goal and a desire to reduce the possibility of fictitious residence registrations with many systemic improvements; however, this has not happened. In addition to these remaining problems, new ones have, of course, emerged, which also concern the Roma community, concerning the acceptance of shipments relating to the registration of residence in the municipality where they live, or earlier at the centres for social work. The trend of fictitious applications has not diminished as expected. We can say that in particular in individual local communities the registration of false residences is becoming a serious problem. Many rights are linked to the title of the residence, so in practice it happens that individuals abuse the institution of residence registration by applying to an address where they do not actually live and benefit from rights that they do not otherwise belong to. The problem of fictitious residence registrations of a large number of persons at the same address also arises with foreigners, drivers in international traffic who are employed by Slovenian employers and sent to work abroad. This is related to the acquisition of an A1 form of health insurance, residence permits and family reunification. The years of implementation of the law have shown that there are still many gaps in the law itself as well as in the technical implementation of the law itself. The problem is acute and is linked to a number of resources, so an interdepartmental group has been set up to examine the problem and prepare measures to prevent the registration of fictitious residences of individuals and their family members and thus to allocate financial social assistance and the remaining transfers to individuals and households; to explore the possibility of bridging so-called fictitious entries in educational institutions; to examine the tightening conditions for employment of foreign labour in Slovenia and to prepare proposals for measures to regulate the field of agency work. On this basis, the Interdepartmental Group has proposed baselines for changes and additions in the direction of reintroduction of local jurisdiction for the application of residence. It has been noted that employees in the administrative unit, because of their knowledge of the area where they work, can better recognise the possibility of a fictitious application. The introduction of surface standards for the number of applications to the size of the usable area of the building intended to stay, or the usable area of the apartment in the multi-housing building, is therefore a useful area of a certain part of the building. Simplification of the procedures for verifying the authenticity of the application, which will allow the immediate issue of the decision of refusal without a finding only on the basis of the fact that the address to which the individual wishes to apply does not have housing or its useful area, according to the number of applications already made, is not appropriate. Your Honor! The adoption of the amendment to Articles 5 and 10 of the amendment of the Law, which provides that the person who declares permanent residence shall state the religion, nationality, mother tongue, the holder of the household and so on shall constitute a serious intervention in sensitive personal data. Of course, the information officer also pointed to this. If such a doctrine were to remain in law, we are confident that this will be decided by the Constitutional Court. That is why the Social Democrats will support both the SMC and NSI amendments. And if I finish. The application of residence is primarily an individual’s interest, as it is a fundamental condition for the exercise of a number of individual rights. However, accurate and up-to-date records are also of public interest, especially when it is decided on the eligibility of those rights, which are, of course, conditioned by registered residence. Social Democrats will not oppose the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u72	A completely new Act on Registration of Residence was adopted in 2016 under the mandate of the SMC. Until that year, we had in fact a law on the registration of citizens from the period of the former country. The application of residence is a prerequisite for the exercise of individual civil and other social rights, for example, for the permanent residence of an active and passive electoral right, for social protection rights such as child allowances, protective allowances and so on, and for family rights. That is why we also face abuses or fictitious reports of foreigners in the application of residences; although the law has also exacerbated actual residence procedures in 2016 and introduced certain safeguards to prevent fictitious applications. That the current legislation does not contain strong enough safeguards to deal with these abuses, the media called and reported a few months ago when the issue of fictitious applications was highlighted mainly in the Maribor administrative unit area. During the internal audit of residence registrations, the Maribor Administrative Unit then found the suspicion of fictitious applications at 27 addresses and in a thousand 47 cases began to determine the situation. Thus, in an apartment of 98 square feet [98 sq m], 157 people reported and 97 square feet [97 sq m] of people in another apartment. The Chief of Management acknowledged that officials had cancelled their residence procedures while at the same time pointing out the systemic shortcomings of the solutions to prevent them. According to the above orders, the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik analysed the issue of fictitious applications on the most exposed administrative units and it turned out that the problem was not local, limited to Maribor, but all-Slovenian. At the same address in Krška, for example, there were 265 foreigners registered. In addition to Krske's problems, there is also a bird administrative unit and administrative unit Velenje, Žalec, Škofja Loka, Izola, Laško, Celje, Logatec, Koper and Kranj. Last year, the Kranj municipality sent an initiative to the Government and the National Assembly to amend the legislation. The initiative is a collection of proposals from institutions, namely the Municipality of Kranj, the Employment Institute, the Administrative Units of Kranj, the Centre for Social Work of Gorenjska, the Financial Administration and the Police Administration of Kranj. Although the Government had already set up an Inter-Resort Working Group in 2019 to address this issue, it prepared a report in January 2020 setting out the basis for these solutions, which are now contained in this proposal. The amendment of the law prevents the abuse of applications for permanent and temporary residence to titles not intended for residential use or accommodation where the size of the useful surface does not allow for the actual residence of a large number of individuals. The local authority of the application shall be reintroduced, the duty of the official to verify the data in the records of the Geodetic Authority, the duty of the citizens to regulate the unregulated data and the possibility of deciding administrative units in the reduced procedure. Other legal corrections are also introduced that address the shortcomings of the law in force and relate to the application of children's residence, the dissemination of evidence of the right to register and the coordination of provisions with the Foreigners Act. In the SMC, we support the bill because it is not only a problem of fictitious applications but is linked, as already mentioned, to the abuse of social transfers, non-taxation, exploitation of labour and, last but not least, to the criminal acts of individual officials who have fictitiously applied to the addresses of foreign bribes, or to legal persons and their authorities or owners who have regulated applications against payment for foreigners on their addresses or on the addresses of rented facilities. The following shall apply. The proposed regulation foresees that surface standards for the registration of residence are laid down by a sub-law, with particular attention being paid to finding a solution that will not affect socially disadvantaged people who actually live on small areas. We must certainly allow these people to prove that they are actually living on small areas because of socio-economic conditions. Together with New Slovenia, we tabled two amendments, which reverse the data on the collection of religious affiliation, nationality and mother tongue, and then explain the details in the discussion. As we say, we will support these two amendments as well as the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u74	Your Honor, thank you. The applicant mentions the provision of additional measures between the objectives of the Law on Registration of Residence, which will contribute to the reduction of the number of fictitious applications, i.e. the application of permanent or temporary residences of individuals on addresses where they do not actually reside. This does not mean that the fictitious registration of residences is not already being pursued and checked if the persons registered are at the registered address. On the contrary, after witnessing to the supervised, the police are quite active, so that their work is sometimes already on the verge of a legitimate one. So we got information that the police are strictly and actively reviewing and checking everywhere where someone just slept temporarily. After witnessing activists helping foreigners to integrate into our society, the police, without warrants and without explanation, knocked on the door and questioned who was living with you, how you met, whom you met, and what organizations you were working with. In some cases, their neighbors also rang. Clearly, it was not only a hunt for foreigners, but also a description of activists who practice solidarity and actually play the role that the country should play. Rejected asylum seekers, undocumented and foreigners in deportation proceedings are literally thrown into the street by long-term detentions at the Aliens Centre, but we are not surprised by this practice. This country, our country, has already many elements of the police state since 13 March 2020. Apparently, after the current regime, the police have sufficient powers, but if they do not have them and will only gain them by amending the law, then we already have a big problem because the police have become a state in the country. Another major disadvantage of the current regime is also mobile foreign workers, especially drivers of trucks of Slovenian companies. After this time, these workers cannot register their residence because they do not actually stay on the same temporary residence. Because of the nature of their work they move around different places in Slovenia, when they are in Slovenia at all, because companies send them on international trips. Since they cannot register a temporary residence, they are deprived of social rights in the event of unemployment, the banks do not want to give them credits, they cannot register cars in the Republic of Slovenia and could still list the kind of inconvenience that this decision of the Slovenian State causes. Perhaps we should resolve the status of mobile workers in another law, but the fact is that the proposed novels only make their situation worse. On behalf of the idea that you are equal before the law, both those who can work for Slovenian companies cannot apply for residence, but those who, due to the ownership of many immovables, can choose where the residence applications will be, for example in Kranska Gora, to avoid non-life government decisions. On the parental committee, however, a constitutionally contested decision has already been taken by the right in such a controversial proposal, since certain sensitive personal data – nationality, religion and mother tongues – should also be disclosed after the new application of residence. At the same time, there is still a rather unnecessary personal information about where the person lived before. The collection of such data, which is not at all clear what they should be collected for, is not only a serious intervention in the privacy of individuals, but also carries the risk of discrimination against individuals on the basis of these data, i.e. religion, nationality and mother tongue. By means of such a mechanism, however, we would indeed establish a multicast state between citizens and foreigners themselves. New evidence of where this government is taking this country — a depraved, limited, nationalistic state. We have a law before us that, according to the ruling clicks, is a step towards a more successful prevention of the abuse of rights. This word relationship “abuse of justice” has been repeated by the parrots for the entire term. The unemployed abuse rights, migrants abuse rights, self-employed mothers abuse rights, self-employed abuse rights. Right with a big start. In the name of justice, this law will create new injustices, as we have illustrated in these few cases. In Levika we will vote against the creation of new injustices and the increase of repression.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a new Law on Registration of Residence, proposed by the Government, addresses in particular the current problem of so-called fictitious residence applications. Following inspections on certain administrative units, we were informed that several addresses also included several hundred permanent or temporary foreigners who did not actually live at these addresses. Today's law will also prevent the abuse of social transfers, since many who have been fictitiously registered in or in these facilities have benefited from social transfers, even though they have not actually lived in these facilities. It is unacceptable to take any advantage of the measures and mechanisms of the Slovenian social state and the Slovenian health system through possible fictitious applications of residence. We welcome the possibility of a new residence registration only in residential facilities, but not in premises that are not suitable for human residence. A surface standard is introduced for the number of applications to the size of the usable area of the apartment or apartment. At the time of the notification, the administrative unit in the official records will have to verify the destination of the facility, the usable area of the facility and the number of persons registered in the address. Surface standards will be laid down in a sub-law. In New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the reintroduction of local jurisdiction in the application of both permanent and temporary residences, since we believe that local officials are the ones who know the situation best in their environment and will take the best account of local circumstances. This means that registration of residence will no longer be possible anywhere in Slovenia, but it will have to be arranged on the competent administrative unit. One of the more common abuses in the application of residence is that when a person fails to register residence in one administrative unit, he can go to another administrative unit to the other end of Slovenia and make a residence application there. The bill also contains some amendments and additions that address inconsistencies and shortcomings in the implementation of the current law in practice, including better regulation of the application procedure for the child's residence. The application of permanent residence for individuals residing in the homes of older citizens exercising institutional protection is also better regulated in a way that ensures a fair distribution of the cost of co-financing of municipalities. This is in a way that will cover, not only the municipality where the location of the accommodation is located, but the municipality of last residence. Since the proposed amendment to the Residence Registration Act solves the extremely pressing issue of fictitious residence applications, we will support NSI Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u78	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Residence Registration Act was primarily created in response to the issue of fictitious residence registrations. In the course of the inspections, it was found that more than 100 people were reported at certain addresses, but that they did not actually live there. Moreover, the fictitious application of foreigners to temporary residence for some is also a profitable but illegal business. The abuse of social transfers is also closely linked to this problem. The Interdepartmental Working Group has also drawn up baselines for amendments to the Residence Registration Act. The working group was set up to examine the issue of fictitious residence applications. One of the changes is the reintroduction of local jurisdiction to register residence. As a result, the application of residence will not be possible anywhere in Slovenia, as has been the case so far, but the procedure will have to be carried out on the competent administrative unit. Officials in the administrative unit are familiar with the area of their administrative unit, so the possibility of fictitious reporting by a larger number of individuals will be reduced. Now, in practice, if an individual has failed on one administrative unit, he has simply tried luck on the other. The Novela also introduces surface standards for the number of persons reported to the size of the usable area of the apartment. This will check what the actual usable surface of the building is like when applying to administrative units. These data will be transferred to the Register of Permanent Populations from the records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Surface standards will be established by means of a sub-legislative act, and the SAB reminds us that it will be necessary to be careful when determining them, as some actually live on small areas. The majority of these are socially disadvantaged persons, so it will be necessary to ensure that their situation is not further threatened. Procedures for verifying the authenticity of the application shall also be reduced. Thus, administrative units can be much more effective in preventing and detecting abuses. The novelty also contains some other solutions that address the shortcomings detected in practice. Some refer to applications for children’s residences and some to applications for foreign residences. The law also harmonizes with the Family Code. In the SAB Group, we consider the proposed solutions to be good, but we want them to also bring effective results and prevent abuses in practice. In the past, some activities to prevent fictitious applications have already been carried out. Among other things, an information solution was installed in the Register of Permanent Populations in 2013 to review the number of persons or permanent and temporary residence applications at a specific address. Obviously, however, such a system still does not work in practice and further legal changes are needed. Supplements to the law that we disagree with in the SAB were adopted at the meeting of the parent committee. Thus, at the time of the application of a permanent residence and at the time of the notification or modification of a permanent address abroad, the individual should, inter alia, indicate nationality, religion and mother tongue. That the collection of these data was controversial, the information officer also warned. In doing so, it stated that the proposed amendments did not give rise to what objectives were to be pursued by the collection of these data, nor was the need for collection justified. The Slovenian Constitution also stipulates that no one is obliged to define his or her religious or other beliefs. The amendments tabled to this provision are welcomed in the SAB. If these supplements are eliminated today, we will support the proposal of the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the SMC and NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. That's why we're going to start the application procedure. First, he asked Secretary of State Franz Kangler to speak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear comrades! The Government does not accept or support the amendment tabled by the Left Party. The Government is also surprised that the SMC and Nova Slovenija have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The government has drafted an amendment to Article 5, which it has not yet addressed, has drafted and has been coordinated among the presidents of the coalition parties, and we are therefore even more surprised that the SMC and NSI have tabled their amendment and that the SMC Group leader has not received and has not supported the amendment prepared by the Government. Indeed, in the amendment we have prepared for Article 5, nationality, religion and mother tongue are not mandatory data that a staff member of the administrative unit would accept, nor are they contrary to the Constitution. Since 2001, Mrs Slug, you can laugh, but I say what our professional services say and what has happened in the past. [[…]] We've had our nationality in our previous marriage since 24. 2. 2001 to 13. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Constitution has not changed at this time in this part. The Constitution has not changed at this time in this part. No one questioned the fact that the nationality that was voluntarily requested by the staff member of the administrative unit had also been recorded on the basis of a voluntary basis by the person concerned who was making the application. For 15 years, no one claimed that the law in this part was unconstitutional. Today, we have some of the parliamentary groups that say that this is unconstitutional. We're saying it's not. If there is political will, if there is a majority in the National Assembly, such a law will be passed. The Left Party has also tabled an amendment to Article 5, which lists under point 3 of the place of birth, under point 5 of nationality, under point 6 of the legal status, under point 8 of the date of application, registration or amendment. Here I must warn you that this information and the log-in list already contain, so we do not change anything. However, I would like to stress with regard to all the other things that we have heard here today — I do not wish to comment or comment on the views of the groups of Members — that this law governs the application, dismissal and prevents any abuse. All manner of abuse. Today we are witnessing that, for example, wives from former ministers have their Albanian employees in stables, warehouses or elsewhere. If you adopt this law here today, they will also have to ensure that those workers who work with horses who work physically in construction work anywhere, including drivers, will no longer be registered in warehouses, that they will no longer sleep in irregular spaces, and that the employer or those who offer them an apartment will no longer abuse them in this way. And at least they'll be worthy of human dignity like everyone else. That is why this government has proposed this law. That's what we're worried about. That's enough in the past. I am surprised at the position of Levice, which opposes this because we just want to eliminate the fact that no one will abuse Slovenian workers or foreign workers in Slovenia in such a way that they will not provide conditions. Today, however, places that were not intended to be inhabited were being misused. And that must be prevented. It is true that the Interdepartmental Group, which has been established in the past, has submitted a report to the Government on the problem, and this has been the case in the past. I am now the leader of this Inter-Resort Group, and based on the data collected, we immediately reacted and prepared the law proposed by the Government to the National Assembly. That is why I appeal to you, honourable Members, I am sure that the law will be passed because you want to prevent further abuses that are taking place in our society, as regards the application of one service. As far as Article 5 is concerned and is also related to Article 10, I must stress in particular – we had a law that had been in force for 15 years. No one believed that this article, which had been in force for 15 years, was disputed because the nationality was a voluntary record that the person who came to the administrative unit wanted or did not want to provide. Even if this doctrine, adopted by the mother's working body, the amendment, and the content of the article remain, will not be contrary to the Constitution because it is voluntary. No one's forcing anyone on the board to offer it. 15 years, until 2016, it is possible, someone later deleted, and now they can again if they want to. Finally, I was warned in this national assembly that I spoke too quietly, today I have tried to make myself louder so that no one will misinterpret me, honourable Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to tell the Secretary of State that the counting of time did not start with this government because it is trying to minimize in every way, even where it is not necessary for the previous government to have done anything, even in this area. What you say was the epilogue of the work of this interdepartmental group was not a bare report, but they were concrete solutions and some of these concrete solutions are now in this law. It is not hard for me to admit that there are now some solutions in this law that are good and serve a purpose. That's what we've all been alerting you to. The founders of this law worked in some good faith a few years ago, and they probably could not have predicted that such abuses would occur in the application of residence. Well, after a few years, practice has shown what it has shown, things are sort of getting better. And that's right. But still a well-intentioned law such as this always hides some details that make fire in the roof and quarrel in the National Assembly. It is absolutely unnecessary to include these additional definitions in this amendment of the law. Why? It was fine, but that was really fine with the arrangements so far, and why should we bother people now with the definition of nationality, religion, mother tongue? Why? That's unnecessary. Why does the law governing the area of fictitious reporting, which is the problem, therefore need to push the public, the policy of such masquerades? It's totally unnecessary. What are we gonna get out of this? What's in it for us if we leave it in the marriage? If you don't mind, Vice-President, given that the Secretary of State is a little wider, I'd like to point out the pleonasm once again on this occasion. In fact, I'm lonely to point out this, perhaps because a lot of people don't know how things really run in administrative units, but it's basically one family that becomes and some truth that doesn't fit the actual situation. I continue to argue that, with all these good guardians introduced into the law, the most important thing is that – and this will be a uniform practice then, under the law for all administrative units – an official in the administrative unit is obliged to check all relevant data available to him there in that office immediately before the confirmation of the application of residence. Officials can already look into Gurs' records. I don't know, maybe not everyone's looking, but they can already. Even if someone comes to Koper to register residence in Maribor, the official has completely all the information in front of him, including the number of people already registered at that address. He's got everything. But what happens? What you say in general – that people wander from one to the other, to the third administrative unit and fail at five, and at six they succeed – is not true. That's not true. Because the law is so liberal, now, the current ones succeed at the first, because the official is obliged to make this application. At the same time, of course, the identification procedure has been introduced, but as we have found, the Secretary of State has said so, and this process can last a year, and there can never be two and an epilogue. So there's no overlap between one and the other administrative units because some administrative units fail because, as a rule, the law is such that at that point it succeeds and then procedures fail. The fact that they go to administrative units within Slovenia is simply because the pressure on these larger administrative units is enormous. Enormen. This is why we also had a sentence on the Ljubljana administrative unit, if you remember, and a working time until 10 p.m. because the law is simply too liberal and actually allowed these things. Abuses, though, are abuses, but they are actually legal abuses. That's the law. Now that we are really introducing these guards, I do not think that the introduction of local jurisdiction will have a significant impact on this. It will not have a significant impact because each official will have in front of him all the information and that moment the possibility of refusing the application. That's the most important thing. It is said that momentarily the possibility of refusing an application will not show anyone who would want to abuse it to go to another, third, fourth administrative unit, because it will come across exactly the same situation everywhere. The debirocratisation we like to talk about, and you, too, have placed it as one of the important tasks in the Government, was that, precisely because of the abolition of local authority in many areas, the country has come to the citizens and is much more friendly to them. I believe that the proper implementation of this law with proper supervision will not make a significant contribution to local competence, but will, on the other hand, constitute an even greater emphasis on larger administrative units, where you find that additional employment will be needed, which of course they will also be, because people will simply not be able to do all of this and will have to hire people further. What's important about this is that people who don't report in a fictitious way, who don't abuse anything, they just report out of residence. This at the time of the epidemic, as you know, is significantly more than ever. These are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will make life more difficult for them. If this is intention, in order to prevent these applications, then yes, of course, then this introduction of local jurisdiction is also obviously meaningful. But I just think that people have the right to apply, to sign off their residence as they wish. That way we're making things difficult for them, I don't think it's right. In my opinion, this is an anomaly in this novelty of the law. Since they will tell you, I have spoken with many heads of administrative units at this time, in smaller administrative units everyone welcomes this – yes, of course, because they have a significantly smaller caseload and do not get cases from outside – but on larger administrative units they hold on to their heads how they will manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Secretary of State, just an explanation. The Secretary of State or a representative of the Government has the right to apply and also to say, to comment on the views of the members of the groups, this is not prohibited. So we wouldn't argue with that right now. I would now kindly ask all the colleagues who are here to concentrate on the debate on Article 5 and the amendments tabled to Article 5. One amendment from the Left Group means the narrowing of the data set, and the SMC and NSI amendments mean that some of it changes in other paragraphs of the law and some of the paragraphs are added. So much so that we don't have to repeat a general story too much right now. The next one has a word, as I said, Secretary of State Franc Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the honourable Member of the Medveda. I am pleased that Mr Medved has also recognized his active work in the previous government and that today they will support the law in the List of Marjan Sarcas. The law is absolutely necessary. But I cannot agree with you when you claim that these abuses have not occurred that people have moved from one administrative unit to another. On the contrary, we were informed by the administrative units that this was happening. Someone came to the administrative unit in Maribor, I'm talking about a hypothetical case when the employee asked him for documents and a census, he turned around and left automatically because he saw that he couldn't make it. In the meantime, he may have obtained a fictitious contract of employment and went to the administrative unit in Koper, where no one had checked him anymore. Thus he avoided, for the first time, public authority, secondly, some regular procedure and there were abuses, major abuses. When you were talking about Gurs and that information. As of today, a staff member of the administrative unit has the option of pressing a certain button to check the data of Gurs, and with a new law, at the time when the data of the local residence registration authority will be opened, there will be no longer a need for additional activity of the staff member, but the Gursa data will be automatically printed and will probably also be alerted if there is a derogation. This is the advantage that we introduce in this way. We are confident that in this way, when a staff member of the administrative unit receives direct information from Gurs, without him asking him whether this is possible or not, he will be able to initiate the procedure, as you mentioned, following a short administrative procedure and after the reversal of the burden of proof and proof that he is right. Because you're talking about Gurs. There are also legal options, given that not all data are misled in Gurs as 100 percent credible, that an administrative unit will invite such a person to take this data to the Gurs office. Which means that we will simultaneously take care of the application-registration service and, on the other hand, that Gurs will also have credible data on the actual situation on the ground. The actual situation on the ground. Because if someone today has an object that is located in the Gurs business space, tomorrow he will want to report someone to this address temporarily or permanently, the staff member of the administrative unit will send the person concerned to arrange for the purpose of the facility at Gurs, as required by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will focus on Article 5 and on matters that tempt spirits, i.e. the definition of nationality, religion, mother tongue and the identification of the individual who is supposed to lead the household. We have heard in the debate of the Secretary of State and also earlier in the position of the SNS Members' Group that it is not a mandatory definition of nationality and religion, but an optional or optional one, but it is still necessary to say the following. Here you have defined nationality and religion as possible to define someone. However, if we read the law or this article further, we find that the mother tongue is a duty to be defined and that it is the responsibility of an individual to indicate whether he is running the household. So the situation here isn't very clear. If we look at the Constitution as the highest legal act, there is, of course, a constitutional dispute concerning these provisions, if we see that, in Article 14, the Constitution provides that everyone is guaranteed the same rights regardless of nationality, race and sex, and then speaks in Article 41 that no one is obliged to determine his or her religious or other beliefs. And then everyone has the right to freely express his or her nationality to his or her people, to cultivate and express his or her culture and to use his or her language and writing. It must be borne in mind that this is the right of that individual. And he's here, I'll say, some sense of the state that under the cover of these articles in the Constitution allows him to express himself freely. If we look at this law as a whole and find that the constitution defines it as the highest legal act in the articles I've listed, what would we do with it? This would make it possible for nationality and religion, if you say that you may be exercising constitutional rights, to demand or be able to allow those people who wish to do so only when they report permanent residence — what else? Therefore, if we read this Article 5 and 7 respectively, it speaks in the first paragraph, “an individual shall, when applying for permanent residence abroad”, and so on, “give the following information”. So it's only then that someone in your opinion can express nationality, religion, mother tongue and household. And here we go into the dispute that speaks of the Constitution as the highest legal act establishing the rights arising from the person himself – in this way they give me and give everyone the right – and of the fact that in a law such as the Law on Registration of Residence, there is an opportunity for someone to be defined or not. But only when you report a permanent residence. Therefore, Your Honor, this is a matter of dispute. If we consider this issue, let us ask ourselves the following questions. What, though, will be the state with this information on religion and nationality? What's it gonna be? So, I will define myself as Inuit, and the country will say at some point that we have 5% of Eskimo in Slovenia. Great. If it's not mandatory, I don't know what we're gonna do with a record like that if someone wants records. I don't know what the record would be like to say that 80% are undefined, I don't know, 20% are such and different nationalities. Yes, it is true, that nationality was probably defined by 2016, but you know, as far as I remember these things, it comes from the heritage of the former country. Last but not least, you all know that we were a country where the republics were and there were nationalities. At that time, people were determining what they were and who they were, and that was just what was left, and the contents of those records probably remained for as long as the matter hadn't changed. If someone then made a proposal for a constitutional review, the matter would probably go the other way. Therefore, I believe that the amendment drafted by the SMC and the NSI is appropriate. Of course, we'll support him, too, so that things get out here. For, once again, I stress that the Law on the Registration of Residence states that a person should decide on nationality and religion, of course, immediately raises the question of what in other procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Our sad new reality is, and it is no longer a matter of deceiving that we are living in a country that is becoming more and more police from day to day. We are a state with the longest-lasting curfew, the police are rapidly brutalizing, the repression of citizens is escalating. But it's not like that's enough, now [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u89	Wait a minute, Mrs. Sukich. Natasha Sukich, please identify yourself until the amendment. Please identify and discuss amendments and not other matters. I've warned others before. You're the same. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I'll give you a warning if you pass.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u90	Well. But as if all of this is not enough, it is now, at least, that's how you passionately wished for the Prime Minister and colleague Jelinčič, the blood brothers, when it comes to extreme nationalistic dreams, have become a state. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u91	Comrade Sukič, I give you a reminder, for you speak extremely insultingly to your colleagues and to others who are not here. The President of the Government is not a nationalist. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u92	I'd like the state to find out what kind of religion we are and what kind of bizarreness we are, let's say, who runs our household. It is obvious, Madam Secretary of State, that even within the Government you do not know exactly what is in conformity with the Constitution and what is not, at least after your introductory debate, not according to. But before I apologize, I hope you won't fire me again, because what I'm about to say, what I'm about to say, has to do with this amendment, the fifth. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u93	I'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u94	So I'm going to quote our prime minister's tweet, which was nine days before it turned out that these ideas were actually an introduction to this story. Our prime minister tweeted: "Maybe we should also monitor other statistically relevant data, such as nationality, religion and the like, as in most other countries around the world?" This is what John Janša tweeted on January 26th. This tangible tweet was intended for the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. He let him know because he was upset by some announcement from the Statistical Office, a bizarre thing, a joke, a joke about Bernie Sanders. At the time, it was a viral matter because Bernie Sanders was wearing some knitted gloves. At the Statistical Office, they joked and wrote that we have imported €63 000 of knitted and crocheted gloves into Slovenia in recent months. But why wasn't this record so innocent? I understand why the Prime Minister disturbed the exposure of Sanders, who is anti-Trumpa and so on, but in the same breath, the Statistical Office found out why he was not collecting data on nationality and religion. Well, that's the least out of the ordinary, and that's what happened like nine days before she saw the light of the world, this idea that it was supposed to get into this law right now. It's not such an innocent thing. For only nine days later, as it is said, the SDS party in the parliamentary procedure supported a proposal whereby residents and residents of Slovenia should again disclose to the country three sensitive personal data: their nationality, their religion and their mother tongue. Therefore, the logical question follows: who do we want to delete again this time? Why the SNS and the SDS have joined forces in this absurd amendment, whereby we citizens should necessarily tell the country, or even voluntarily, even though voluntarily, it has nothing to look for in such questions, what nationality and religion we are, what our mother tongue is, and where we live. I'm seriously wondering here if this is how it's drawn, if there's some kind of coalition for an ethnic identity registry. This is actually a key issue, these are not innocent things. Why would these two political parties want the state to know everything about us in connection with our residence? Seriously, why? And why are they trying to do this to the parties who have been actually making political gains over the years by counting people and contradicting all those who are disturbing them, let's say they're names of single women, same-sex women, Muslims, they're refugees, and so on. These are really very serious things, and we can't just wave a little easily here with our hand and say it because it's nothing, because they can write it voluntarily or not. It is enough for one to fall for such a question and write something that, by the end, is unacceptable, controversial. It's just that there's nothing for the state to get involved in these things. And, as it is said, the Constitution provides that no one can force us to speak about these matters, even more so as to reveal them when we report our residence. The data on this logic would by no means be anonymised, but a country which does not have these rights under the current rules could at any time verify the title of, for example, the atheists, Muslims, Serbs, Albanians, Arab-speaking residents and so on. What would a country do with a mountain of extremely sensitive data, of course, we do not know. For this purpose of gathering in the proposal is not defined, and this is added extremely controversial – to undertake such a feat without really defining why. This actually opens up boundless possibilities for abuse of the most sensitive content. The proposed amendments to Article 7 provide that an individual, when applying for a permanent residence, a permanent address abroad or a change in a permanent address abroad, should state or provide, inter alia, the following information: old permanent residence, nationality, religion, mother tongue and surname and name and EMU of the individual, take care of the head of the household and the related relationship with him. I mean, absurd. We know that in the past, in fact, countries have also collected data on nationalities and religions. Unfortunately, the most recent of these registers was the former Nazi Germany. Later, the collection of these data became optional, and most people had the opportunity to disclose their religion or ethnicity and their mother tongue. Because of nationalism, we also slowly abandoned it. Remember, in 1991, due to a protest against the collection of this data, the then Youth Journalist Ivo Standeker announced before the census of the Penguins Club, where he proposed that people be identified as penguins by nationality. As a result, the penguins became statistically detected residents of the Republic of Slovenia and the country then abandoned the collection of these data. We're talking about such absurd and sad things. That is why I really want to know what the SNS and SDS would like with this proposal. You want me to volunteer to tell you, "is a suis" penguin? Or maybe I'm a watermelon or something? I mean, really, come on. It's really bizarre and utterly repulsive. At the same time, it is extremely rejected and bizarre and distorted argument by the SNS's proponent, which refers to the reversed interpretation of Article 61 of the Constitution, according to which everyone in Slovenia has the right to freely express his or her nationality to his or her people or to the national community. Forgive me, the essence of this article is, of course, that no one should force an individual to express a national or other identity. In the SNS, however, it is said that people no longer have the opportunity to express this constitutional right when applying for permanent residence. Really? Really?Oh, my God! What about the societies in which they unite, where they cultivate their culture, their language, and so on? I mean, please, come on. In addition to the SNS Members, unfortunately, this interpretation was also supported by Members of the SDS' largest ruling party. Unfortunately, this clearly outlines a new pact between the two extremely nationalist parties of this National Assembly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u95	My colleague, I'm giving you a second warning. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're not connected. I'm giving you a second warning, and I'm warning you, if you continue with your insults, I'm going to take your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u96	Well, I believe you'd rather take my word away from me because I believe it hurts when a person defines things. Let's take a look at the intelligence officer's reaction. The collection of the particular sensitive data referred to above for the authorising officer shall constitute a very serious intervention in the privacy of individuals. In addition, it poses a wide range of risks to discrimination between individuals and individuals. Why are such ideas extremely dangerous? The amendment adopted on the parental committee opens up a number of potential abuses. On the one hand, we are separated from the real inhabitants of Slovenia, i.e. ethnic and cultural Slovenes, according to the possibility of traditional Catholic religion, and to the wrongs of the inhabitants of Slovenia, who have been here following historical mistakes, such as ethnic minorities, Roma, or as a result of migrant policies, the inhabitants of the former republics of Yugoslavia, refugees, labour migrants and so on. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we still have a living experience with the illegal disappearance of the population due to the need to remove part of the population of the newly created country. Regrettably, there are still dreams of nationalists about ethnically clean Slovenia, dreams that are plagued by history, present and future, but as such they must become all who do not conform to these performances. In the last census, it became more obvious that the population did not want to comment on religion. Each sixth resident specifically indicated that he wanted to answer that question. Today, however, there is no longer the rule that the people are as religious as its ruler. Modern religious freedom stems from freedom of conscience, which is also contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. Thus, the state cannot and must not force individuals to express their religion. Even if this particular information is recorded only as optional information, it may be a milder form of pressure for individuals to express their religion. This is even true of weaker individuals who are only temporary residents in our country. But here we do not only have controversial provisions on religion, but there is also some idea of re-traditionalisation, and I would call it “premature in the Middle Ages”. Bizarre is also information that should be given to who runs the household This touches the amendments, respected. I don't know what's wrong again. I'm talking about these things that I'm supposed to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u97	My colleague Sukič, since no one bothers you, you can talk [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, look, he's not dealing with you. You're disconnected. I'll give you my word back.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u98	Can I please finish? I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u99	Mrs. Sukič, I'm in charge of this session. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not taking your time. I'm in charge of the session. I have a responsibility to take care of the order. I, the not-speaking Member, and therefore I have warned you to debate in context, and nothing else. But do not deal with other fellow Members. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u100	Don't let them hide in my head when I'm talking. Bizarre is also information about who runs the household. What, then, should we do with this information, Your Honor? This actually smells like some kind of re-traditionalisation, or I call it "premature in the Middle Ages". The very idea that there is a head of household is extremely bizarre and really wrong. According to our family legislation, the partners are equal, we do not know the surviving concept of the head of the household, and in fact it sounds like a poorly updated concept from the Roman law pater familias. Such a proposal, in fact, respected and respected, is going in some way to re-traditionalize our society and to re-create some surviving hierarchical relations within the family. So please, these are three very absurd things that have nothing to look for in some novel of a law when we're talking about applying for permanent residence and so on. For other things, my colleague pointed out in the introduction why, even though you've been so hot in the police department, you've been walking around at home and checking everyone who has multiple applicants, you're even asking your neighbors. Okay, have some of your flashbacks about it, but this, these three things, I'm sorry, this is a disaster, and there's nothing to look for in our legislation. I'll stop here for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u101	Thank you very much. First he asked Dusan Šiško for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u102	Vice President, thank you. Please remind all the debaters and refresh them that, for the first time, the Slovenian National Party has proposed this amendment already in the Sharchev government, when we supported it, not as much as the Levica who blackmailed them. We didn't blackmail them. And because of them the government of Charc fell. Another time. Mrs Sukič does not know what she said yesterday, but today she mentions something of a National Party through. Leave us alone for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u103	Comrade Shisko, I hope you know this wasn't a procedural proposal. You can also comment on this in the debate if you apply. I also ask the others to stick to the topic of Article 5 and to the two amendments tabled. Mr. Koraji, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u104	My procedural proposal goes to you, Mr President. Earlier, you yourself mentioned that you are here to take care of the order at this meeting of the National Assembly – then start to worry that the other Members will not disturb the one who is discussing the agenda. Looks like the same vat for everyone. Then let them jump on the other side into the word, or let them go all the way. But if anything happens on this side, there'll be a whole drama. So I'm asking you to start taking care of order at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u105	Comrade Korazi, in case you haven't noticed, I'm in charge of order. I warned those who are making a mess. I didn't notice anyone jumping into anyone's word because it wasn't there. It wasn't. You can look at all the cameras and the magnetogram and you'll see it's not there. I also ask that you follow the article and the two amendments tabled. There is no need to be offensive to anyone in these discussions. So I gave my colleague two reminders because she was offensive in her position or discussion, and nothing else. Procedural Stomach Bricker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to remind you that colleague Sukičeva has led a clear discussion with all the explanations. In this she cited the performances of the representatives of the parties, but I will not say names, the Slovenian national parties and also the SDS, which were repeatedly, even when you led, to others racist, hateful, impatient, and they did not take the floor. Rasizem doesn't have room in this national council. But when someone logically gives you an argument about a government policy that obviously goes back to erasing certain or discrimination against certain national groups and minorities, you take the word for it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u107	Dude, where did I break the rules? Where was the Rules of Procedure abused? My colleague was insultingly defining people. You have both in the Rules of Procedure and in the Code of Ethics and also in the Constitution it is stated that no one should be offended and should be affected by certain characteristics that he does not have. Since everyone has his own personality rights, everyone can't be accused, I don't know, some inhumane behavior and so on. Everyone has their own personal dignity. These are constitutional matters. I won't give you another word for the motion of procedure, and that's what I've explained to you, and you stick to that. Procedural proposal, Comrade Koprivc? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Comrade Vice President, I know you're doing this theater on purpose. It's not the first time, it's happened several times, but I think it's right to point out that it's extremely inappropriate, what you're doing. You've been at least three times to a colleague of mine if you haven't broken the microphone four times for no real reason. Once, for example, when she said that SDS and SNS are extremely nationalist parties. Is that an insult? I don't think that's an insult. It's just a fact. And it's not right, it's wrong for you to abuse your role as vice president, so that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u109	Comrade Koprivc, where was the violation of the rules of procedure? I am warning you because you are violating the Rules of Procedure with a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u110	Mr. Vice President, I mean, this really isn't going anywhere anymore. Do not allow the whole matter to be explained and the debaters stopped. My procedural proposal was that you conduct the meeting properly and that you do not interrupt the debaters without the right reason. This is not in your jurisdiction. You interrupted your colleague several times, even though she didn't do anything wrong. But if it is wrong for him to speak and express his opinion, it is true to ask what kind of democracy is in the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm asking you to stop using your authority for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u111	Comrade Koprivc, first read carefully the rules or regulations in force in this national assembly. Read the code of ethics that you have adopted with such great enthusiasm and read a portion of the Constitution that speaks of human rights. Then make sure you understand that. And then we'll deal with who's right and who's wrong. First, you need to know how to use something. We continue the debate. The Secretary of State, Franz Kangler, asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In view of the words heard by the left-wing Member, I have to take a call. She claimed we were introducing a police state with this law. Your Honor, with all due respect to you, have you read the law? The government wants to prevent any abuse, but apparently you support abuse. Obviously, you support that some workers will continue to sleep in barns, warehouses, and so forth. We want to stop it. We want to relieve the administrative units, relieve the workers with reduced administrative procedures. We want to make order in this area [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm answering you. You have claimed, honourable Member, that we are enacting a police state by law. Is it a police state that we allow 100 people to live in one apartment house and the apartment is 50 or 100 square meters? This is a police state? Please! With all due respect, Members of Parliament and Members, I have sat alone in this house for 11 years. With all due respect, but apparently some of you can no longer sleep with John Janša, without John Janša, let alone wake up with John Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u113	Comrade Koprivc, for his rude, disrespectful behavior, another reminder. Next time, I will remove you from your session if you do what you do. Because you're asking others to behave, but you're doing the opposite. As for the debates that are taking place. If discussions were to go normally in the context of the article and the amendment and go as expected, there would be no neurotic conditions and there would be no need for replicas and responses. This is how it is generated automatically through debates, and these are consequences. Natasha Sukič has a replica of the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u114	Dear Secretary of State, let's clear up some notions. I was talking only about the amendments, not the whole marriage, so I don't know what you're getting yourself into. These things, which are a problem, are taking you to the police state. Because if we have control over what religion is, who is the head of the household and similar bizarreness, it is, excuse me, a complete control of citizens and citizens and it is a police state. In that sense, I was talking about the police state. As far as the other aspects are concerned, I did not comment on the broader law, but if you wanted to show the Government's sympathetic face for the second time, how you care about workers and how we don't care about workers in Levica, I can only tell you that this law will not solve the problem of mobile workers, truckers in any way. He's not going to save their troubles because they don't have a place to sign up. Not yet, not after this proposal. And I want to know what's wrong with them. But they're not just workers because they're drivers?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u115	This is already beyond the replica, colleague Sukič. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] This is not the answer, because there has been no discussion, not in your debate, nor in the response of the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] Franz Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u116	I would like to answer the Members' final questions about mobile workers, probably the driver in the international trades. Earlier, I had specifically warned that all those foreigners who will be in Slovenia will have the opportunity to report within three to 90 days to the police, not to the administrative unit. A foreigner who is employed in Slovenia, if not temporarily or permanently registered, will not lose any right, nor the right to a doctor or social health insurance, will be able to open a transaction account. The only problem he will have is that he will not be able to register his car in Slovenia. If he wants to register a car in Slovenia, he will have to arrange a temporary residence at the appropriate address, either he or the employer. And when you talk about mobile workers – also the 2006 regulation says that for a month these mobile workers must have 45 hours of rest either at the address of a permanent residence or in the employer’s area. 45 hours. Therefore, the employer or the worker himself will have to ensure that it is in accordance with the regulation adopted in the 2006 international freight forwarding in order to take care of this. It is unacceptable, however, that these domestically said workers spend their lives doing this and sleeping in trucks, parking lots, or elsewhere in inappropriate locations. That is why we are fighting to put an end to this, to ensure that they have proper and orderly status and an appropriate living environment, not warehouses. Or, as I said before, some who have been prominent representatives in previous governments have their employees by barn. Is this a normal country? It's not!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Procedurally Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u118	Madam President, I ask you to explain to the Secretary of State that we are now discussing amendments, not the whole law, and what the entire labour law will bring and what it will not bring. Don't let him take us anywhere else. We are talking about the controversy of some of the things in this law that are being resolved by amendments. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I think that what the Secretary of State said was discussed in the context of the article and the amendments tabled. We continue the debate. I hope this thing gets sewered. Janja the Servant has the word [[…]] [[background advertising]] I didn't notice. I've done it before. Vojko Starović procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. My procedural proposal is also aimed at alerting the Secretary of State to treat Members and Members with respect. He cannot raise his voice and tell us how to behave in this House. He's not in that position. Please warn him, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I hope you know that everyone has his own characteristics and way of speaking. We speak more out loud, we speak more quietly, one more dynamic, the other more so. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Janja Servant, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. First, I must say what has already been observed. I agree that we Members must stick to the darkness. If the Rules of Procedure say that there is now a debate on the amendments in this debate, then it is appropriate to stick to the debate on the amendments. But this also applies to government representatives. So I ask that, on the other hand, the amendments be discussed. However, I support all the intentions of the law, as we have also said in the position of the Group of Members. And also what the Secretary of State is now talking about, which means improving for foreign workers, their living conditions or at least one resident in employers, that they will no longer do so, I absolutely support and hold that. But let us now really talk about this article or about the amendments that have been tabled. Following the amendment of the Left Group's amendment, there has essentially been substantive coverage with our amendment, so that we will probably vote on both together because the content is now identical. I used to laugh when the Secretary of State first called — why? Because he repeated the same lie so vehemently the second time. In fact, for the first time, he said it in coalition coordination itself when he said that the Government had now drafted some of its text, or some of its amendments, which was coordinated at the highest level among the party presidents. Of course it doesn't. Of course you don't. I'm also surprised by the repetition of this lie, and I've been thinking about it. What I have already said to all those present in coalition coordination at that time. Every law, every bill, every amendment has its own purpose. The purpose of the Residence Registration Act is exactly what the name says — residence registration and nothing else. Data on religion, mother tongue, nationality, of course, are not relevant to the application of residence. They're not. Nothing. To speak now about these data being collected again in relation to an individual, and even in the intention that you brought to coalition coordination, where the last paragraph even intended to realize that someone did not want to define himself – this is unconstitutional. Let's just say that, yes. The Constitution is very clear in Article 41 when it comes to freedom of conscience. Very clear. No one is obliged to identify his religious or any other beliefs. The Constitution is also clear in Article 38, which speaks of the prohibition of the collection of personal data contrary to their purpose. And yes, we can talk about the fact that we used to collect this data. I remember when I participated in the census back in 2001 and 2002, and I know how these things happened. The vast majority of people did not want to be identified and did not need to be defined at the time. However, some have identified themselves, and although it was clear that their nationality was different, they identified themselves as Slovenians because they felt Slovenian, and so is the case. That's right. But those data were collected at the time, and then, of course, they were anonymized for statistical purposes. Now we have a completely different situation here. In this context, the purpose of the law is contrary to the purpose of the registration of residence to collect such data. I'd like to warn you about something. I would like to draw attention to the debate of the Secretary of State on 4 February this year at the meeting of the home working body after the amendments of the Slovenian National Party have been tabled. Mr Secretary of State has received the floor and said, I quote: "Thank you very much. The Government does not support the amendments proposed by the Slovenian National Party in this Article." What can be clearer? I repeat: “The Government does not support the amendments proposed by the Slovenian National Party to this Article.” Then, of course, there was a vote on these amendments, where SMC and Nova Slovenija did not support it, including the SAB, I think the representative of the SAB was against it, the others were abstaining and the matter was adopted. Then, in the meantime, I don't know what happened, it obviously seemed to someone that this could be used for some other purpose, and it came up with the idea that maybe they would have included these things in the text, as I said under the pretext of volunteering, but in some parts of the text, saying that someone didn't want to define themselves. Then why should this indication be used? We can only think. It is also very helpful to see what is happening on Twitter, but we are at a time when Twitter needs to be monitored. When Surs posted a picture of Bernie Sanders in gloves on Twitter on January 26th, this tweet was retweeted by the Prime Minister of the Government and wrote: "Maybe we would also be monitoring other statistically relevant data, such as nationality, religion and the like, as in most other countries around the world?" This, of course, was meant for Surs. The SNS also came to us downstairs to understand each other. Her champion wrote, as Shisko said earlier, that the SNS had already proposed this twice. And from here, I suppose, these ideas about the collection of these data were now born, and probably then about their use further for gods of any purpose, but certainly not for the purposes of the application of residence. Because, once again, there is no need for this information in my firm belief. But I do have one question for the Secretary of State. As we have already said, and as I have found out, when an individual comes to a counter and has to define what nationality he is, he can therefore be defined as he thinks he is right. In this country, however, we also have some other rights arising from nationality, namely those belonging to the constitutionally recognised members of the Italian, Hungarian and Roma communities in Slovenia. You know that each of them must make a statement on the membership of the special commission, i.e. the electoral commission, for the purposes of the electoral directory, for the purposes of electing a member of their representative to the National Assembly. There is the establishment of an electoral directory of members of the Italian, Hungarian and Roma communities. There, however, is not enough for someone to come before the committee to say: “I am a member of the Italian national community.” It's not enough. This Commission shall then, on certain criteria, carry out a hearing with that person to verify that it complies with those criteria. The criteria, however, are particularly related to maintaining a long-standing, lasting relationship with the national community, to some concern about the preservation of everything that this community also establishes, its identity, culture, language, for example, an individual's kinship, to another knee is even written in a row, and so on. And only if an individual fulfils all these conditions will this commission find that he is a member of this community. On this basis, an electoral directory shall be established. And now I'm asking you what the intent is now in the law on residence registration. After what I said, conditions are stricter, not enough to just say that you are Italian, Hungary, I don’t know anything — how would you plan to act in this case? Therefore, there is a Commission which identifies nationality under certain stricter conditions, there is a electoral directory on the basis of which, of course, there is a significant discrepancy in a particular definition at the time of the application of residence. Why am I telling you this? I hope you understand that I'm trying to show that what you're saying is pointless and not going together. It will be very difficult to find some reasonable reasons why we should do so. Once again: you disagreed with the amendments. The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law without this in another text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Member, no one here has lied to the government. At coalition coordination, where you were present, I am [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u125	Mr Secretary of State, I'm sorry. I can't hear you. A little closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u126	You are now the second, esteemed Vice President to remind me of this, if I am too loud, and others warn me to be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u127	This level is just right. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u128	Okay. I apologize to the honourable Member of the SAB. There were witnesses and clearly and loudly I said that the government had not been summoned because of an amendment prepared by the Government. However, this amendment among the presidents of political parties who form a coalition, including with your President, Mr Restoring, has been coordinated. That's what I made clear. And I also said today that I was surprised and that he was in harmony. Mr Grims was also present at that coordination, the representative of New Slovenia and also you as representative of SMC. What would I lie about? I was informed by the Minister that this is coordinated among the presidents of the political parties and that the government will not be called upon because of one amendment. This, however, was a proposal from the Government, which should be summarised by the parliamentary groups. The second thing you asked me, and you wanted my answer. One is the Law on Registration and Registration, and the other is the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. This has nothing to do with what is happening and what is regulated by minority elections in Slovenia. He doesn't and he can't. If someone declares to be Italian, he's Italian. If anyone declares to be Hungary, it is Hungary. What's the problem? No problem. He has the right to elect his representative to the Slovenian Parliament and has the right to choose a political party, as the law says. No constitutional right has been violated by such a person in the event of a voluntary determination that he is Italian or Hungarian by nationality. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u130	We obviously didn't get along. My question was rhetorical. Why? Because, of course, as Secretary of State, we should know that laws cannot and must not contradict each other and must be mutually coordinated. To talk about one marriage having nothing to do with another [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u132	Dear Member, it is likely that we will not judge whether one law opposes another. For this they are competent institutions, for which the Government has its legal service and the National Assembly has its legislative and legal service. But you are the messengers who will be identified to the opinions, and above all to the amendments you have on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Like the last one in this circle, he's got the word "mag." Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u134	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. Slovenia is therefore not a foreign country, foreigners are welcome here, guests are, if they come in a fair, legitimate way, with fair intentions, but a country of all its citizens and citizens, which is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. Not any nation – the Slovenian nation. Now I'm just waiting for someone to blow up and say, and we're not going to tolerate that kind of nationalism in this national council. Ladies and gentlemen, given the debate so far, this would be a good time. Who's going to be What I have quoted to you is the third article of the Slovenian Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, which is how you like to refer to the Slovenian Constitution. How's the Slovenian Constitution going? “Slovenia is a democratic republic. Slovenia is a legal and social state. Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens, which is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination." And so on. “In Slovenia there is power of the people” is the next paragraph and I will conclude here. I am very interested in how many of you who have just discussed the constitution could quote the articles of the Slovenian Constitution. I don't think so. And I'm sad that it is. For if we knew that, we would also know that the fundamental constitutional principle that the Constitution must be dealt with must be understood as a whole. You can't just draw one article out and refer to it, because at some point your reference to it suits you, but you have to look at it as a whole. What does that mean? That, on the very constitutional basis, the Slovenian people are inseparably linked to the existence of the Slovenian state. On the contrary, the Slovenian state cannot exist if there is no more Slovenian nation, as it is justified on its inalienable right to self-determination. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how are we going to implement this provision if we don't even know how many of us there really are? These things used to be measured by field research, but unfortunately they don't work anymore. They were then kept in records, even at the time of the existence of this Constitution, even at the time of the existence of the Constitutional Court. It is not true what some of you have said – that the Constitutional Court has never discussed this, including freedom of religion and freedom of expression of nationality or belonging to the Slovenian people. Many of these issues have been addressed in their decisions. Why don't you go get 'em, brother? You'll be surprised how much this has said over the years. However, it was more professional, I say, to a large extent more subdued, and with the honorary exception of Mr Jaklic's two-time doctor of science, there were different people in him. And again and again, without exception, they confirmed that the arrangements were in order until then. There's never been anything undone on this subject, at least to make me remember, no. What does that mean? That what has been proposed — to collect voluntary data on belonging to the Slovenian people, on the mother tongue, on religion — cannot be contrary to the Constitution. If you want to, you tell me if you don't want to, you don't. Freedom of expression, ladies and gentlemen! Freedom of expression has two elements, constitutionally speaking. First, no one can force you to make a statement when it comes to freedom of expression. And the second is that you have a right, a chance to talk about it somewhere. If not, this freedom is only apparent. You forgot about that, didn't you? And what is this really about? For that fear of Noah – let us put our heads in the sand, and let us pretend that we are all penguins, as was previously said in my terms very insultingly, so that we do not know what is really going on with our Slovenia, and with the Slovenian nation as its irresistible constitutional foundation. That's really what this is about. And don't say it's a new topic. We have opened this subject up in the previous term, and I myself have opened it up, and again in this mandate. Why was there a proposal here? Because of the need to start somewhere, and where is it a better start to start collecting it at least on a voluntary basis than a permanent residence application? The vast majority of countries – you can go quietly to your study, ladies and gentlemen, I have done it – it collects as mandatory data, you will not believe it. At least one of those three listed. The vast majority. And no one's asking that question. Even when you enter some countries they give you to fill out, say on a plane you get a form and you have to state your nationality, you have to state your mother tongue. One of these seemed problematic as to why the mother tongue should be given. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because this gives rise to certain rights! Then if you're asking for an interpreter for your mother tongue, what are you asking for? Before that, you're saying I couldn't tell you what his mother tongue is -- where do you have logic here, huh? It is therefore data collected by virtually all democratic countries in one way or another. Many more of these data are collected, if not for any other purpose, for statistical, scientific and other treatment. For when this data is not available, as is currently not available in Slovenia, it is manipulated by this data, and this is bad. One of them seems nice, because they want to hide their eyes or hide what they are really doing, and others think, "She won't see how few of us are or how weak we are." That's what? Covering up yourself, lying to yourself. What does that accomplish? Nothing. It is true, however, that there are many elements here that we should seriously ask ourselves, in view of this debate today, what State Assembly and what country we are living in. If someone makes a direct mockery of the Slovenian people, as was the case before, it is essentially an expression of hatred towards his people, ladies and gentlemen. Hatred of one’s own nation is, in fact, the worst form of racism. When someone then said that racism should be no place — what is worse racism than making a fool of one’s own nation, hatred of one’s own people? That's what I'm asking you. Sooner or later, legislation will have to be reorganized, and here is a great opportunity for us to start somewhere. If any of these were included in any of the amendments that we adopted on the committee as amendments to the committee — these are some that have been overlooked — then this can still be rectified once and for all by a change of law. I will personally strongly oppose this being deleted, and of course I will vote against all the proposed amendments. But as for the very content that this covers as a whole, look. All that has happened with regard to these applications for permanent residence and manipulation in administrative units is essentially abuse. There's been a lot of crime here. Here I have to thank the SMC representative, who mentioned earlier that Kranj sent proposals, only a pity because she has not yet said that they were my proposals. This is what I have proposed, prepared, drawn conclusions, invited people to the meeting at the Municipality of Kranj. And there, you will not believe, we have reached an incredibly high level of consensus on all my proposals. I think that there were two votes against, but the rest was virtually unanimously adopted. Then you received this in writing. What's this all about? Because there are two aspects to this. It's one of them, by the way, purely common crime. It is said that people take advantage of abuse, including by importing people from elsewhere, and then paying them poorly, which is what the tariffs are known for. And behold, some administrative units do this more vehemently than others, and the law should be the same and apply to all in the same way. I hope we really agree on this one more time. And then, on the other hand, these earnings that are obvious don't interest Furs. Furs will haunt you for every euro, for a hundred euros, but when it comes to the fact that there are a number of people reported to a god on some address, no one was willing to go and ask where the leases are. And it knew exactly what the tariff was. This was all said in this session – from 30 to 50 euros per month. And if you have, like at one apartment in Kranj, 123 registered there in the city center, calculate what kind of profits this is, untaxed. Is that fair? No, it's a crime. This has to be pursued. What is even more important, and that is why I stress this in particular in all of what we are talking about today, a lot of allegations, including those given in administrative units, have been false, proved false or later, when the police examined the information they received from citizens, have shown that some data are not real. And then the police, watch out, fired up, that was officially said in Kranj on the city council, and hundreds of procedures, and neither was completed. They didn't have epilogues, they ended up with prosecutors, or they just disappeared. As for the proposals for the administrative unit to find that these persons are not actually living there, that they are not there or that there are any other abuses, whatever, the police have already officially – once again, it was the police's report – found that the administrative unit has not processed. She waited six months and a year, and it was published again and again, and so on and so forth. Thus, it is not only a problem that the legislation was not appropriate, but also apparently some have not done their work in the way that it would have been necessary. That's why I was particularly struck when the representative of the Left pointed out in the first place how terrible it was for the police to go and check the data on the ground, how they were with whom and whether they were actually living, or what they were doing, or what they were doing, and so on — yes, a good day! The police are doing their job. Thank God he's doing it. Congratulations to the police for doing their job. Only I would like it to be consistent and that the second law will be implemented more consistently, of course when it is adopted. And then everyone else in this chain is called the prosecution, and at the end of the court, they do their job, including those. You know, because that's what happens when you actually live 50 people in one hall in impossible conditions, inhuman. Someone's doing a good job at their expense. And because they're foreigners and because they don't find each other, they don't know the language, and so on, they're happy to use them literally for animal use. And we have another form of crime again. And that is why this needs to be checked, and that is why this law needs to be adopted. So that this story ends and prevents it. It is interesting, however, that until we had been through the ice of this story in Kranj, there was no way to get a lot of this information out of the public eye, nor was there any particular interest in seriously discussing the subject. From this point of view, I must say that this law is necessary. Because these things need to be settled in Slovenia because there are massive abuses because some with crime at the expense of their fellowmen, at the expense of foreigners, or at the expense of their locals, depending on who they are, they are serving, and they are illegal. If we want to live in a country that will be a state of law in the right sense of the word, it is necessary to regulate these things so that the legal and social state of Slovenia will be for everyone and everyone. And we're back on the Slovenian Constitution. As you continue to debate, please remember the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Slovenian Constitution: “Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens, which is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination.” This was an international justification when we were exercising our nationality, and this is the point that we also defended in the war for Slovenia. That's not nationalism. This is pride in what we have today. We have Slovenia, the country of the Slovenian nation and all its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debaters. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u136	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Law of residence. I thought this marriage was too late in the National Assembly, but thank God it is. With great attention, I listened to the debate both on the left and on the right. Of course, I am a little surprised about some of the debates, but everyone has the right to think and also to debate on his conscience. However, it might be possible to discuss for ourselves that, when we cross the borders of a foreign country or neighbouring country in our lives, we should, of course, immediately switch to respect for their laws, rules of the game and very rarely do we not respect these laws in the country in which we enter. But when we talk about our own country, especially when we talk about those laws or regulations that are supposed to be followed by those who pass through for the first time in our country, we often do not have the same opinion. I think this is very bad for the Republic of Slovenia. I am going specifically to the law that is on the tables of this national assembly. I couldn't believe it myself twice when a member of the administrative unit told me that there were 36 people in the facility that I went to look at. Since I couldn’t believe it, I went to see it for myself, once in my congregation, and once in the congregation in the region. When I go to the administrative unit myself, sometimes you feel like you've come to any neighbouring country, because you don't even hear the Slovenian word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because we have concerns about such a quality law – I am firmly convinced that there are many of our citizens and citizens working on administrative units, some of the conscious citizens working under the letter of the law, and imagine when a foreigner comes to the administrative unit and when he declares his residence in the facility that I mentioned earlier, she who lives in the same municipality knows and knows exactly that he is applying in the facility where the nets grow. I think it is our task, fellow Members of the State and Government, to remove these anomalies that we have in the Republic of Slovenia immediately. I am pleased and, of course, welcome the ministry's efforts to have this law on our tables, and I will support it with all responsibility. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbich, prepare Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, other present, very nice greeting! In view of the progress of the debate so far, I must admit that I will, at least for the introduction of a few words, still devote the importance of this, but I will be very brief and I will move very quickly on to the amendment itself. We are simply not aware of what the register of permanent population means in this national assembly. Here again I will make it very clear that this is one of the most important, key registers of each country, not only in this case of the Republic of Slovenia. In proof of this, I will only point out why it is so important for this permanent population register to reflect the current state of affairs, not so-called abuse and fictitious reporting, which is the purpose of these changes in the final stage. In particular because this permanent population register is literally linked to a number of other registers, which are still important in the exercise of various rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and in some part of the foreign population. If I'm specific, it's linked to the passport records, to the home registry, to the foreign registry itself. That I will not then speak to the records of individuals who have or seek the right to so-called international protection, and so on. In this introduction, I just wanted to mention that this register is still important and that it is still important for each country to have an up-to-date state that shows the actual situation of people residing in the country, perhaps with permanent residence or temporary residence. As regards today's debate and the amendment that has been tabled. Here I sincerely hope to say that the content of the amendment, which has so far been very controversial, simply has no bearing on the amendment to this law. However, it is a matter of a political decision, or certain elements, to include items that we know very well mainly in those processes where the so-called population census is carried out. Legitimate. As a result, it is the National Assembly that this matter is being carried out. However, I am absolutely firm in the view that any abuse and fictitious reporting has not only taken place in recent years, this has been a series of years, but there has obviously been no political interest to put it this way. Because years ago, people would say, to a large extent, a group of people, not from the Republic of Slovenia, who abused partly temporary residences, were also citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but not as escalating as they are now. In view of the fact that there have been several attacks on the Secretary of State, I must admit that I must defend myself in at least one part of it. Whatever the case, he mentioned in his introductory presentation that it was happening – and most likely it is still happening, perhaps not in the last month – that those individuals or groups who want to carry out the tour of the law were actually walking or driving through Slovenia and were looking for the possibility of providing a so-called fictitious application of temporary residence through administrative units. I can tell from my experience that it was true. So it is kind of normal for citizens or foreigners to seek out ways, whether through a legal void or through a visit to a marriage, if possible. And if there is no consistent control, if there is no legal provision that very clearly and predetermines it and prevents me from speaking to sanctioning it, it simply happens. That's why it's certainly right that we have this marriage on the table. Given the fact that there was a little bit of controversy about administrative units, too. 58 in Slovenia, this is widely known, and as was said in the previous debate – it is indeed something. These 58 administrative units are subject to a case that needs to be made public and has also been honestly mentioned. Most of these processes, processes happen in major municipal municipalities where there are administrative units. Certainly the most exposed administrative unit is Ljubljana. I will not talk about this, because the process of work, how they deal with this quantity, is a matter of the Chief, while at the same time both the Department of Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration. What I wanted to point out was something. If we are critical, and we must also be self-critical in this National Assembly, the fact that, above all, for officials in administrative units on so-called windows, in direct contact with customers, foreigners and also resolve such matters is necessary to recognise that they are overloaded. Here, the leaders must play their part to make some movement in this context, in particular, so that, in a certain direction, the loads of work work at least in individual concentrated administrative units and, on the other hand, that the customers, domestic or foreign, are serviced even at some normal time. However, it must also be acknowledged that if all administrative units consistently exercise their powers, their work, then the case mentioned at the time of the presentation would not have occurred. I don't think I'm going to be too wrong, Maribor Administrative Unit, Krško Administrative Unit, where there was a so-called mass registration, an abuse of residence. We can also talk to them for good here, because one is to say why an institution or body within the Ministry or whatever is not acting in the letter of the law as it is expected and so on, but sometimes we are unjust, because from the position of a Member, from the position of Minister, it is possible to give any kind of assessment. But when you're an officer in an operational procedure, sometimes you're in the final stages of not working on an IT system, so I won't talk about the inaction of the links between registers and the like. I'm gonna end up at this point. I just wanted to mention that there were some mistakes that were made. I am pleased that the procedures have somehow been introduced, and this is certainly a sign that those who run such administrative units or 58 administrative units will start significantly differently, with greater seriousness to deal with such problems, especially at the assumption – because I believe that this law will also be adopted. As far as the amendment is concerned, I'll only have two words. I must admit that personally, this is a little strange to me, despite the fact that I understand that we come from different political beliefs and the like and that everyone advocates one's own agenda. I will only touch on what is also one of the elements of the conversation, the so-called household records. I've seen it myself in part. This so-called household record has literally been cancelled 31. 12. 2020, today we are practically a month or two after that. What was that household record for? Yeah, I agree, collecting some information, records and the like, but to what extent was it? Above all, I am thinking from this title, because at this time, as far as I have information, there has been no update from anyone. On the other hand, even if there has been abuse, has anyone found this abuse not to talk about sanctions? This alone raises the question of why to introduce something, because literally two months ago, due to some needs, I can also say maybe some debirocracy. I don't understand. I agree that certain data from different countries are accepted to be necessary, I have no problems here, but I am very dissatisfied with the fact that, after three years, if any information is found to be being collected – and in the end, this conclusion is also made by those who proposed then – that it does not serve a particular purpose – then it is reintroduced. But here, I must admit, I have a certain amount of reservations. If I finish. I think that such a matter, at least as regards the content of Article 5, should in principle not be a problem in the process of adopting the law itself. I think that we Members are so aware that we are aware that such abuses regarding fictitious applications simply need to be said no once and give a clear message to all those who, in one way or another, want to abuse it in order to make it absolutely impossible for them to do so. The country’s jurisdiction under this law is indeed one of the essential elements in making this impossible. I absolutely believe that we are here in agreement and, in principle, there must be no problem at all. But I'd still like to take this opportunity, Madam Vice President, to allow me to step back a little bit. As the Secretary of State is also present here, however, one brief appeal would be made in relation to abuses that are potentially taking place and will also be present, and because we are now in this debate on amending the law on the application of temporary and permanent residence and then reintroducing local jurisdiction. I think it would be good to consider reintroducing local competences for other personal documents, from a personal card, a driver's license, a travel document if we really want to manage as little abuse as possible in the country. Because just with that, with the whole thing, the whole thing being handled, then you have so much more control to minimize any abuse. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Natasa Sukić, preparing a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm gonna be much shorter this time than the first time. In some of the discussions, I have noticed, for example, the thesis that we do not even know how many Slovenians there are and so on. Let me remind you that the law on residence registration is not intended for the number of pure-bred Slovenes and Slovenes. Article 38 of the Constitution clearly prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection. Therefore, if the purpose of the gathering is to register a permanent residence, we cannot afford to count in the meantime the number of pure - blooded Slovenians, the number of these and those after the confession and so on. This is what upsets the most in this bill. That's why the amendments. The Slovenian national party therefore raised the issue of the applicant's nationality and religion in the application process and this is extremely controversial. It's constitutionally unacceptable. On the right you base this on cases of abuse where more than 100 migrant workers on their way to work in Slovenia and elsewhere within the borders of the European Union are supposed to be fictitiously reported at one address. But I have to say, you're dealing with a problem at the wrong end. Instead of confusing all of us to complicate the simplest procedure of applying for residence, you are opening up virtually new possibilities for discrimination, for various misuses of personal data, instead of being a real culprit. These true culprits, while we are at this point, the respected secretary, who has previously been sympathetic to workers, are those employers who exploit the migrant labour force in inhumane conditions, or a system that allows hundreds of ways that one group of workers is paid less than another group of workers for equal work. These are the problems. But we have to solve these problems elsewhere, of course, in some other laws. Here we are talking about applying for permanent residence, and we certainly are not talking about counting pure - blooded Slovenes and Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u141	Thank you very much. He gets the word in this circle. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's debate turned in one direction, for which, in view of the debate that took place at the time, I thought it would not happen. At that time, the Secretary of State, on a proposal from the SNS, said, reading a magnetogram: "To make my decision, I will define the amendments. The amendments tabled by the Slovenian National Party in the past are not supported by the Government. Today we received other amendments to the table at the time of the sitting. Until these amendments, however, the Government has not identified itself and has not examined them.” But look at the fraction, these amendments essentially do not deviate from the previous amendments that the Slovenian National Party has tried to introduce in the past through other laws. Therefore, I am very disappointed at such a volatile attitude that actually interferes with human dignity and leads to people starting to label themselves and collecting data for purposes for which it is not really clear why they are being collected. Religious belief and nationality are a matter for each individual. If a fellow Member had said something like that before, "Can Members declare a constitution?" I think it is more important than to declare that it is important to know it and understand it, also to understand the reading text, what people and what readers read. I think it's more important than that. When we travel abroad and meet different forms, “nationality” in English does not mean nationality, but nationality. So that's what we need to understand and know. To touch on fictitious applications, which are obviously a problem, when workers' rights are mainly abused through A1 forms. I think that this needs to be resolved simply and prevented in all possible ways. We have cases where more than 100 people are registered at different addresses or at one address and, in fact, no one is sanctioned, everything is somehow following these procedures. Here I welcome the efforts of the Government and the ministries to prevent this and to establish spatial standards that will allow workers and their families dignity and also ensure that people are properly and properly paid for their work. But the way the debate and this intimidation are going today, I just don't get it. I agree with my fellow Servant that this is unacceptable, and I also agree with her clear protest against such perversion. I am very concerned that such a law essentially legalizes or paves the way for spreading hatred, hate speech. We are talking on average about the abuse of social transfers by foreigners, but look, these people have come to Slovenia because they have recognized here that they can have a centre of their life activities also because we do not have our own workers who are willing to do this work, and now they are on average criminalised in this National Assembly. What kind of signal do we give to these people? Where else are we gonna get someone else in construction? Where are we gonna get someone in the car company if we're sending signals like this? Who's gonna work in retirement homes? Who's gonna work in health care? These are the problems and challenges we need to find answers to and the spread of the hate speech that we are witnessing right here is unacceptable. I don't agree when someone says that freedom of expression is unlimited and that hate speech can spread or speak as long as someone gets confused. You know, it's one terror that we talked about at one of the previous meetings when some people get intimidated, threatened, put pressure on them, and also that when they appear to the employer, they get an automatic lower salary due to that speech. You know, it's a very dangerous thing to do, and anyone who hasn't been abroad doesn't understand it, because the Slovenians abroad have been subjected to such humiliation. It saddens me that today in this National Assembly we are witnessing such a discourse that what someone comes to say is, yes, the whole administrative unit is full of foreigners, the whole school is full of foreign children. You know, it's a very short-sighted thing to do, and we know where doing it leads. This does not lead to problems being solved, but leads to an automatic lower salary when a foreigner appears to an employer. This is a stigmatization of people, and Slovenians who work abroad also receive it. You know, as we have this debate about foreigners today, the same discussions are being held by Slovenians when they go to Austria, Switzerland, Germany, England, to America. Until a person experiences this, he does not even know what he is saying and what the consequences of such discourse leave behind. I am deeply saddened that such hate speech as we are witnessing here today is spreading and gaining legitimacy in this national assembly. Comrade Ivanus, ask one of your fellow Christians how they treat him when he goes to Austria. This should not be allowed to do so in the National Assembly, and we must do everything possible to prevent such a way of speaking from spreading hostility as soon as possible and to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, given that you have challenged me, I must be honest with you that I have not seen the hate speech here today in the National Assembly. We are here today talking about the law on registration and cancellation. It is true, however, that the current law we have in force is often misused for social transfers, and it is right for Members to talk about it. Some abuse social transfers, get a thousand 500 euros of support, and your mother or a relative gets 500 euros in pensions for 40 years. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm answering you. Does that seem fair and fair to you? We want to prevent abuses by this law, and we do not waste any fundamental rights on anyone, whether he is a Slovenian citizen or a foreigner or a member of the European Union, and he is entitled to all rights under this law and other laws. Also in the debate on the question of the left-wing Member, how and how we will resolve the problem with this law, as far as mobile workers are concerned, my answer was clear. That's what the government took care of. It is unacceptable, however, that some employers will exploit the Law on Registration and Registration in such a way that they will continue to abuse in certain business buildings or buildings that are unfit for the residence of workers who are temporarily employed in Slovenia and who are temporarily registered here. And that someone, as Mr Grims said, would have a 50-square apartment and 50 people who were reported to have cashed in at home for 50 euros a month because they have registered it there. We also checked the intersectoral coordination of what a worker loses if a foreigner in Slovenia is from third countries, not an EU member, rather than a temporary or permanent one. Nothing except that he will no longer be able to register a car in Slovenia. For registration in Slovenia for a car for a worker from abroad, third countries, it is necessary to have a temporary or permanent residence. It's the only right he'll lose. But we do not take this right by means of this law, for it will be possible for him to settle his temporary residence in a fair, just, and appropriate manner. That's all this is about. Nobody takes that right away from him. But not in this way anymore – let no one blame me, and there are also cases like this – that there will be 30 workers registered in and actually settled there in warehouses. By this law, when you adopt it – I believe that the law will receive great support from your side, as you yourself have predicted – those employers and landlords who have business premises that have been misused in the past will be forced to align their records with Gurs if they want to have anyone else registered in the future. While the law allows both ministers, the Minister for Environment and Space responsible for Gurs and the Minister for Home Affairs to adopt and sign the rules, where we also know exceptions such as student homes, student homes, nursing homes, as far as the surface is concerned, useful living space. We'll handle this with an internal file. I think that today, in this debate, we have been clear enough on the part of the Government to prevent abuses, to take no constitutional rights from anyone, but to prevent them from benefiting from this right given to the Constitution. Whether it is a Slovenian citizen, an EU citizen or a third-country national.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word "magic" has re-enacted. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u146	Thanks again for saying that. If you want the whole mechanism of how this is going on, directly speaking, there is unfortunately a group of people in Slovenia who are serving it, importing people from third countries, generally not from EU countries, even though there are some from here, and there is usually a worse use of those who are imported in this way. Those who import then report them to their addresses, those where they have a possibility, a very large number in one address, that's the rule. These people go to the institution or before they go to the competent institution, report that they are Swiss, they are all welders, in short, to do some work that is lacking in Slovenia, they get a certificate. This gives them a decision, and they are here for one year, and then they bring the entire family up to the extent possible. And then, usually, something weird happens again with the reports, so I don't keep going this way. Then they go abroad and pay taxes and everything else pays Slovenian social. If anyone tells me it's fair – sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it's a crime. It's called abuse of the right to use the right expression. And don't talk to me about abuse of law, hate speech. Then what does that mean? That you can't tell the truth anymore? So that we can no longer talk about what is right, and what is the legal order? If you're talking about something where there's such obvious abuse, and it's systemic, mass as it is in this case, it's perfectly clear here. First time. There is a violation of Slovenian legislation, planned, conscious, implicitly, if you want, massively. Another time. This is who pays for it – Slovenian taxpayers pay. So, we are talking about abuses and we are talking about how Slovenian taxpayers pay for this money – if the country were to do what it is for, and if you wanted to, this National Assembly did its job as it should, and adopted such laws to prevent these abuses – we could set up for their education, for their pensioners, for their higher pensions, for better health care, if you want, for new hospitals, for all that we really need in Slovenia. That's the point of the story. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an hate speech. But if he wants to face real problems, even if he wants to keep his eyes closed before mass abuse — where does that lead? Today, one of the media’s websites reports that a German house or a German university has conducted a study on how to drug and blackmail people so that more money can be spent on foreigners and less money for them. This is, of course, if you wish, to your own people racism; I will also use this term because it is true. But it's being imposed now. Isn't that hate speech? And that's what this is all about. Please, let us put things back in the framework of the Slovenian Constitution, which I have quoted earlier. And once again, my friend, the Constitution must be read as a whole. Every right has two parts. So if you have, say, freedom of religion, that means you have the right to say it, and you also have to be given a chance to say it. And on the other hand, no one can force you to say that if you don't want to. Everything we have prepared, and even that amendment, as has now been adopted, has already been adopted in this context, it is said that it is a matter of volunteering. It's a little embarrassingly written, and maybe it's too extensive, but it's appropriate as far as that goes. In addition, some of you have pulled forward, “yes, then the data should not be used in conflict with the purpose”. Wait, no one said they'd drive anyone away or I don't know what on some data here. That would be data abuse. But if you process this data statistically, then you use it for scientific and all other purposes, but it's the most normal use of data. These are anonymized data, there's no data here that's personal or I don't know what kind of information. However, it is obvious that some of this information is extremely frightening because then you would see the real situation, the real situation. Let's also say that one sixth didn't want to say it once – yes, and it's five sixths. So I, too, am happy to say that I am a Slovenian and I am a Catholic, a Christian. What's wrong here? I'm proud of what I am, and I'm proud of my homeland of Slovenia. Because I know it is based on my right of my people to self-determination. This is not nationalism, ladies and gentlemen, let's learn to separate it already. It's patriotism. That you love your country, that you love your people, that you love all your people. That doesn't mean you're more than that, but you're proud of who you are. This is missing in Slovenia. If you think I am the only one who sees this – the former ambassador of the Republic of Poland, who was a fantastic man, has repeatedly said, even on one round table he has said publicly that if something is missing from the Slovenes, it is “that national pride to know what a beautiful country you have, what a wonderful nation you are, what your abilities are, what your abilities are, and how to build on it”. Because that's the basis on which it's worth building. Our country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u148	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I will refer to all the debates held so far in the National Assembly today. I will try to present the matter as situationally as possible with regard to this unacceptable amendment adopted by the Committee at that time. I'm gonna take a direct case right now. Recently, a few days ago, high school students were engulfed — and now we are in line — who maintained physical distances that were outdoors with masks, but because they were protesting against the government or because they were against something or were actually going to fight for their better tomorrow or to return to school, they were punished. Now, let's take a look at the whole story, and I'll introduce it further. People are already in one way or another because of the repression that is currently taking place in the country, I will say, fear of the police, police procedures, fear that they will be punished because the penalties are too much. And when you come up with such a proposal as this amendment, it is said that additional information about the mother tongue, about the old permanent residence, about nationality, about religion, then people become even more afraid. Because they feel that they are already discriminated against on a daily basis, more or less everyone is already afraid to say anything out loud, even something to criticize, because they can then follow such or other punishments. And when you come up with such a proposal, you actually squeeze people even more into a corner, even more afraid of them with some fear in this case. What's interesting is that I've already gotten used to it in this National Assembly, and we've already learned more or less in the PKP, every time a ruling, biggest client comes along with a proposal, some of them – and I'm not going to say rats because you're all saying that, but – rejects happen. Whatever was added to the PKP, not only did it not belong to the PKP, but it did not actually have anything to do with infecting the virus or the Coronavirus epidemic. And that's the same thing. Again, a matter was quickly added or added with some purpose. But if we have learned something in this national convention, it is that John Janša never adds anything without a relationship or takes away. That's what I think we've all learned here. For the whole situation, we would like to hear more fully why this was added or for what purpose. Why? In view of the fact that we have not been or have not been more specifically engaged in these matters until now, why have you not presented this to us? Now [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. That's the way it is. If you have been very careful today – and again I do not intend to interfere with the work of other parties, each party should take care of itself, but it is important that we work together to be constructive, and I think we all agree – today has been one very quick discipline. Because in NSA they showed that they can think with their heads and that they also have their own pride and some of their own posture, the other side came with a kyle, and I'll say media, tuff. This is essentially unacceptable for you to come by the government and then here what you want to discipline the other Members, even coalition, in some way, in one way or another. Before that, Mrs Slug explained very well to you what is essentially the point of the National Assembly, or of being a Member, as well as the Constitution itself. You know, you've been here a long time, and you've known things, so we're not going to discuss this right now. I think it's right not to add this matter, or if it's mandatory or optional, but that's another story again. If you have been careful, the current Information Commissioner and former Information Commissioners have very clearly taken the view on this proposal that this is essentially unconstitutional or very ethical and otherwise controversial. Also, the Legislative and Legal Service – I don't know if anyone has mentioned this today, because I had some other obligation but I wasn't here in DZ – said she, warned that it was mandatory to collect sensitive personal data in violation of the Constitution, and suggested that the collection of data on nationality and religion be turned into optional, what you did then. So you've already insisted that this is mandatory. Because today we have constantly heard that this is all optional and so on. In fact, it was meant to be mandatory. We need to clear that up, too. It was essentially considered that these data required in this case would be mandatory data to be submitted in the event of a residence application or in an administrative unit. Also, the positions we get from the Legal and Legislative Service, where I have to admit that they are really trying and working 100 an hour when you come from the Government, you are often discrediting that this is wrong and that it is wrong and you do not agree with this. In fact, we have already experienced that they did not agree with what we have proposed, and then we did not jump into the luft and do everything alive, some drama here in the National Assembly. It is right that today it has been shown that the NSIs and SMC have shown some attitude, a state-of-the-art attitude, and that this must be respected. As Government representatives, you have no right to discipline anyone here in the National Assembly, nor your coalition partners at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of discussers. Anybody else want to discuss this point? [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Violeta Tomic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. We talked about hate speech, what is hate speech, and what is not hate speech. The worst part is, you know, the path to hell is pressed for good purposes. So you can talk about people in a very curly and sophisticated way, and by doing so, you can very much reduce their rights. Or should I put it more specifically: it is allowed to steal in Slovenia today, but it is not allowed for a Member in Parliament to say that it is being stolen; it is allowed to have nationalistic, even fascist, if the Member mentions it, but it is an hate speech. But it's not the hate speech of someone who speaks well of patriotism, which is covered up by nationalism. For the patriot loves his country, but he also respects others, and in general the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Two days ago, we had a disgraceful anniversary of the erasion. The 29th anniversary of the disappearance of the people and our current Prime Minister of the government in his vehement style said: "It was some cleaners and such, while others walked, some officers on them." You know how many injustices, how many were erased, how many children their lives were destroyed, and how many honest Slovenian citizens who are like this. [[shows with gesture]] Taken citizenship? Why? Because of nationalism, and by no means because of patriotism. You're no less patriotic if you respect others. And since my predecessor has already spoken about the constitution – this government is so fond of beating the constitution, it is so fond of presenting itself as the only saving power that is not important to it or to the law or to the constitution. It establishes all parallel institutions, because it is clear that people do not like them, but 20% of them, of course, have support. And you set up your national agency instead of national television media, you have a parallel school system, parallel to everything. Article 41 of the Constitution states that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has the right to freedom of conscience. I really don't know what kind of information it is to register a permanent residence as a religion. Who cares? It's a very intimate thing, you know. If a person is a believer, it is his personal matter, not the belongings of a sect that will then extend it, or vice versa, will cause discrimination. That's very sensitive data. And if we respect ourselves, we must also respect the fellow man who came to Slovenia and assure him, I have previously heard some kind words from that side, a decent life, a decent payment in the Republic of Slovenia for honest work. The SNS and President Jelinčič, very noble, received more than 10 Albanians reported at their address in Bleiweis, at 130 declared pieces of weapons which boasted that he was safe, which was supposed to be a direct reason for introducing this law or amendments. More than 10 — How much is it? Is that 12 or 15? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u151	Just a moment, Mrs. Tomić, I'm sorry. Mr Ivanuša, please, if you do not yell over the hall, but report to the debate if you want to talk about anything, not when someone is discussing it. Excuse me, Mrs. Tomić, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. So much for democracy. When you say something that our rescue extreme right-wingers don't like, they get aggressive. Listen. And when Raj from Sab spoke, I heard a voice from behind that disturbed us who wanted to hear a different opinion. What is democracy, what is Parliament? It is that we debate here and confront opinions, and each of us represents our own voters. When a Member is not respected, his complete electoral base is not respected, it is said that the citizens of Slovenia are not respected. And that's why they get beaten up in the streets when they want to say anything against this government. Here, you know, we're very far from democracy and we're sinking into a period we don't want. The law on the registration of permanent residence. I've never heard of it, really not to be called at my address without being asked as a hostess. One who suddenly discovers more than 10 applicants at his address — let him first ask how this happened. Not to make drama out of it. As in the burning of Reichstag, those who are innocent always blame themselves. And this is again the reason for the defeat against the weakest, innocent, unjust, as it was 29 years ago – the shameful removal of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a stain we'll never wash, no matter how many people get compensation. Here you mentioned several times the taxpayers – they were paid by the taxpayers of Slovenia and John Janša was the first to be signed. Sir, who always costs us so much that poor citizens and taxpayers do not get us out of this for 10 years! Will we again be brought before the Court of Human Rights? A statement by John Janša at a meeting here in the National Assembly in 2004 at the end of the year. The second anniversary was yesterday: “The soldiers and some illiterate forces who said they did not know that it was necessary to arrange it. And now all these tens and more thousands of those who have left with the defeated army are hiding behind these." “Shame, shame, shame” would be said by the SDS Member, but I will not name her, because we all know. This is happening again today. For every time John Janša is taken to power, we have human rights violations, first-class and second-class violations, which he is talking about all the time, by knowing who are first-class – a narrow circle around him, and we are all unfortunately second-class and are targets of media discrimination, threats, hate speech, disrespect here too, within the National Assembly. The easiest thing, of course, is to point your finger at others. A colleague of Irgle's would say: “You are projecting!” That's what you do. You project, but very skillfully, Goebbels would be very pleased with you, and we in the opposition would not. We will strongly oppose us in Polish today. Poland, which violates human rights in all areas. But now you'll also have to say sexual orientation if you want to apply to an address? And we will have discrimination by religion, discrimination by sexual orientation, discrimination by skin color. How else can we discriminate? In the end, we'll be like some Dalmatian island where they married each other and they're hereditaryly sick people. The purest race of Slovenians – let your genetic cells be examined and you will not find pure Slovenian blood in any one, because it does not exist. Discrimination after a hard-on and soft-ass, discrimination by you could be listed. [[…]] Some of us face this discrimination every day, and believe that living in such a country is not easy for those who are not members of the SDS and some of their satellites. That's what I'm gonna say. In the shadow of Janez Janša you can also – but now I may use a term that you will not like – a criminal. Is that hate speech now? I don't know. But you can actually deal with crime, you can be a tax advisor who is expelled from a country, specifically Bosnia and Herzegovina, you can have a whole bunch of processes behind you, you can get a whole bunch of things out of your mind, but you're protected like a polar bear. And the polar bears are no longer protected, because the polar ice melts and the poor feed there, and they have no food. But this is also the government of climate change detractors, so even the parable of the polar bear does not hold this moment and I apologize deeply. The bear, not the government. Once again, your discredit is not acceptable to Europe, to the European Union, not to Slovenia, such as the democratic member of the community of nations. I don't know if you went to Austria and saw how many migrant workers and how many different races and religions walk the streets. If the SDS were to measure, they would probably all be put in some ghettos and walk themselves purebreds in Austrian noses and go jogging in the streets. Or I don't know, did you go to London? What a variety of people there, confessions! And Paris! And this is where we're going to get married because it's what? Someone reported to the lawmaker's address. I don't buy it, you know. I'm not buying! I don't buy that someone behind the back of the owner or the host of the household could report it. More than 10 — What Does It Mean? And that's why we criminalize people who are different religions. As previously said, Slovenia has no employees. You like to speak against, I don't know, the Southerners, the Bosnians, anything. Know that they have built us a homeland — roads, factories. There are jobs that Slovenian workers have never wanted to do. Unfortunately, we have a labor force — unfortunately or fortunately, because these people are forced from even more difficult circumstances to leave and look for bread here, and here they put them in some vans and sell them as cattle, an unjust animal. They put them in a van and take them to a construction site, from a construction site to a warehouse where they sleep, and these people want to help their families. That's disrespect. Until the European Union comes to an agreement on a single payment, this exploitation will take place and this mixing will take place. And also our humility towards the West, because we produce cheaper car parts if we do not lower the minimum wage, but employers will get away, and we are competing in this stampede down to who will offer the cheaper labour. The Chinese don't want to work for free anymore. They respect themselves and their workers very well and raised their economy and society. And we are competing in who will provide cheaper labour and how far we can go to slavery. To lawlessness and slavery, which, with respect for human rights, respect for labour rights, respect for environmental standards, with our constitution, even with patriotism, has absolutely nothing to do with it. So please don't abuse words that should mean something good and noble for dirty purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, clear evidence and witness, you have been abusing the Rules of Procedure for more than 15 minutes at this time, since you have not spoken a single word about the two amendments under discussion. Therefore, Madam President, allow me to answer the question, despite what the Member has said. Until you, honourable Member, entered this Chamber, no one spoke and spoke the words of the Albanians. No one has said a word about what other nationalities! You opened the question about the Albanians, you started talking about the Albanians here. What do Albanians have to do with this law?Oh, my God! Nothing. What do his Albanians have to do with this law? Nothing. Jelinčič also has the right, if he owns a large enough house, to have a temporary or permanent residence in accordance with the law of the declared Albanians. This law and these amendments speak of preventing further abuses. So far, none of the state authorities has proved that if Mr Jelinčič had registered Albanians in his residence, he would have abused any law. You mentioned Janez Janša several times, deleted. Janez Janša didn't make up the deleted. I was alone in Parliament. If you don't know, I'll tell you now. There were 30 signatures for the referendum and we had a referendum. This was the people's will of the Slovenian nation and of all those who have Slovenian citizenship, not of Janez Janša. You've also said the words: a whole bunch of processes. I don't know who you meant by "a whole bunch of processes". If you mean me, I don't have a single trial. If you mean me, no trial in my case is obsolete. If you think of anyone else, he has a name. Everyone has a name and a surname in this country, and everyone has a reason for being able to answer you. Don't be upset or disappointed if I, too, on behalf of the Government as Secretary of State, respond to you at a given time. I'm defending this government, defending the constitution, defending legality, justice. The law must be adopted in such a way that it will be fair and treat everything equally regardless of which nationality you belong to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] This too — no matter what religion he confesses. The law must be the same for all and, above all, we must respect it all equally, whether we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or are citizens of third countries. There's only one constitution. It is unfortunate, however, that those of us who were willing to fight for this country in 1991 respect this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, let me first remind you that I am [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Secretary of State, I'm talking to you. If you refrain from talking over the hall. If anyone can judge whether he is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is me or the current President and not you as the representative of the Government, who are here to represent the Government's position. Therefore, please refrain from commenting in the future on who is violating the Rules of Procedure and who is not. I'll be the judge of that, at least when I'm in charge of the session. As for the debate of your predecessor, Mrs Violete Tomić, there was no violation of the agenda. It is true, however, that, like previous debaters, from Mr Grims to Mr Verbic, she has afforded a broader debate, which is also allowed in the first amendment, so your intervention was totally inappropriate and unworthy. I now have a procedural proposal from Mrs Violeta Tomić. Let me warn you, we have strict rules. If you violate a procedural proposal, I will be forced to give you a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u156	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal was indeed to warn you. Thank you for warning him. The Lord felt challenged and personally hurt, it's called when you step on your tail, you whine. I didn't name him. It's true that every perp has a name and a last name, but the deleted ones didn't have one. And 30 signatures are not the human will to wipe out citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u157	Mrs. Tomic, this is already a replica, so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u158	Yes, thank you for warning him. I find it unacceptable to say that they fought for Slovenia in 1991 — I too fought for Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u159	Mrs. Tomic, thank you very much. Mrs Tomić, I have warned you not to abuse the procedural proposal, so I must give you a reminder. Because you abused a procedural proposal. We continue the debate. We've got two more interviewers reported. The first is Mr Alexander Reberšek, followed by Mr Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u160	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. This government is because you didn't want to take responsibility in Levica. I kind of understand you. It is easier in the opposition to collect political points than in the government, to work in the coalition. That is why your seats are questioned, with which you spend lies and nonsense. I tell citizens that it doesn't matter what you say in Levica, because if you wanted to do what you say, you'd go to the government. Today's bill on residence registration solves the issue of so-called fictitious residence applications. The past governments have not heard that this issue is being addressed, that is a fact. This government is working. This government is working again. By amending the law we have drafted in the government coalition, this will no longer happen what has happened so far, that there are 547 people registered at one address, and there will be no more mass abuse of social transfers by foreigners on the basis of a fictitiously declared residence. I believe that the law on residence registration will be adopted today, and I believe that this will also prevent the abuse of social transfers, as many who have been fictitiously registered in these places have benefited from social transfers, even though they have not actually lived in these facilities. I find it unacceptable, totally unacceptable, to exploit all these mechanisms of the Slovenian social state and the Slovenian health system through fictitious residence applications. Recently, I spoke to one of the mayors from Savinja Valley, who also reminded me of this practice of foreigners that it was necessary to introduce surface standards for the number of applications to the size of the usable area of the apartment, and that is exactly what we did in this coalition, in this government. The actions count. At the time of the notification, the administrative unit in the official records will also have to verify the destination of the facility, the usable area of the facility and the number of persons registered in the address. The surface standards will thus be laid down in the sub-legal act. In New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the reintroduction of local jurisdiction in the application of both permanent and temporary residences, as we believe that local officials are the ones who know the most about the situation in their environment and will take the most into account local circumstances. This means that registration of residence will no longer be possible anywhere in Slovenia, but it will have to be arranged on the competent administrative unit. One of the more frequent abuses in the application of residence is when, for example, he has failed to register residence in one administrative unit, he goes to another administrative unit, he can also go to a completely different end of Slovenia, and he makes a residence application there. Although these problems are constantly being pointed out, many mayors, the media warn, and the Slovenian public about all these problems, there has simply been no hearing in this country to solve this problem. The problem of applying for permanent and temporary residences has a long beard, for a long time because of fictitious applications, our state budget has been damaged because they are bound to the application, both temporarily and permanently, by the right to social transfers. I told you before, this government works, this government solves problems, one by one. This is also evident after the length of the meeting of the National Assembly. I recall that the meetings, when the Government was in charge of the previous Marjan Sarec mandate, lasted only three days, of which one day was a matter of question, since we have not adopted as much legislation as we are now adopting. Today’s February session, which is in March, will take about a week to begin next week. One fine proof that this government is working in this country. We're working, this government is working, this coalition is working, I'm just afraid we're gonna run out of time to correct all your mistakes or all your laws that you haven't even opened. And one of them is today, which we are dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Just for intermezzo. Mr Reberšek, given that you said at the beginning of your discussion that the Left is wasting lies and nonsense, I am simply reminding you kindly. However, I will not restrict such a speech because it seems to me that this is your opinion, you can express it, but it is true that the leader of your group always protests when a Member claims to be lying to another Member, so I suggest that they discuss each other's expression at the meetings of the National Assembly. One last debater. Mr. Jani Ivanuša, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't mean to come by, but all those actors who just debated - there's no one in here anymore, so it's hard to deal with them now or behind them. There's no Mr. Reich, there's no Left, I'm sorry to tell them what I think. I'm not like that. Everyone just left the hall and it's hard to talk if they're not there. Madam President, I am also disappointed by your management of this part of the session, because it was just that all your predecessors warned that they should stick to the amendments, but they were talking about the penguins, about the Eskimos, about the deleted ones, I do not know what everything about the labour force in Germany, Slovenia, Austria, so I do not know why not everyone who spoke would remind them to talk about what we are talking about today is the Law on Application of Residence. This is what we are talking about, not some general topics that are on the agenda. I'm very disappointed with your partiality, which you're doing here in the National Assembly, but that's how I see it through my eyes. But the fact that there are so many opinions, I understand that I don't know, I say so. [[…]] If a person gets drunk, he sobers up and then he doesn't fool around, but I'm afraid no one drinks here anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanusha, for your discussion. I have listened to you carefully, I accept your criticism, and you have every right to have such an opinion on my leadership. It is true, however, that you did not mention the content of this amendment, which we are talking about, in your own debate. So if we are critical, let us first be critical of ourselves. And an explanation. All debaters or Members may also follow the meeting from their offices, so that if they so wish, they can respond to any discussion by the predecessor if they so assessed. But as I say, it's your free will. I have a few more interests to discuss. Given that several debaters are ready to debate, I am opening the list. Please sign in. Two of them signed up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, followed by Mrs Elena Zawadlav Ušaj, gets the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Vice President. We heard a lot today. I admit, I have listened, I have only followed the debate of all Members. Believe me, apart from a few discussions, I'm a little surprised at how much an intolerance there is in individuals who, in fact, cannot control themselves and, in fact, reissue themselves every time they hide behind a word called patriotism, a deluded Slovenian, but a purebred, I don't know what nonsense I've been listening to all of today. We're talking about a change of residence. That's all there is to it. What was, of course, a proposal, which we have on the table, especially the SNS Amendment – although they are no longer in the Chamber, I will speak, unlike my colleague Jani, who does not understand the rules of procedure but of course parliamentary practice for some time. I must express my deep regret that in the 21st century, in 2021, two numbers were accidentally covered. Some are still thinking that we should label people and label them as someone wanted them to be marked from the 32nd year forward in the previous century. I must say, until today, I have not received a reasonable argument from the government. I did not get a smart argument from the government, simply because when changing residence they need information about nationality. I just don't get it. Why do they need information about who runs the household? What for? What does this have to do with a change of residence? Without misinterpretation, I absolutely disagree with the fact that more than 50 and 100 of them are registered in one permanent residence, even smaller numbers are incomprehensible on 50 square meters. We know where this is going, and we all know why it was done. Therefore, the amendment itself, or the amendment of the law itself, was good in order to make certain safeguards so that this would no longer occur. But I don't understand what they're going to do. This is simply not answered by anyone in this debate today. Especially when there was a debate – I think that Janja Slug's colleague, who discussed it, was also able to remember how the data on nationality and religion were collected in the Slovenian census. A remarkable list that collected interesting data. I agree with those who have said that it is the remains of the socialism of the former country, which has had citizens seriously under control for other reasons, precisely because of the meditarian intolerance, because it was the most feared, and in this way they have tried to manage the situation in the space. But in changing residences – well, I don't understand that. Why is it not necessary to complete this information when I obtain a driver’s license? Why is it not necessary to complete this information when I obtain a permit for a firearm? Why shouldn't I write that information when I need a passport? Why don't I need that information when I get a kid into school when I get a student to go to college? Why don't I get this information when I ask for different forms of social assistance at the Social Work Centre? Why is it that when I get divorced, I don't need to give information about what kind of nationality I am? But I need this to change my permanent residence. Just tell me one reason. Article 38 of the Constitution states: “The protection of personal data is ensured. The use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection shall be prohibited. The collection, processing, purpose of use, control and protection of the confidentiality of personal data shall be laid down by law. Everyone has the right to be informed of the personal data collected relating to him and the right to judicial protection in the event of their abuse.” Now you explain to me by the Government, the Secretary of State, what this information will be to you and where you have the legal basis for getting this information. What for? I'd be happy to hear from you what your government law enforcement said. What did she say? Does she have a legal basis? I would really like to have this information and hear what my legal service in the government is. At the same time, I would like to remind you of what some have been doing for several years: “the conscience, we propose, and the Constitutional Court should decide whether it is constitutional or not, and we are not here to judge what is constitutional and what is not constitutional.” Excuse me, if there is little doubt that something is constitutionally controversial, we must have a high degree of sustainability so as not to force something that is contrary to the Constitution. In this case, in this debate, it is more than clear on these arguments that it is necessary to refrain from such behaviour in order to collect such data! Because, in fact, I will understand differently – that we are really becoming, but I am not agreeing to tell my country that the police state is just thinking of it, but – that it is about collecting data for the needs of another logic created by this President of the Government and has repeatedly made it public. He would like to have a different republic, another republic where citizens will have to report on what they are, where they are, what definitions they are and so on. Is that what this is about? Because if this is the purpose, then we can all get out of here very quickly, because this is not meant for what we have all been assigned — to protect the Constitution, the law and not the last rights we have gained, and this is that we do not intervene in an unnecessary way where it does not belong. The government has gone so far as to support such proposals proposed by the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I hope that I will not be again insulted and warned by the President. I don't understand you. But I honestly don't understand you. If I answer you, you won't understand me either. I don't care. I said clearly and loudly at that time on the working body that the Government does not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. What did you say here today two minutes ago? That we said otherwise. That's not true. It is true, however, that we have made it clear to the magnetogram that we want to actively participate in coalition coordination in the amendment adopted as an amendment to the working body. And we're in. If you want to make a comparison, what is the difference between the proposal that we have proposed and the Slovenian National Party, make it. You have one, and probably your fellow Servant will also give you that proposal that we have proposed, and you will get a comparison, and you will also quickly find out who is right, who is wrong. You're wrong. You're really wrong. We have said that we do not support that amendment, and that is why it has not been accepted. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party on the working body was not adopted. However, Mr Grimes' proposal as a working body's home proposal was adopted. I'm sorry, you probably don't understand me, and even less your colleagues, but that's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u167	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u168	The whole debate is going on today very clearly and it must be understood, of course, that I have not received any clear assurances from the Government today and no clear arguments against which it actually opposes. But the fact is, there's nothing I can really expect from this government. For by his actions and not least by his public appearance, the President of the Government is more than clear about what should have happened. If you have the power to influence your Prime Minister, do as much as you can to prevent him from acting that way. But the messages are clear. So don't convince me today what I understand and what I don't. Otherwise, you must understand something — what has been reported in the debate itself. This is because there was no response from the Government to all the messages that were made when the temporary or permanent residence was changed to what the SNS proposed. I thank you for saying today that you do not agree with this, but only what Mr Grimes has proposed is not to be supported. Here you have one basic problem – to support things that are unconstitutional. And do it without a problem. But time will tell. Because anyway, you know, there's no eternal thing, and you won't be forever. I don't speak to you as Secretary of State. I speak as a government. But time will tell us who was right and where they were going. The trails are leaking, I agree with you, the magnetograms remain, and it will, of course, say the most about it. And they will judge who was right and who was wrong. You haven't convinced me personally, but I'll be happy to see if I ever get this chance, because I don't have this option most of the time, what the Government's Law Office thinks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The text is first received by Mrs Elena Zavadlav Usaj, and then by Mr Branko Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nicely greeted, fellows and fellows! I didn't mean to come to the debate, but because I listened to how this debate was going on, I might have made a comparison because there was a question about this control over the application of residence, why it was even necessary. However, I will draw parallels when years ago, if you can remember, there were the same abuses in the registration of companies as we are hearing today when we register the residence of natural persons. As long as it has not changed in the Law on Economic Companies, the law itself states that, in addition to all other documentation, those who register a legal person must also submit a certified declaration by the owner allowing the registration of the company at this address, until then, there have been mass abuses and no one could prevent them. Furs knew about the abuses, and companies were massively registered on the addresses and owners were not even aware that anyone was going to sign in, let alone know until they started to answer for the unpaid accounts and there were executions. Then it began to wonder how these abuses could ever occur, and legislation changed. Since then, there have been very few such applications since the owners had control of the applications. The same problem we face today, or other consequences. Why is it even good that this change is being adopted today in the National Assembly? Because this is not about what was wanted to be shown by the opposition, but it is here on the one hand primarily to protect human rights, which also belongs to those who migrate to Slovenia, so that they are not exploited here. Today, we have listened to how they are exploited and under what conditions they then live and work. That's why we protect them in this way. On the other hand, as Members and representatives of the people, we must also protect that there is no abuse of Slovenian legislation. As a result of the abuse resulting from the registration of residence, as we have heard, this continues in the field of social transfers and other rights arising from the application of residence. So it is not only possible here to look uniformly at what has been said that we wish to stigmatise or otherwise treat those who would apply for a stay in Slovenia. That's not true. We want to enable them to stay and work here under the same conditions as we do Slovenians and Slovenes, and at the same time that the Slovenian state has control over the fact that there are no abuses and that, as a result, the money does not run out of the state budget. As for the data on nationality, I see no difficulty in not telling anyone what nationality it is. Especially because it shows that he belongs to a nation. I don't know why we'd have trouble writing this down in a residence application, because the only thing that happens when you apply is the central register of the population where all the data is collected. Therefore, it is possible that it would make sense to register in this register. This is because all the other data is then dragged into the other registers on the basis of this register. Of course, you know that if someone actually went to register a car or to obtain another permit, they would not have a nationality record because it would only be recorded for certain purposes in the Central Population Register. So I really don't see why we're getting involved here, because that would actually see the picture of our country by nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. When your respectable colleague Möderndorfer is silent, then I can begin. Previously, so vehemently stated, what is unconstitutional is that what is now enshrined in the law is unconstitutional. That's not true. Whoever says that should go check it out. I already said in the introduction, what was the constitutional caselaw of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when these matters were dealt with in the past years. For such a provision, meaningly the same, had already been in law and had been in law for more than a decade, and therefore there was no problem; no article had ever been annulled by the Constitutional Court. As far as I know, it never said anything to be wrong with the one. What is the essential difference? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear President, can you warn Mr Möderndorfer that this is going across the board?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u173	Please, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, don't disturb the speaker when he speaks in the hall. Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u174	What is Mr Möderndorfer's error? He talks about the SNS amendment all the time. The initial amendment of the SNS was fundamentally different in one of the very important constitutional points, requiring a declaration in all the indents as required. Since then the applicants at the meeting did not agree that they would have submitted it differently without volunteering, then we gave it as an amendment to the committee in the form I proposed. That means no one has to make a statement, but that's a possibility. He has the right, therefore, to say what his nationality is, which is his mother tongue and so on. That's why it's so easy to say it's unconstitutional, stupid. Since the Constitutional Court has left those provisions in its constitutional case law for 10 years as they were in the past. That's what you're saying. There really shouldn't be a problem here. Because it is so manipulated — why is this necessary? If anyone with a name and surname or against the will of a public publication were to make it clear that this is an abuse, but people, this would make it impossible for the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, is misleading the public, anyone who mentions anything like that. As Mrs Ushieva said before, of course these things are not visible. There's somewhere to start. Since you have asked the question why this is not the case, it is most logical to mention these things first when you apply for permanent residence, when you move into citizenship, and so on. Then we can supplement other legislation to make it appropriate, but somewhere we need to start. And what is the point of this story? If you want to run a smart policy, you need the right information. One of the relevant data is also a smart policy on population, with regard to immigration, if you want, regarding the maintenance of the constitutional basis of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Slovenian nation. But today, this data is only manipulated because it's not there, because no one is recording it in any form. Here we just wanted to open up the possibility that these data would be collected to allow for proper statistical processing. I see nothing controversial, on the contrary, very smart and good was that tweet of the Prime Minister who warned that this information should be kept in order to lead the right policy. How do you make good, if you want, strategies, can military or entrepreneurial strategies? First of all, you need to understand where you are, based on real, measurable data, as we wanted to collect with this amendment, with this solution, which is now covered in the text of the law itself and is unfortunately proposed for deletion. There's somewhere to start. Once you have this information, then you can adjust the policy. The processing of this data would only be by the Bureau of Statistics, and no one could ask for information against his will. You know that it completely prevents any such abuse of the existing legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why fear with this deception, and this grave deception to the public, and intimidation with some unconstitutionality. Just as these things have now been proposed as voluntary, the matter is constitutionally and reliably indisputably indisputable. Anyone who wants to tell anyone who doesn't want to, doesn't. In that amendment presented by the Government, specifically Mr Kangler, it was said that everyone should also be particularly warned that it would not happen, that he did not know this right, that he did not have to be made clear about anything in any section where it was not what was obligatory. So it's none of them, but no possible abuse would have occurred. And not with the present solution. Then we can change, we can supplement the legislation, but first we need to start somewhere, and the beginning is what is now written in the text of the law. Once again, I personally strongly support what the Government is proposing, and I will personally strongly oppose and vote against this being removed from the law. If we deceive ourselves by not collecting adequate data, not knowing how many of us there are, or still holding on to, to what extent is the constitutional basis of the State itself enshrined in the Constitution, are we doing any good? No, we do our own harm, cheat ourselves and next generation. That's really it. However, I must say that I am extremely sad about the debate that has been here today, because if I counted the number of votes and debates, the only thing I can understand from this is that such a text of the Constitution, such as it is now that Slovenia is a state of all its citizens and citizens, which is based on the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination, would obviously not be able to vote in this national assembly at all. Not after this debate, I'm sure. This is a tragedy, and I must say that those who, in any way in the matter of the relationship between the State and the Slovenian people, have made fun of and do not understand this constitutional basis, are not, as one Member once said, a state symbol, but are a state disgrace. It is necessary to realize its roots, to build on them, to build on the value of Slovenian independence, to build on the Slovenian constitution, which is good. And, of course, the rule of law must be respected in such a way that it will apply to all and to all in the same way. Because also, if you want, the Slovenian Constitution specifically and explicitly defines it. And this is also true when it comes to applying for permanent residence. There can be no exception here, there must be no one in a privileged or deprived position. And no one can use any argument then to abuse the letters of the law, as it is written. The law has to be made clear, prevent abuse. Such a proposal is before us, and I fully support it. And, of course, ensure that all, including administrative units, will implement this law in a consistent manner. That control will be where it needs to be, so there won't be any abuse. And they must not be, because every abuse of law and law and order is paid by taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u176	Thanks again for saying that. I will just complete what was then asked once again by the Member after my discussion, let us say once again what it is, why it is good that the data on nationality is also collected. Because one day we're going to have to re-do the census just because of this data that we're going to be missing in the central population register. Then, at the expense of this, we will carry out the entire inventory and at the same time spend the taxpayer's money, which I think is very unwise for the whole digitisation we want to introduce in all areas. Because we look ahead, we look long - term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. Mr. Secretary, I don't think the government has any more time. [[advertising from the hall]] Do you have any more? Good. Vojko Starović has the floor. Then I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u178	Now there was a lot of talk about data that we were supposed to draw from. But if these data are such that someone can put them in or not, I think such a database is useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary shall have the floor as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Given the timing, I'm going to point out that these data are not irrelevant. 28th Article of the current law, which we adopt, is a fundamental basis for this data to be needed by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for its activities and activities. And this is a fundamental foundation and also a need.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the leftist Group and the amendment of the SMC and NSI sent groups. The amendment SMC and NSI have been amended and you have it on the e-club. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on early relief measures and the removal of the consequences of the cvid-19 within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with their first signed Mr Matjaz Han. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u182	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The following week, more precisely March 12th, will be one year after the government first declared an epidemic, which then lasted until the end of May last year. After the end of the first wave, we spent a relatively peaceful summer period with a smaller number of infections until October of last year, when we were faced with the rapid spread of the virus among the population. The rapid spread of the virus has also resulted in a rapid increase in the number of covid-19 patients requiring hospital care in regular or intensive wards. An important milestone for growth in the number of patients was reached on 4 November 2020 when the number of visible patients in Slovenian hospitals first exceeded the number of thousands and persisted until the beginning of February of this year. The health system had to adapt quickly to this pressure. The covid-19 disease epidemic has only further burdened health workers and homes for older citizens who were overloaded before the outbreak of the virus. The human resources deficit is increasing in health care and nursing homes, and employees are overburdened, exhausted, and burned out. In addition, health workers have been confronted with increasing verbal and physical violence by patients or their relatives throughout the epidemic, which also endangers their physical and mental health. On the basis of the fifth package of intervention measures, health and social security workers are entitled to an allowance of 30% of the hourly basic wage for direct work with covid-19 patients or users of services to which the infection has been confirmed or suspected. The proposed amendment to the fifth anti-Koronic Law of the PKP5 considers that employees in health and social institutions deserve to be shown more respect for their work and the profession they carry out during these difficult times. Therefore, we propose to increase the staff allowance for direct work with covid-19 patients to 65%, limiting the doubling of this and the crisis allowance under the collective contract for the public sector in the same way as was regulated in the first wave of the epidemic under the CAP3. For employees we also propose two awards in the form of an extraordinary premium payment for the collective additional pension insurance and one additional tourist voucher. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are even more confident that our proposal justifies your support, because the housing organizations at the peak of the epidemic at the beginning of October 2020 have addressed the competent ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the title – Call for Help: we can no longer do so. It says that for more than half a year, selfless and extremely self - sacrificing, sometimes at the edge of power, they save lives and care for the most endangered. Despite their protection, employees are at high risk of infection, and working in full protective equipment is extremely difficult and exhausting. It is therefore time, my fellow Members and colleagues, to show more respect for the employees who are fighting the virus in the first battles by paying the appropriate payment for the work done and the special reward. I thank you in advance for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19 submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaž Han. A representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, took part in the work of the Committee. In addition, the representative of the applicants presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said that the existing method of awarding employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients or users suffering from covido-19 was appropriate, which is why they do not support the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, inter alia, that the existence of several legal arrangements in terms of legal certainty was unacceptable. She pointed out that the proposed text of the amendment was not adequately designed, opaque and unclear, due to the merging of the various contents in one article. The representative of the State Council said that the State Council supported the proposal for a law and drew attention to the difficulties encountered in addressing applications for reimbursement of allowances paid under intervention legislation; and to the fact that the proposed increase in allocated leave days or the possible payment of unused days would not have achieved its purpose. This was followed by a discussion of the members and members of the Committee. In the debate, the members and members of the committee on the draft law considered that in the amendment workers and workers have been working under very difficult conditions for more than a year and should be properly rewarded. The Committee adopted amendments to the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government apologized at this point because of health problems. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party and Mr Jani Ivanuš have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a parliamentary law, which is particularly likeable, and the content is less. Of course, the opposition can afford such proposals, but we doubt that as a coalition party they would agree to such a proposal. The aim of the law is to ensure fair pay and a remuneration for work carried out in the current situation by employees in health and social health institutions with patients or users with covido-19. This is a rather sensitive topic, since the issue is the new 26 million, which should be devoted to the income and other benefits of employees in health activities. We will not define ourselves in this regard, but point to certain facts. The first information is that according to the Ministry of Public Administration, there are 922 doctors, hospital directors and health care homes among the top thousand employees in the public administration. And that kind of information is no longer a joke. The second information we have is that €89.5 million is allocated to postgraduate education and training of healthcare professionals in the budget for 2021. It's a type of education when the staff has already completed their college. In short, Slovenian health care is a bottomless court. The question is why the efficiency of healthcare services is always measured by money. Money can't buy health. Healthcare professionals should be people with high ethical standards and help the sick. If these persons are closer to the amount of the payment, it would be far more appropriate to reclassify themselves as economists and hire them at some bank or insurance company. The Prime Minister himself said that a good doctor often became a good manager. We believe that the country is investing heavily in health care, as far as the budget is concerned. However, on the other hand, we also have a large group of employees who are also exposed to different risks and who do not receive an allowance for the same work and would receive supplements, for example, in neighbouring Austria. We point out that today, in our society, health is highly valued. For this very reason, people are very susceptible to ever again supporting new financial injections into the health system, but somewhere there is a limit. We cannot continue to invest in health care on the grounds that there is a lack of funds. The funds are sufficient, but in our view they are not properly distributed within health care. Employees should be called to account for these 922 people with extremely high incomes. And that's where the problem comes in, not in the amount of funds that are intended for health care as such. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u188	Thank you so much again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We therefore have before us a bill on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. We will not support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but not because it has been proposed in the opposition party, but because we believe that this content is very well regulated already in the anti-Korona packages, which are intended to exactly pardon and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. In eight anti-Korona packages, we have so far helped both the economy, with more than two billion euros in aid than people, in particular through various solidarity supplements. We're talking about pensioners, students, farmers, we're talking about a baby supplement. At the same time, the government is aware that at the time of the epidemic there are, in particular, those who were already in severe social distress prior to the epidemic. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided a huge number of financial resources in various cases to alleviate social distress. At the same time, we provided a supplement for large families in anti-Korona packages. We are focusing in particular on the need to tackle jobs through various measures in this difficult situation, not only in Slovenia, of course, but also in the world and Europe. And it is because of good decisions, coordinated with the representatives of the economy and to a greater extent also with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council that we have managed to maintain more than 300,000 jobs. However, as regards health care and the existing method of awarding employees in health and social welfare institutions, the competent ministries consider that it is appropriate and does not need new or additional changes. However, we are certainly aware that the work of those who have taken direct care of patients with covido-19 for a year is very difficult, very exhausting and, of course, we are grateful to see both health workers and those who care for the elderly in social security institutions and, of course, do this difficult but at the same time noble work. Long before the outbreak began, we warned the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is a chronic shortage of personnel in both health care and social security institutions, which is even more visible today, during the epidemic. Today, it is also more clear what policy the left governments have been leading in the last ten years, which were unable to build a single home for the elderly at that time, even though spatial capacity was already very lacking in this area at that time. Today, this policy is changing for the good of people. Today, this policy is transforming into building a home and an active employment policy. The government has thus earmarked €26 million for new employment in nursing homes. Care for the elderly is also one of the key priorities of this government, which finally regulates the content that has unfortunately been neglected for years. It is important that we move from words to actions that will undoubtedly improve the situation of the elderly. The creation of the urgently needed demographic fund will also have positive effects for younger generations. Here is an important bridge between the younger and the older generation. Dear Members, we will continue to work for the good of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u190	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Tomorrow will be one year since we had our first confirmed coronary infection in Slovenia, and at that time, life in our beloved country has turned to its head. It's turned upside down because of the epidemic and the government we have. If we can say that the government had a pretty good time dealing with the epidemic at the time of the first wave, we can see that at the time of the second wave, it was all over the line. Failure to prepare for the second wave, the late adoption of unimaginable and disproportionate measures have led us to the disaster we faced towards the end of last year. On the other hand, the government has found time to prepare controversial, harmful measures, which are repeatedly pushed into intervention legislation, in the so-called PKP, for the recruitment and destruction of the country's reputation in the international community. The consequences of the epidemic are to be felt in all sectors. It is extremely difficult, perhaps even the hardest burden of dealing with the epidemic has fallen on health and social workers. This is about employees facing severe additional burdens, they literally burn out every day at work, and they cannot use vacations. So they are doing an exhausting job in very difficult, exceptional circumstances, we can say. Since the outbreak began, the government of Janez Janša has regularly thanked and promised that their efforts will be paid, but to this day they have not paid. So far, the coalition has adopted eight anti-Korona laws. In some cases, allowances are also provided for healthcare and social workers. PKP1 provided for an additional safety and special burden during the epidemic of a maximum of 100 % of the hourly rate of the employee’s basic salary. This seemed very promising on paper, but it was complicated when these supplements were being paid. During the summer, the situation calmed down, with the outbreak of another wave, which caught the government, as I said, unprepared, and with the PKP5, there was a provision for direct work with covidpacients or users for health and social workers only at 30%. Moreover, initially this supplement was envisaged only for the time when the epidemic was not declared in the country but only for a narrower range of beneficiaries. This was in October, when the situation in the country was already quite bad, but the government did not extend the range of beneficiaries until the end of December with the PKP7 alone. In the letter of Marjana Šarca, we believe that the government has not done justice to the health and social welfare workers by means of its actions. We have already proposed a fairer reward for those who deserve it during the consideration of PKP5, PKP6 and PKP7. Our proposals were, of course, rejected, over and over again. For this reason, last November's democratic opposition parties decided to table a proposal on the table. With changes, we want to arrange what John Janša’s government is obviously unable to do — justly reward those who deserve it. Just nice words, thanks or flight planes in our opinion for burnt-out employees in the first battle lines are not enough. They deserve a fairer reward for their sacrificing work. For this reason, we also propose in the opposition an allowance for direct work with covidpacients or users amounting to 65% of the hourly basic wage item of the employee, payment of the one-off premium to the collective supplementary pension insurance of EUR 250, 500 or 1,000. And an additional tourist voucher for these beneficiaries. In addition to the novel, we want to include another category that the government has actually overlooked from the CAP1 to the CAP8; young people. Under our amendment, students working with covidpacients would be entitled to a higher allowance of 65% and an additional tourist voucher. Although the SDS, SMC and NSI coalition on the Committee rejected our proposal, I believe they will reconsider today and will support this today. After all, if we have money in the country for overpaid medical equipment from the first wave or for unreliable rapid tests, I believe that there will be a few million for those who deserve it most. Of course, we will support the proposal of the novel in the Parliamentary Group of the Letters of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With the proposed amendment to the fifth package of intervention measures, we would like to ensure fair pay and reward for employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients or users who are ill with covido-19 in these emergency epidemiological situations. Employees in health care, nursing homes, and other welfare institutions represent our first battle type against the Coronavirus and bear the greatest part of the burden of our joint efforts to overcome the virus as soon as possible and to take care of the covidals as soon as possible. Since the first time the government declared an epidemic one year ago, employees have been working beyond all the scope of the rules laid down in the labour law and the collective agreement. Due to the exceptional circumstances of the management of health and welfare institutions, they do not even have the appropriate means to reward and motivate employees in a fair and appropriate manner, since the current remuneration regime does not take into account the level of physical and mental health of both health and care workers. The health of employees is threatened with several aspects. They work directly with covidolators and users infected with the virus, despite protective equipment, are still at risk of being infected with the virus and suffering from covidolence alone. Health and care staff are also at high risk of stress, as they are increasingly experiencing aggressive verbal attacks and even physical violence, and are also facing an increasing number of violent and conflict-related events in the workplace, endangering their mental health. In addition, they are faced with overload and exhaustion due to the human resource deficit that existed in nursing homes prior to the epidemic. The rapid growth of covidal patients and the higher number of infected persons among the employees themselves have only further increased the workload of those employees who remain in jobs. On the basis of the current rules, employees in health and welfare institutions are entitled to an allowance of 30% of the hourly basic wage for direct work with covid-19 patients or users of services where the infection is to be confirmed or suspected. At the time of the declared epidemic, they are also entitled to a crisis allowance of 65% of the hourly basic wage under the collective agreement. However, even if the government cancels the epidemic today, employees in nursing homes will have to continue to do the same work as at the time of the declared epidemic, with all the risks, stress and burdens listed. This was the case, for example, in the summer and fall times of last year between the first and the second epidemiological waves. Therefore, with respect and respect, we propose to increase the staff allowance for direct work with covid-19 patients to 65%, limiting the doubling of this and the crisis allowance under the public sector collective agreement at the time of the epidemic, in the same way as was regulated in the first wave of the epidemic under the CAP3. For employees we also propose two awards in the form of an extraordinary premium payment for the collective additional pension insurance and one additional tourist voucher. By adopting the proposed amendment to the fifth package of intervention measures, we will thus strengthen the social security of employees who are fighting the first lines of the fight against coronavirus, as we will provide them with a fair payment and a reward for carrying out extremely responsible work in difficult situations. We will also strengthen social solidarity between the population and employees, who are provided with health and care care in Slovenian hospitals, health care homes or nursing homes in times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The new Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19 is somehow a logical continuation of efforts to implement additional anti-Korona measures, which also coincided with the preparation of further anti-Korona laws submitted by the Government at the time of the introduction of the amendment into the legislative procedure. Thus, in the last three months following the submission of the amendment to the CAP5, many other similar solutions have been put in place for students working in health and social welfare institutions, pensioners, farmers and many others who have been most affected by the epidemic. In the last three anti-Korona laws, we have introduced some new measures if I list only some of the relevant measures for today's treatment: funding of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security, an allowance for direct work with covid-19 patients of 30% of the hour base rate for students, students and students who, although working with covid-19 patients in the educational process, have also provided payment for the work done and an additional 30% of the hourly rate of their basic payment. An additional 65% of the hourly wage for working hours in hazardous conditions has also been provided for persons performing work through an external contractor and persons involved in public works. If we go back to the novel under consideration today. The new law provides for, inter alia, a higher allowance for direct work with covid-19 patients who would, in accordance with the proposal, be 65% of the hourly basic wage item, or a supplement adopted at a meeting of the parent committee, not more than 100 % of the hourly basic wage of the employee, including the addition referred to in Article 11(39) of the Collective Contract for the public sector. Here we need to draw attention to what the government has also pointed out that employees working in a red and gray zone are already receiving, for hours, a hazard allowance and a special burden in accordance with the collective agreement, 65% of the hourly basic wage item and 30% of the hourly basic wage item in accordance with the intervention law. Therefore, a total of 95 % of the hourly heading of the basic salary. However, if they are temporarily assigned to work with another employer, they shall receive an additional 30 % of the hourly basic wage item. However, in the case of the payment of the one-time extraordinary premium of the collective additional pension insurance for public servants, it is recalled that all public servants are subject to a single minimum premium of additional pension insurance, plus an additional premium in relation to the completed years of work. The fixing of a one-time extraordinary premium for certain public servants, as proposed by the applicant, would constitute a derogation from the applicable collective supplementary pension scheme, which, according to our assessment, exposes the inequality between these public servants and all other public servants, since all employees of the employer must be included in the collective supplementary pension scheme under the same conditions. We wonder, however, how private health and social security providers may make a fair or comparable payment of the premium to individual supplementary pension insurance if the employees are not included in the collective supplementary pension insurance. PPIZ-2 provides for different entitlements for funds paid into collective supplementary pension insurance and for funds paid into individual supplementary pension insurance, within which a single increase of the savings is possible. This would also put these employees in an unequal position. With regard to an additional voucher in the area of tourism consumption, the aim of such awarding to a narrower group of beneficiaries is raised here, since such a mechanism has been put in place exclusively as an aid to tourism, with all citizens being treated equally; and it has therefore been awarded a voucher in the same amount specifically for adults and especially for children. Therefore, we will not support the Group of the Parties to the modern centre of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Hello! From the beginning of the epidemic until today, anti-Korona laws are being drawn up on sent-off benches. So far, we've dealt with eight of them. Their aim is to mitigate and eliminate the consequences of the epidemic for the economy and the population and to strengthen the public health and care system; that is, the first front in the fight against the virus. The devastating consequences of the epidemic are few. The economy is living on public money injections, poverty among employees is increasing, unemployment has risen by a third from 2019 to 2020. Social hardships and differences between people are deepening. Pressure is increasing, but intervention measures do not follow the needs of the population. According to the Fiscal Council, we spent less than €3 billion on intervention measures by the end of 2020. Of this, the government allocated €1.7 billion to capital and allocated 370 million to workers and the population. That is why, of course, we have signed in Levica a law that we are considering today that can improve this relationship slightly. The public health and care system is on its knees, especially on its knees workers who are burned have been working long shifts in the harsh conditions of the epidemic for one year. In the summer, as a volunteer in a nursing home on my own, I felt how difficult this work was, how it led to physical and mental breakdown; but I did not do it every day. However, health and care workers have been working under these conditions for a year. This is about the workers who contributed the most in this epidemic. It's actually about people who save lives. Many of these workers receive a minimum wage. The basic wages of some do not reach minimum levels at all. For example, they are caregivers, laboratories, paramedics, caregivers, and other poorly paid workers and workers in health and social services. It was precisely due to low wages, poor working conditions and unregulated standards and standards that prior to the current crisis that there was a drastic outflow of staff either to other professions or to other countries where this work was substantially better paid and better working conditions. In Levica, we have therefore always requested, when accepting the PKPs, that the allowance for direct work with assistive patients be measured not as 30 % of the basic salary, but at least as much as 65%, as the collective contract provides for during the epidemic. Since PKP5, we have insisted that the allowance should be higher for workers who meet patients infected with covid-19 every day. In PKP5, we proposed an 85% supplement on a proposal from trade unions in Levica. Let us remember that this supplement in the first wave was 100%. Already in Levica or in the opposition, we have proposed that laboratory workers be included in the workplace. But the government has never really taken into account the fact that they were employees' proposals. That is why, of course, we will support the marriage today. A law extending the recruitment of workers entitled to an allowance for work in the environment where covid-19 is present and which raises this allowance from 30% to 65%. In addition, this proposal proposes an additional tourist voucher for these employees and a one-time additional payment to the added pension insurance, which we welcome. In Levika, we call on Members to support this proposal and to grant fair compensation to employees who have made the most of the actual contribution to the control of the epidemic and the resolution of lives for one year's hard work. These people don't need flying planes, they need all the respect and fair pay for their work. In view of the number of public thanks, given the number of public praises that we often hear in this Chamber, all points to the respect of Members and Members for these professions. It all shows that employees in this critical infrastructure already have this confidence and respect for Members and Members. Today, we can also give them a concrete and just reward for this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering amendments to the CAP5 or the Interim Measures Act to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19. The opposition parties proposed amendments and amendments to the law, which are already already included in the next CAP laws in the vast majority. The bill proposes a reward for employees in health and social welfare institutions who work directly with patients or users who suffer from coronary disease or who are suspected of covido-19 infection. Employees in health and social welfare institutions have been on the front lines of the epidemic all the time, and they certainly deserve to be properly rewarded for their work. We have already taken care of this with the additions in the PKP packages, so today's opposition proposal is not justified. Employees working in a red and gray zone receive a hazard allowance and special burdens in a risky situation under the Public Sector Collective Treaty of 65% of the hourly basic wage item, and receive an additional 30% of the hourly basic wage item under the Law on Temporary Measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19. In total, employees who work directly with obituary patients or users receive an allowance of 95 % of the hourly basic wage. In addition, in cases where workers are temporarily assigned to work with another employer due to working needs, they receive an additional 30 % of the hourly basic wage. Therefore, in our view, the additive system is properly regulated. In addition, in accordance with the CAP6, these additives are not included in the tax base for 2020 and 2021. However, the opposition proposal regarding the payment of the collective supplementary pension premium in relation to the number of hours that employees have made in direct contact with patients or users suffering from covido-19 cannot be implemented under the regulation of this area. The proposal also provides a monetary allowance for students and students who carry out practical education or occasional or temporary work of students and students, but we have already arranged this with the PKP8. Students and students are entitled to an allowance for direct work with covid-19 of 30 % of the hourly rate of their basic payment. We believe that this part of the legislation is properly regulated and that students and students are both rewarded in the same way as regular employees in the case of work for direct work with co-workers or users. The public impact of the changes in the law is EUR 26.1 million, and those who like to tell us how wasteful we are of money to over-indebt ourselves are proposing changes to share more money. Of course, we agree that people need to be helped and supported, but in our view, we need to make sure that they retain jobs, as we are aware that only a post-crisis economy will be able to mitigate the long-term consequences of the health crisis. In New Slovenia – we will not support the Christian democratic amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In health care and in nursing homes, the situation has escaped the government's control. Health care is already drowned at the primary level so that patients do not even get a basic diagnosis. In nursing homes, it is even worse where our elderly fellow citizens pay for this crisis with their lives. That's unacceptable. The only ones who still hold this health care somehow above the water in an almost unsustainable situation are employees in these institutions. The new PKP5, which we signed in the SAB, refers to these groups that literally keep our health and social welfare system up to date. With almost continuous exposure to covid-19 infection, they face daily overload, with a shortage of personnel, their personal life is pushed to the sidelines to help. It is also right that we help them in some way – so the new PKP5. We increase the allowance for direct work with observant patients, add the possibility of paying a one-time extraordinary premium of collective additional pension insurance and add the possibility of using an additional tourist voucher. We also did not forget about students and students who perform practical education or occasional or temporary work in order to receive a cash allowance for cods. Although an important addition on the basis of our calls was provided by the 7th anti-korona package and we have deleted it with amendments, in the SAB Group we will be happy to support the opposition amendment, which also provides for students and students with an allowance for direct work in the covid-19 environment of 65% of the hour line of their basic payment and an additional tourist voucher. Nevertheless, it seems that the government, with all these anti-Korona packages, somehow forgets the key segment of employees in the first place in health care, while paying itself a lot of much higher supplements. So much for saving. And Janša's government is also taking measures from under the curtain under covid-19 that have nothing to do with the resolution of the epidemic. Moreover, these measures may cause even more damage than the epidemic itself. We are witnessing this modus operandi in every proposal for anti-korona action. Government priorities are obviously somewhere else. But in the SAB Group, we believe that even in difficult times it is possible to rule in a more reasonable and acceptable way, so we will be supporting the proposal of the novel, which puts first those who are the advocates of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the so-called PKP5, tabled by the opposition in mid-November, focuses only on so-called covid plugines. The proposal was made quite wide, extending the range of beneficiaries to this supplement and also providing additional benefits in the form of an additional tourist voucher, an additional annual leave of more than 80 hours of work, payments of collective supplementary pension premiums, allowances to students and students. At the meeting of the working body, the proposal was partly redrafted on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the debate held. This proposal, which we have before us today, sets out a wider range of beneficiaries for the supplement, including for workers in grey zones, social security providers, laboratories and sites where disinfection or cleaning of premises is carried out. For all beneficiaries, the co-appendix shall be increased from 30% to 65% of the hourly rate of the basic salary of the employee for direct work with the co-workers. However, the maximum added limit under the Public Sector Collective Treaty cannot exceed 100 %. In addition, prizes shall be set in the form of a one-time premium for collective supplementary pension insurance and an additional tourist voucher. In the Desus Group we expose extremely difficult work with observant patients, so they are employed in health care and social protection at the edge of their capacities. Some consolation or recognition represents at least the payment of earned supplements, so-called co-additions, for work in dangerous situations, for danger and special burdens. And it's only right that these supplements belong to them. We stress, however, that these supplements must be granted to genuinely eligible persons in health and social care. For there are too many cases where people who do not have even the slightest contact with the patient are given these supplements. He also highlighted the Fiscal Council, which raises doubts about the eligibility of certain payments of allowances to employees. If we look at this supplement through prism statistics – the total labour costs were almost 50% higher over the course of the year. The implementation of the supplement in 2020 amounted to EUR 207 million. The implementation of the supplement in January 2021 amounted to EUR 106 million. Therefore, a total of EUR 313 million. So far, the bulk of the supplements have been paid in health care – about 140 million, about 85 million at community level, about 40 million have been paid within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, about 35 million at the level of the state administration. The Ministry of Health also points out that Slovenia already enjoys a very favourable arrangement of additives for work in specific circumstances related to covid-19 compared to other Member States. In the case of payments of allowances to different groups of employees, the Fiscal Council thus raises doubts as to the eligibility of certain payments that have obviously been made in a consistent and uncoordinated manner, and therefore calls on the Government to take appropriate measures to make payments of allowances more efficient at all levels. Members of the Desus Group also join in this call. Members of the Desus Group are united that these supplements belong to health and social workers, that they must be paid for direct work with the patient and that they must be determined and paid in a just and fair manner. However, as regards the percentage of this supplement and the additional benefits, we have different opinions. Therefore, with regard to this proposal, we will vote in our conscience on the amendment of the law by the Members of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments published on the e-club. Yes, procedurally, Mr. Knezak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u204	Not procedurally. According to my point of view, I wouldn't argue with them, but because I noticed a few thoughts that needed further clarifications, so I would [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u206	Thank you very much. As I said in the introduction, I do not intend to politicise any of the views of the Group of Members, but I have seen that some of the things in our proposal are not interpreted as they were supposed to. And if I go to this supplement that is supposed to exist now – the red zone, the gray zone, an addition of 65%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this allowance will be given to healthcare workers as long as the epidemic is declared. When there is no more epidemic, there will be considerable burden on health personnel in our health system, including the treatment of covida-19, even in the future. But with the end of the epidemic, there is also a reason for getting a 65% supplement from the collective agreement. They will still meet, although there will be no epidemic, the health system will still be burdened, they will treat dangerous patients without any supplement, as this supplement is linked to a time of emergency, says the epidemic. That explains it. Bon, some have wondered what this bon's purpose is. The purpose of this voucher was originally meant in a package where we originally proposed additional days of leave for healthcare workers. However, mainly on the proposal of health workers, health organisations in the debate that we had in the State Council, which warned us that it is pointless to give additional leave days because they already have more than half of last year's leave, and that this is still a problem to be used; we have taken this into account and we have withdrawn this proposal. It is said that it is not the purpose of populism or conceiving, but actually to take some step in the direction of reward. And this voucher went into a package that after these days, when they are working outside of all legal regulations on overtime, they will be burdened in these months, as one thanks the countries, so that we can also appreciate their efforts. I don't know, President, are you in trouble? You guys go ahead and say something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u207	Yes, I wanted to interrupt you, Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, please leave the interlocutor to speak, and do not disturb. Here you go, Mr. Soniboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u208	Great, thank you for this intervention. This voucher was intended primarily to allow them to also afford one part of the holiday, this was the intention of the proposer to propose this voucher. As far as the additional payments of these health premiums are concerned. Here was the thought, because this is already being paid for by all public servants, that now those working in health care will not be equal to other public servants. I must remind you, dear colleagues, that the vast majority of other civil servants have also been working from home to go home after seven, eight hours of service, while for almost a year the health system with health workers has been working under special conditions. Additional payments to the capital company, here I must also remind you of those who do not know this system, this is the successor to the former Beneficiary Working Age. Those who worked in extremely difficult conditions, glass producers, miners and others in this country, were entitled to work in extremely difficult conditions in the previous system for bening, which was suspended in 2000 or 2010, I do not know the exact date. And all of those are paid additional insurance into this capital company. And if anyone, we are firmly convinced that these months have worked in a truly extraordinary situation and that this title also warrants this additional one-off payment for this premium. What Mr Siter has already mentioned, we have missed quite a few groups that are included in this covidbolic treatment system, so we have also expanded the range of these beneficiaries. As mentioned above, we have added laboratories or sites where disinfection or cleaning of premises is carried out, and in grey areas in social security providers at the home of the user. This was also harmonised, and this was also a proposal by health organisations, that this was fair and that they were unjustifiably released. And by doing so, we are simply correcting what seems to us to have not been properly arranged so far. Probably not that someone would deliberately release them, but I believe that in preparing this law they will also release someone, so this extension is also ours. So far so much, chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members and Members, I am really warning you that we respect the Rules of Procedure and that we do not disturb the speaker in his debate. However, I must apologize to you; I myself have made one mistake now, namely, that Mr Sonibo should not give his representative a word until the debate is open. You've been a little persistent, but I apologize for that mistake. We are now moving on to Article 2, to the title of Chapter Final provision and to a new Article 2.a. Since the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and Levica groups to Article 2 has a substantive link to the amendments of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision number 2 and to the new Article 2a under number 1 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to Article 2 shall be substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision number 1 and to the new Article 2a, we shall discuss all amendments to Article 2, to the title of Chapter Final provision and to the new Article 2.a together. I therefore put to the debate the three amendments of SD, LMŠ and Levica's parliamentary groups and the three amendments of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 2, to the title of Chapter Final provision and to the new Article 2.a. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. We have two candidates registered. The first one gets the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! Although I am sorry that there is no representative of the Ministry of Labour between us. I think we are dealing with a very important matter and it would be right to ensure that, despite the disease, as has been pointed out, the relevant presence of the Ministry of Field Affairs is ensured. But maybe this is how the ministry shows how much they actually care about solving things. We have before us a proposal for amendments to the law, which in some way complements one of these so-called PKPs, but it is the content of the content that would properly reward those health workers who are in the first battle lines, in the form of the President of the Government, in the military style of the Prime Minister, who are in fact in the first battle-types of fighting this serious disease covida-19. In any case, it would be right for these people to be called health workers and workers in homes and other social welfare institutions, to be properly rewarded. I don't think there's a man who thinks well who would object. And that is why I am very surprised that we have been able to hear the views of most government parties during the presentation of our views so that they will not support this proposal. One of the arguments was that they are in an unequal position with other public servants. Hell, I think it's right, however, that when these people really suffer the last year because they save the lives of the patients and are themselves exposed to the great dangers of infection, they expose themselves and their families to the dangers of infection, that they may be slightly privileged and therefore receive an appropriate payment, and also some additional reward, as we have suggested, as an additional payment to the pension fund and an additional tourist voucher or voucher. I appeal here indeed to all Members and Members to consider and, in the end, to some reason and humanity, to accept this and to those people in the right way, to express their gratitude and to thank them in some way. I think it means absolutely nothing to them if the aircraft of the NATO military liaison fly over the Slovenian cities. However, if we were to receive an appropriate reward in the form of money and a tourist voucher, I think that would be absolutely right. We've seen a lot of things in these famous PKPs. I have a feeling, and probably not just me, that a number of measures are not intended to solve the epidemic or reward those who deserve it; they are the rewards of those who are on the line. On the line with Janez Janša's regime. How else can I understand that one of the measures was the award of the priests? Payment of their contributions and an additional one-off amount of EUR 700. Are they really the ones in the first battle lines? Are they really disadvantaged by the epidemic? I don't think so. Why did the government propose to extend accreditation to private higher education institutions? We know why. Because one institution of these accreditations, if you went to the test, you wouldn't have done it; and that's why they simply terminated the test. It's the University of Jambrek, it's a university run by or owned by a friend of the Prime Minister Janez Janša and so on. In all these matters, I believe that reason will prevail and that you will also support this proposal of our law, which rewards those who are actually in the first battle. This epidemic will continue, or even when the official epidemic is over, these health workers will still have to work with patients. And in this place, I would really like to thank all the health workers and the workers. I believe that the majority of the National Assembly will understand this and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a good day! The good news in a bunch of bad news is that, as a country, we came in relatively rich at the time of the epidemic. Even a year ago, two of us boasted of record GDP and the best budget and so on. And there really was no hardship from this title, and then the government's operating mode, which has approached to solve the crisis, at least from this monetary point of view, financial point of view. In the opening presentation of the Group's position, I served two very interesting numbers. At the time of the epidemic or the handling of the virus, the government devoted €1.7 billion to capital resolution. However, the aid directly granted to workers and workers has to date been 360 million, without concrete guarantees for the part that is intended for capital, that this will actually translate or translate into job conservation and social security for citizens and citizens. And this is some prism through which we monitor more or less all government crisis measures. And that some of those groups that are really the most active in the field that actually save lives are excluded from the aid kit or from the aid kit; it is not surprising from this point of view. And here we have, as I said in the beginning, groups of people like labs, suppliers, paramedics, caregivers and so on and so forth. The key frame. Well, we don't just have nurses and doctors who are struggling with patients who are watching. And the problem that we face mainly in the care system and in the health system is not just this problem that we have today. If we have already entered the crisis financially with a large or safe budget, this certainly does not apply to the human resources pool that are employed in the key infrastructure. For two or three years now, since I have been closely monitoring their reports and initiatives, the Community of Social Institutions has claimed that there are only too few people in the homes for older workers. Thus, under normal conditions, every provider in the nursing home who works but performs the service of two caregivers. And it is not surprising, of course, that under normal conditions, people are fleeing either to other professions or to other countries. Right now, I've read the testimony of a nurse who's decided she'd rather work in a bar because it's financially worth more than continuing her mission as a nurse. It's about an epidemic; it's about an epidemic. But we need to know one thing of a relatively technical nature. An epidemic is a matter defined by a government-defined policy. He said: Today the epidemic begins and will last until the epidemic is officially stopped. Doesn't mean he'll be less infected that day, which doesn't mean he'll be less dead that day, which doesn't mean he'll be less burdened on the health and care system that day. This simply means that, technically speaking, there will be no more epidemics and that the declared epidemic will not give rise to financial backing or to the support and assistance it receives, at least 65%, to which we also call with our opposition proposals. And opposition proposals are not essentially opposition proposals. I will not be taken on behalf of the opposition. It is a call, it is a constant initiative of the Health and Social Welfare Union. They have been drawing attention to the difficult working conditions, the requirements of the additive, i.e. at least 65%. Once again, we have not invented this in the opposition, but we are following the fully justified demands of employees, i.e. those employees who have been working for a year. I saw it with my own eyes, even after 16 hours in the suits; and so they do it all the year, to the point where they have already burned, physically and mentally completely on their knees. With a particularly painful fact that I do not see a government representative in our ranks today. I don't know how many people are at the competent department of employment, but the speeds aren't all on sick leave today. The fact that there are no government representatives indicates only and only a humiliating attitude towards workers, because the content of the bill is essentially a requirement of workers; I stress once again. Health workers, social workers, people in suits, people who actually save lives. Not like Healthful Rest, but actually with your hands on the ground. Which, of course, shows a demeaning attitude and complete shortsightedness in their work. The proposal we have on the table today solves key problems. One is to save the state of emergency that has now arisen. The leaked situation that occurred between the time of the outbreak of the virus and today, which rewards workers who are currently in this hot chair, at this test; and, of course, equips the entire sector human resources for further development. Since the epidemic will once be over, the homes for the elderly will still be crowded, people will still be sick, the health system will still be burdened, even when Janez Janša shuts down the “epidemia” key; and in this way will ensure that some at least approximately continuation or survival of the public health and care system. What we have before us, respected colleagues and colleagues, is in particular a political decision, whether as a state institution, what the National Assembly is, we are going to be rooting for overflight planes, we are going to spend money on overflight planes that are not serving anything, or maybe we are going to continue to buy some unnecessary weapons; or whether we are going to give our thanks and thanks, which are so full of mouths in this Chamber, we have actually poured into action, in fact, into concrete support of workers and workers in health and care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Before opening another round, I'd like to reexplain, perhaps you didn't all at first hear when I apologized to the Minister and Secretary of State, but they may be present at the meetings of the National Assembly, and they're not due to quarantine. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is under way. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u214	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. It is also not clear to me why the coalition and some, in sayings, opposition parties reject this proposal, some Members have also said that they will not support it, because this government has had a rhetoric which, although it is not the most domestic that we are at war with the virus. If you're at war with the virus, then you need soldiers fighting this virus. In this case, if I do cartoons, soldiers are the ones who work with the patient. And if you don't reward, of course, those soldiers, then I don't know who you're gonna be. And the key thing is, as my colleague Siter also said, there are now not some of our ideas that would come from today to tomorrow; but with all the acceptances of the PKPs from 1 to 8 we got thousands of messages, who were all released. And these are things that we have also proposed with various amendments in the various CAPs. But even though this government is saying how important it is to cooperate, we know what the ransom is when voting on the opposition's amendments. So much for cooperation itself. As has already been said, no one can live off the fine words. Also from the flight of planes and similar thanks. That is why we have decided to table this proposal. The saddest part of all is that this is about, believe it or not, 26 million euros. Now this government is speaking in apology, when some expert and also members of the opposition mention that this money will most likely have to be returned someday, most likely returned by our grandchildren or grandchildren, they say – money is enough, everyone spends, we have to invest. The money is enough, but obviously not for those who would most need it at this stage, it's for those who are responsible for the fact that we're overcoming this virus. 26 million euros. €8 million for a higher allowance for direct work with co-op patients is said to be for people who work directly with patients. EUR 15 million for the one-off premium of the 500-, 750-and-a-thousand-thousand-euro collective pension premium; this is referred to as once again directly to those who work with the patient. EUR 3 million for an additional voucher to improve the economic situation in the area of tourism consumption for employees in health and social welfare institutions; it is said once again to those who work with patients who are visible. At the same time, we will also help tourism, where the government likes to brag about how these tourist vouchers helped Slovenian tourism. And now pay attention – €0.1 million to pay the allowance for students and students. In the opposition of SD, LMŠ and Levica we have also tabled an amendment extending these supplements to students and students. On various committees, I said that students and students had lost about 100 million euros and the government had given them twice the €150, which means 8 million; and that, if I may say, 100 million euros had been cancelled in quotations. Minus is €90 million. And now we are giving them 0.1 million euros with this proposal. I do not understand a Member who will be able to vote against this amendment and against this proposal. Every time some members of the coalition come forward, I've already said, it looks like they're programmed, like some computers -- we work for people, this government works for people. Now vote in such a way that you will work for the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I'm going to say that I understand what you said in the introduction that none of the representatives from the Ministry can be among us today, but it's a little strange that they're not in our midst. But this epidemic has just shown this misery of the world, and when this infection occurs, at the end of the day, almost so-called life stops. But let's leave business with the Ministry now. It's gonna be a year next week since we're facing an epidemic. And next week it will be 120 days, which we have announced an epidemic in Slovenia in the second wave. This is alarming information. And when you somehow look at the whole thing and you face what's going on, and all this rapid growth in infections that happened in that second wave, of course the consequences are priceless. In the front row, as we all speak together today, medical personnel as well as nursing staff are in nursing homes for the elderly. The most infections in the second wave were in the homes. And who suffered the most there? And there, too, they faced the introduction of the virus themselves among the employees. Of course, the overloaded nursing staff. Medical staff are also available in nursing homes, of course. The Health and Social Welfare Union, which represents employees in health and social services, has already addressed a letter to the competent ministries and to the Government on 1 October 2020 – Call for assistance: we can no longer do so. That's when. Just today, since it's been a few months, almost five months since then, we can ask ourselves what else happened at the time. And even then, on October 1, 2020, they called for help so they could no longer do so. But they did. And here's a really big thank you. How did they organise how the directors organised the work, what was going on with these workers? The workers did not work for 8, 10 hours, but over, 16 hours working. They were overloaded. We know for ourselves that if we sit here for more than 12 hours, we work under abnormal conditions and do not work physically with patients. Not to mention, they're still wearing suits. And when you listen to this story that those individuals who really have suffered for their lives and gave themselves away do not deserve an allowance, it is truly extremely sad that the other side does not hear it. Why am I still talking about this? All the PKPs we've had so far have been kind of heavy 7 billion. One third of this money has been spent, and it is only and only 26 million that this CAP is difficult, which we are investing today and correcting these errors or the problems that have arisen all along. To help these people who were working, working, suffering, for all of this was not suffering only when they were in the workplace; their family suffered. I know quite a few of these cases, which did not come home at the time of the worst wave, were removed just because they did not take the infection home, in case it could happen, they were making tours and not going home. They were in special groups, and they just kind of got some rest and then left again. The family also suffered at home in this way. Doesn't that cost nothing?Oh, my God! I think we really need to ask ourselves, and look from a human perspective, that there was a broader problem here. These people really deserve it because they have done their work with a great deal of sacrifice, with all their heart. Normal, absolutely, there are psychophysical and emotional problems. Believe me, these people will have problems in the future. And then we'll ask ourselves, what did this epidemic bring? A lot of them couldn't even go on a decent vacation. He didn't even have a lot of his free time. Absolutely, this healthcare and nursing staff has been substantially more adapted, dropping out than all other inhabitants of Slovenia. However, we are all together, or else – I will say so – we will suffer better. We cannot go to our relatives, even to our loved ones, or we have very limited contact, for we do not want to bring the virus to our parents. Personally, I would feel very uncomfortable about any unloving situation. That is why these contacts are very limited. And we end up suffering because we do not have the quality of life we had in the past. But I believe that together we will be able to defeat this virus. I only hope that we will continue to take into account all the measures that they are. There are absolutely some measures that are excessive. This is where she's gonna have to start thinking about this common sense. Those measures, which are successful or have some positive consequences, then yes; the rest really need to be brought into some context. If I still touch the transfer of personnel that took place in the infirmary and also in the wards. Of course, certain people moved from one place to another. They were looking for reserves, and this is where the directors did their job well. But people in the front lines suffered. Even moving between one and the other institutions has taken place, we must not forget this. I absolutely believe that this law is on the right hand side to help these people, at least if not otherwise, because these exhaustions, exhaustions and burdens cannot be recovered, but if they receive this supplement, at least once the situation has calmed down, they will be able to make better use of it or to benefit from it in the society of their loved ones. There were awards in the first wave. In the second wave there were quite a few difficulties in paying for these supplements. All employees, both the health staff and the social staff, are aware that they have decided to do this work, which is not easy, which they do with all their heart. However, I really think that they need to be listened to, given that we have really shared these funds from the PKP many times also incorrectly, not to achieve the effect that we wanted; but in this group of these people, we should really look at it. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that in this PKP we also propose two awards, one in the form of an extraordinary premium for collective supplementary pension insurance and also an additional tourist voucher. Of course, everyone will be able to use it according to their capabilities and abilities. I believe that many more will need to use their own resources in the use of the tourist voucher, of course with all their work, but this can only be one and only one piece of thanks to all those who have suffered and suffer. And what's the worst? To continue to work and there will be exhaustion; therefore, it is imperative that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Keep this fellow of my generation quiet until the election is reclassified outside Parliament. Thank you. That we won't be long and wide. We all thanked the health workers for something here. Now is also an opportunity to thank them, frankly, through pennies, if this coalition through pennies thanked a whole series of things populistally. Already in the first wave, these so-called supplements were put in such a way that people in the Slovenian health care were fighting more than they did. Colleagues before me spoke very clearly about matters, a whole range of people working in Slovenian public health in the way that their basic wages are, I hope, unconstitutional because the basic starting wages are at risk of poverty. Then you did some sort of acrobatics here from the coalition, such zones, one zone, another, third zone. If we went a little deeper, how did this happen in practice? You know, someone in one red zone knows what time it is. Also in the gray zone around here. And outside those zones, there were infections coming in. Those of you who love military terminology, and I don't like it, because it's not a JLA soldier virus that you're going to put on a ship in Koper and send it anywhere, that's another story. But you're what? Collateral damage. Politics is supposed to be a public use of the mind, it's high time to start thinking in this national assembly, not to listen here, but to reclassify. Suffering, up, down, just coming from a family like that where they work a lot in health care, including someone else between us. These people don't ask about suffering because they're professionals and because they do their job. On that voucher, each one of them should get a week in those dormitory thermals to get some rest, not just this voucher. Let's stop making a fool of ourselves, but let's just think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Representative of the proposaler Sonibo Knezak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, the coalition was not involved in the debate, except by presenting their views, in which they, of course, presented everything else, but by not responding to the topic that is today, this is the award of health workers. However, in their views, of course, they mentioned everything they had done, as soon as possible the left governments did not care for the elderly today, that it was their priority to do good, that the government was doing good and similar floscules. I understand such general positions because I believe they are in the soul of shame, that many of them today will not support this proposal and that they deeply agree with our proposal. Unfortunately, they won't press the button at the final stage. I am very sad, respected colleagues and colleagues, our proposal for the award of health workers we have prepared purely on a realistic basis, explained that we are correcting some of the mistakes that have been made, because some of us have failed to deal with certain matters concerning the award, even after the epidemic is no longer declared, and that health workers will still be dealing with the covidus, still working in emergency situations, still working in the suits and so on; that we have also brought this topic to the left and that saddens me. Unfortunately, I don't know about the others, thank God you didn't have, but I have a personal experience with covida-19 and also this experience when I was in the hospital for a few days. I've had the opportunity to talk to this staff these days. I thought whenever I woke up, I met one and the same. Then I ask them. From October, he says we've been working under this regime from 12 to 14 hours. Even those who came at the end of twice a day to clean rooms, cleaners that we have included in this proposal today, all these services that work with them, as former colleagues Siter said, for a minimum or some euro above them, would be more than right to include them in order to get one part of this award. At the final stage, colleagues and colleagues, we are today discussing a 26 million prize proposal; at the 6 billion 900 million that this government has earmarked to deal with epidemic or covido-related issues. Not to mention how successful those measures were. A poor third of them have been used, but today you have concerns that I do not know why you are not going to back this up so far as rewards are appropriate. We're talking about 26 million, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Someone told me before, because health workers didn't do overtime for money. I have two children, a son and a daughter, both their partners working in health care, all four. You know what they were talking about? Because they work on teams that worked 24 hours tours, so they always had one team on the safe side, that they didn't get infected, that the system in the stem hospital could work. Do you know what they were talking about? Not about how much money they'd get paid, they were talking about where they were going to give the kids, because kindergartens were closed, who was going to protect them, that was their concern. And if we don't understand these stories, if we're 26 million too many, then we can be ashamed. At least I'm ashamed. Not to mention the position of one of the parliamentary groups, this is beneath me, that if there is not enough money for health workers, they should retrain to work elsewhere. I don't want anyone to experience this experience and need their services; they can be ashamed. I don't think there's anything else I can tell you. Our purpose was to make it clear, not to do a circus, not to do populism, what the professional councils of health have warned us about, so the representatives of health organizations, we have withdrawn from this. We have also taken into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and we have also made some changes. The main milestone is what we should do today when voting, as far as these points are concerned, and not what I am listening to 14 days ago, my colleague Horvat, Mr Reberšek – on behalf of all, I thank the health workers in public. You will vote against it today. Christian. I don't want to say anything else. I'm really ashamed sometimes because we're dealing with things in this National Assembly, we're sharing, I'm listening to things that happened 50 years ago, including the President of the Government. Today, the problem is 26 million for a few euros received by healthcare professionals. I'll finish up with my respectable colleagues. I appeal to everyone on their own to think about everything I've just said. Of course, I ask that you vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I ask again, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. My friend Runcko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u222	Wait, where we are now, that one Member for another Member of the press. Then we'll have a drink and we'll delegate one – Jani, you're the youngest, you'll vote for SD. I'm asking you to correct the young NSI MP. That's across the border now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u223	Mrs. Iva Dimic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u224	I'm sorry, I was just five steps away from here, but of course I wanted to discuss it. I quit because I simply asked Tadeja in that panic, but I was five steps away. If there's any other way, I'd sign up for it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Really, I wouldn't give you a word here because it wasn't by procedure. Dr. Franz Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u226	It's not about Eve. It's about the procedure. The Chair could suspend the application procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u227	Well, that's what I said. Thank you, too, to a fellow SD Member who has raised his hand and has not applied. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the third defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the Slovenian Press Agency within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Moon. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Matthew Tašner Vatovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are before the third reading of the proposed amendment to the Slovenian Press Agency Act. As we have pointed out many times, it is a brief, simple novelty that essentially changes only one provision in the law itself, namely that the Slovenian Press Agency in English also reports on the work of voluntary, non-governmental and humanitarian organisations. Why would you do that? Undoubtedly due to the outstanding role played by volunteers, NGOs and humanitarian organisations in Slovenia. These organisations are not only an important part, an important segment of the organisation of Slovenian society [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u229	Dear Dr. Vatovec, I'm sorry to interrupt. I very much ask Members and Members of the SD that, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, no one interferes with the speaker during the speech. Thank you. I hope you understand that. Dr. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u230	Thank you, Vice President. These organisations include different forms of participation, from culture, sport, as I have already said, humanitarian organisations, including voluntary firefighting companies, which are also an exceptional opportunity for young people to be involved in social activities and community activities, sports societies and so on. Non-governmental organisations cover a very wide range of civil society organised on the basis of wider or greater interests with a view to joint action and participation in cultural, educational, political, environmental, identity and other activities. In recent years, we have seen that their work has often gone beyond what is the boundaries of their own municipalities for smaller societies, for smaller organisations, and also the borders of the country as such. We assess the candidates, the opposition parties, that it would be both reasonable and correct for the Slovenian Press Agency to report on the achievements and activities of these organisations in the wider area, is said to publish these news in English. Another moment of why we think this is necessary is due to the growing trends that are developing in Slovenia mainly due to the negative attitude of the government, in the first place with the President of the Government, to NGOs and to all forms of organisation that are trying to move things better in certain segments. We know, we've heard about the mistrust that the Prime Minister sees NGOs as some sort of paramilitary opposition and so on. This attitude, shown by this government to NGOs, is not only deplorable but also worrying. And after recent events it is clear that there is also an increasing number of international public and international eyes focused on what is happening in Slovenia. You can follow the fights between the President of the Government and the European Members on Twitter, you can follow up on the letters of the President of the Government with the institutions and Commissioners of the European Commission and so on. Unfortunately, Slovenia slides into some form of Iliberal Democracy, as it is often called, into some image that looks very frighteningly like what is happening in Hungary or in another multi-urban country. From this point of view, we are assessing today so much more than when we have tabled this law that the importance of the STA's public service reporting in this regard is also of some national importance in a foreign language. The fact that the STA will report these matters in English also means that in some way it will send criticism signals against the authoritarianism of the government of Janez Janša to the international public, and in some ways we can try to defend what is left of Slovenian democracy. In this respect and in view of the fact that the STA leadership also agrees with these changes, we hope today, in the third reading, that the law will be passed, as it was at first reading and at the labour market, and that we will take this step to improve the functioning of the STA, which is also strongly under government pressure as an institution itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u231	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Dr. Ignacija Fridl Jarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u232	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the draft law, as it is preparing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Press Agency Act, which was already under public scrutiny from 9 July 2020 until 5 September 2020, and will confirm and send it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shortly after the adoption of the Act. Unlike the proposal under consideration, which concerns only a minor or partial amendment, the government proposal fully addresses the position of the Slovenian Press Agency. The amendments and additions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia relate to all key areas in the law, from the definition of the activities of the Slovenian Press Agency, the financing of its public service, the principles of operation, the arrangements of the Supervisory Board to the appointment and discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board and the responsible editor. So much for the government's position. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mojca Škrinjar has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Hello! The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency in the framework of the public service imposes the publication of news in the English language on voluntary work and NGOs. The Slovenian Press Agency Act in Article 4 lays down the activities of the Agency. Thus, the STA carries out a public service of daily creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key, most essential information on the event, on the events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world in Slovenian with the following areas: politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicle, sport, events from the world, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. In the second paragraph of the same Article, the Act provides that the STA shall perform the public service of daily production, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key and most relevant information on the event in the Republic of Slovenia in English; and shall list several areas in which it reports in English and shall summarise the others with the term “other content”. The proposed party Levica, List of Marjan Šarc, Alenka Bratušek and Social Democrats have introduced a legislative procedure to supplement the law, in which translations of voluntary work reports and NGOs are also explicitly highlighted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the existing law already provides for the possibility of translating all the areas reported by the STA, so there is no need to supplement the existing law. On the contrary, we believe that there are unnecessary additions and thus increased red tape. In Slovenia, there are tens of thousands of regulations, laws, regulations and regulations that do not always increase the safety and comfort of citizens and citizens, but sometimes make life more difficult because of their lack of transparency. The coalition agreement is based on, and we can see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to implement its commitment to debirocratisation, which we support; and in this spirit, we believe that it is more necessary to direct power to solutions and legal bases that create new opportunities for citizens and citizens to live better, so we do not support the proposal of the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u236	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! At the time of the current government, of course, any strengthening of the public service provided by the STA has become the past, unfortunately. Instead of having a meaningful discussion today about how to radically upgrade conditions for an autonomous and highly professional journalistic service of daily creation, mediation and archiving of news about the events in the Republic of Slovenia and around the world, we are witnessing an increasingly violent government stamp on the STA, which has been forced to fight for several months to protect its mission and journalistic independence in order to stop funding. Black present law brings only a minor change, it is important because it opens up a field for discussion and helps to rehabilitate the STA, threatened by one-minded party interest. From the government side and from the coalition we have not heard any valid argument why we should not extend the range of areas that STA also reports in English. Hiding for the used political phrase “a comprehensive law is being prepared” is obviously due to a very clearly measured desire from the top. For everything that smells of solidifying the role of STA in society, let it still be so non-problem, means a deviation from the goal. And this is the destruction of an independent agency, as we know it today. Destruction. In LMŠ, we believe that reporting in English, including non-governmental organisations and volunteering, is exclusively a wealth of public service. We do not understand colleagues from the coalition who defend media independence at the declaration level. But you see what right populism did to our eastern neighbors, don't you, colleagues?Oh, my God! Why don't you stop beating the STA that the SDS party is doing to everyone? How can you keep a calm eye on Esdees' disrespect for the two laws on funding the agency? Why do you remain silent when the President of the Government peacefully ignores a perfectly clear article in the PKP7, which, of course, full of mouths about independent media and unacceptable behaviour of Ukom, you have invested in the SMC and we have supported it in the opposition? I wonder if you've just played one public performance in December. This week a new flower has taken place, and it reads as follows: WHY should justice be sought in a court of law? This was said by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Zorčič, on Monday. This was a bad joke, for which humorous sequel might it be because it is an unworthy statement by the President of the National Assembly. You're just silent observers, and that's because you're letting yourself be crushed by the STA. You're silent observers in NSa, Desus and SMC. I'm sorry. It is great that Europe sees and monitors you just before the Presidency of the EU Council in this devastation of the media landscape in Slovenia. Show me a European leader who, on Twitter, profanes everyone and everyone and has a lot of trouble with names that are inappropriately bigger than him. But this is how they know who we are dealing with in Brussels. Media damage to Slovenia has already been done, but it is still repairable. The first one in the government is very much deepening, and the NSI and SMC ministers are apparently only non-fearing statisticians, who occasionally resort to general, very intertwined defences of media freedom and independence. That's great. Since you will obviously not be able to destroy the agency financially, you intend to discipline it in a way that will put it under the umbrella of the demographic fund. We will, of course, support the amendment of the law in the LMŠ because we support every independent and quality medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik, I can only remind you that you had a position on SMC and Desus; and half less on the STA. For the future, present the position of LMŠ, not SMC. They will tell the next panellists. I now give the floor to only Bevk to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the law, given that this is already the third debate on the proposal for a new law which requires the Slovenian Press Agency to inform the international public about the work of the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, the events of NGOs in Slovenia, the content they offer and the problems they face in their work, in English. In view of the long-term process of adopting such a non-requisitive law, it was necessary to amend the date on which the provision of the law would also be implemented in practice. From 1 January 2021 this was moved for six months to 1 June 2021. We believe that the proposed provisions should not be problematic for the government, but that is exactly what happened. The government does not support the bill. The government has been fighting with the Slovenian Press Agency for months. The agency that played an important role during the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The agency that has developed in all these 30 years of operation into a modern multimedia society that, in addition to the public information service, cares about the information of most national and local media. Social Democrats believe that the Slovenian Press Agency has gained a great reputation in the international space with its credible work. Therefore, Slovenia and its government should endeavour to make use of the international reputation of the STA in the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. As we say, we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u240	Hello! On this pay phone, it was said that we were in SMC silently. But I won't be quiet for the next five minutes, and I'll tell you how we feel about this thing. In these days we read that only the court, instead of politics, can cut the Gordy knot of the continuation – STA sangra one hair Ukom rosas; which would translate into Spanish – STA bleeds at Uko roses. We also read about absurdity when the national press agency closed down access to its market content to the largest contracting authority, the Government. There are announcements that another national press agency is being set up to take over the tasks of the STA, which we find difficult to believe. We are witnessing the storm that some are using to bring unrest into the public sphere and into our media space. One is the world, and the reality is, looks like, two. Today, in our second attempt by the proposer at the modern centre Party Group, we express our support for the amendment of the STA Act. Why? Because it only refers to one change, which in the substantive sense does not constitute any shocks and does not change the concept of the organisation and the operation of the STA. The novel only provides for the possibility for the STA to publish content in the field of volunteering and NGOs in the English language in the future. This is a simple and harmless solution, although some parliamentary debates on the previous amendment of the STA law with the same content have shown exactly the opposite, too controversial and in particular unfounded arguments against. The choice of news to be further reported by STA in the English language should not be made by NGOs and volunteers themselves. This, like all other areas, would be within the competence of the STA. This confirms the legitimacy aspect and does not jeopardise the objectivity known to the STA. It would only make its mission internationally accessible to all who are informed by the functioning of volunteering and non-governmental organisations about the positive user experience and the transfer of good practice. This is certainly a way to establish a useful tool for the promotion of Slovenian volunteering and NGOs abroad. Too bad everyone doesn't see it the same way. Why this opposition, and who is afraid of it? Fear of diversity, plurality and internationalisation is one of the most obvious obstacles to social progress. However, many volunteers and NGOs who perform their work perfectly, conscientiously, responsibly and extensively instead of the country can take away opportunities, close their window to the world and make it impossible for them to connect. Why wouldn't the world know directly from the U.S.A., what can we do in Slovenia? When the world knows more about Slovenia, Slovenia will be more in the world. Is that what we're afraid of? Finally, integration in the field of volunteering and non-governmental organisations is a strengthening of basic civilisation values; for a small country, it is even more important. In the SMC, we are committed to bridging at least these two fields in the House of Parliamentary Tectonics a series of ideological differences. Both areas have several positive effects on society and cannot be denied. We have also confirmed this in the Strategy for the Development of NGOs and Volunteering until 2023, in the Laws on Volunteering and NGOs. So it is up to us today to unify ourselves with regard to one single indent, which for the STA only means the extension of the public service – reporting in English also on the topics of volunteering and NGOs. In fact, this means acquiring an effective tool to strengthen Slovenia's position in the international community. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we will also support the bill this time, with the hope of a quick and happy end to the continuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have been dealing with the Slovenian Press Agency in one way or another since the beginning of this mandate, since sharp and severe attacks on this essentially public service began. We tabled a proposal for a Law amending the Slovenian Press Agency Act last October, after which simple reporting on volunteering and non-governmental organisations in the English language would be included as part of the public service prescribed by the Slovenian Press Agency; and this was already a huge problem for this government. The U.S.A. is obliged to report on voluntary work and NGOs in the Slovenian language, and this amendment of the law would extend this part of the public service to translation or reporting in English, so it would also provide information to the general international public and also to the foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia. This situation is particularly important in the current situation of the relaxed democratic structure and the serious in Europe and abroad, in the reverberating and uplifting government pressure on the media, journalists, civil society, the non-governmental sector, which denies its historical contribution and development potential to active citizenship and freedom of expression. And probably in this bush there is a rabbit, why this government is so much opposed to reporting STA in English as well. THE STA shall carry out an important mission in the field of the exercise of the constitutionally guaranteed right of the public to information. In Levica, we believe that it is necessary to ensure the information of the wider international public and the foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia on developments in the non-governmental sector and civil society in Slovenia, as NGOs play an important and vital role, to carry out a range of activities of public interest and public interest, a diversified and diversified area of community-based activities of voluntary associations, from firefighters, cultural, sports, youth, education, environmental, minority and other interests, to which they should be proud. And let us not forget that societies and voluntary organisations are also actively and loyally involved in eliminating and mitigating the effects of the covida-19 epidemic on the most critical and affected segments of society, in particular social care for the poor and at risk, for the homeless, marginalized groups, minorities, protection and rescue, and so on. Due to the growing trends in Slovenia due to the extremely negative attitude and sharp attacks by the government on NGOs, which have reached the full extent of the expression just at the time of the adoption of government laws to address the new coronavirus epidemic, we in Levica estimate that it is in the broadest social interest to report on the functioning and efforts of voluntary and other NGOs also for international space. Voluntary work is not only a humanitarian activity, but it provides services and activities that should normally be taken care of by the State, and it is not a matter of concern. It unites individuals who give their own time, knowledge, and energy to help others unselfishly. It can also be an active entry into public life through a statement on socially relevant issues, the opening of civil dialogue and an active citizens' initiative. This, too, is probably problematic for this government. NGOs help to raise awareness among the general public about various issues and solutions, create a motivational environment, mobilize people to engage actively, develop civil dialogue, help values of solidarity and respect culture. They are some kind of litmus paper on the realization of democratic principles, values, equality and humanism, or a reflection of the degree of democracy in society. And that's a problem for the government. In short, organised civil society is useful, developmental and necessary for every democratic society, and therefore a positive message about its functioning must also be cut off outside the borders. In Levica, we argue that it is in the wider social interest that the STA reports on the functioning of NGOs also for international space, and therefore the leftist Group supports the amendment of the Slovenian Press Agency Act again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. The position for today's amendments to the Slovenian Press Agency Act in Novi Slovenije – we have already presented the Christian Democrats three times and still have not changed our position. With the amendment of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, opposition parties want the public service area to expand to the English field of reporting on NGO events. This is in practice already being done and, in our opinion, reporting on non-governmental organisations in English is not one of the activities to be taken care of by the State through the State. NGOs wishing to have their messages in English can take care of this by themselves and thus present themselves to the international public. Some non-governmental organisations have already received additional means of translation, site design and reporting in English. In support of this proposal, the same activities would be financed twice from the State budget. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we therefore oppose the proposal because we believe that it is more appropriate, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that this part of reporting is taken care of by NGOs themselves. Some receive funds that can be redistributed by regulating their own English versions of websites and thus informing the international public about their activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u246	Your Honor! Last year, a new series of historical events will take place when the current government of Janez Janša invaded media autonomy and stifled press freedom. Contravention to changes and additions to laws that are good, in accordance with the Constitution and in the interest of Slovenia, is only a continuation of the war with the media created by the President of the Government. Today we are again considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, which we have submitted to the assembly by all opposition parliamentary groups. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the international public is informed of developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia. One article is amended, namely that the STA is obliged to report on voluntary work and NGOs not only in the Slovenian language but also in the international public. The same content of the draft law on the working body in October of the previous year was not adopted and the treatment procedure was concluded. In view of the amendment to the law to ensure that the international public is informed of developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, we are in the opposition, as well as some representatives of the coalition, of the opinion that the proposal for a small adjustment and a significant change must nevertheless come into force. According to Minister Vasko Simoniti, the government is not expected to support the proposal of the STA Act, as there is a government proposal to include the proposed substantive public service addition in the field of NGOs as well. The government proposal does touch on this area, but with a significant difference, news in English would no longer be part of the public service, but its publication in English would be a completely marketable activity. As I have said several times before, the current government is a non-profit organization of thorns in the heel. Let me just remind you, for example, when the government, in its seventh anti-Korona law, put forward a proposal to abolish the NGO fund. Not only destroy non-profit organisations, the government has a plan of STA to submit to the promotional press SDS – National Press Agency (NTA), which is a private project of a member of SDS. Therefore, it is not a matter of meeting the contractual obligations that the STA has fulfilled. This is about finding a way to destroy independent media landscapes with the aim of orbanizing Slovenia. In the SAB, we believe that NGOs are one of the key building blocks of civil society and contribute to the implementation of the principles of pluralism and democracy in society. Not only are we in favour of this proposal, but we believe that the STA would expand its content areas in the creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries. We will not allow the current government to close the window to the world with financial impoverishment and accounting through the public service of the STA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are practically for the fourth time considering the proposal that, in addition to reporting in English, the STA should also report on voluntary work and non-governmental organisations. Initially, I would stop at the fact that it is important that we have a press agency that is objectively concerned with informing the Slovenian public about all current topics. I stress this because we have read a lot in the past days about the suspension of the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency by a participant who exercises rights on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Message sent by Ukom 24. 2. 2021, there was no doubt a surprise. We can read in it that Ukom is 27. 1. 2021 fulfilled all obligations to the Slovenian Press Agency in accordance with the public service contract. With the final payment, any contractual relationship between Ukomo and STA ended. For this reason, Uk, as the representative of the founder, refused to pay the January application of the Slovenian Press Agency for a public service performed. To return now to the darkness that we are dealing with today. Opinions on reporting on voluntary work and NGOs in English are different in the Desus Group. If some Members do not have a problem adding new tasks to the STA, others also point out that the extension of tasks could result in the unequal treatment of NGOs and voluntary activities. However, we all agree that the most important task of the STA is to inform the Slovenian public about the current topics first, in the Slovenian language, and, in addition, it already has the task of reporting in English, where the chronicles and other content are listed, where news of voluntary work and NGOs can already be included. We will therefore vote in the Desus Group in our conscience this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The last position to be presented by Dušan Šiško is the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u250	THE STA should be the pear of the state, not the political anti-State element. The new law is bad, because it's only a partial solution. Applicants want the law to explicitly state that the Slovenian Press Agency is obliged to report in the Slovenian language on volunteer work and NGOs. This matter already exists when it is stipulated that the Slovenian Press Agency is obliged to report other content in English. Since they want to regulate the content already regulated, we consider such a change only to divert attention from real problems or to seek the attention of the STA. The Slovenian Press Agency is not a large budget consumer, nor does it employ a large number of staff. For these reasons, a change would be in place in order to relieve this agency of its work, not to impose a new express obligation on it, as proposed. The public service which is committed should focus on topics of importance to Slovenian citizens and report only in Slovenian. The name already says that it is a Slovenian agency, so the basic language of the operation of this agency should only be Slovenian. It should be stressed, however, that in the European Union all languages are equal. Nor does reporting on the work of non-governmental organisations make sense to us because it is a wide range of organisations that are not needed, namely 28 000 in particular in the environmental field and the various protestors behind certain organisations. If this is to be reported, the question is what will be the message to the world. It usually goes to the founders of these organisations for their own self-promotion in the media and for their own, often financial interests. When they reach these two goals by means of the law, they remain silent. There have been some cases, but it is good to report firefighters, for example. These are topics that are under-exposed and discussed only when we need these people. The right choice, which will be reported, is often highly controversial and editorially highly politically coloured. In the media room, reporting should be objective, fair and journalists should be committed to the research method. Too many times, we see that certain reporting entities are simply released from such or different editorial policies. In short, in all the problems we currently have in our country, we do not see any need for the STA to be explicitly committed to reporting on the work of NGOs in English. Make sure that events abroad and events in our country are reported objectively, in the Slovenian language. Those interested in the news in a foreign language should arrange for their own translation. Advantages should be given mainly to a beautiful and rich Slovenian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The draft law in the third reading was, however, accompanied by an amendment from the Group of Ambassadors to the title Transitional and final provision and a new Article 1.a. However, since the amendments were tabled in contravention of the third paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure, we will neither discuss nor vote on them. Other amendments to the bill were not tabled. We will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to housing law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Group of 12 Members and Members of the First-signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Robert Rožac. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u252	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and other participants in today's meeting. We have prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law, which we are considering today, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, in response to the difficult access to suitable apartments that we are facing in Slovenia. With the proposed novelty, we want to stop the trend of the collapse of the public rental fund and create sustainable conditions for the operation of housing funds. The novelty contains only urgent changes to the law, which will in a relatively short time have positive effects and will not require additional administrative burdens. We are aware that further steps will have to be taken towards the systematic revision of housing legislation to the proposed solutions. In-depth coordination with all stakeholders in housing policy will be needed as a broad consensus is necessary for the successful implementation of the changes. However, the situation in the area of the provision of public rentals requires some immediate action. The municipalities and housing funds with too low rent can no longer provide simple and not widespread reproduction of the housing fund. As a result, housing waiting periods are increasing and the number of non-profit housing beneficiaries who cannot do so is increasing. The main change is the harmonisation of the amount of the non-profit rent. The value of the point for determining the value of the dwelling using which the non-profit rent is calculated was 2,63 euros established on 1 January 2007 and remained unchanged for 14 years, which is a fundamental reason for the collapse of the public rental fund. In order to reflect the real value of the apartment, we coordinate its value with the novel and ensure that its value is revalued for the future. We propose that the value of the point will gradually increase over a period of three years from the current 2.63 euros to 3.5 euros. This is foreseen every year to align the value of the point with the annual increase in prices of living needs. We are also introducing changes to the rental subsidy system to ensure that the harmonisation of the amount of non-profit rent will not affect socially disadvantaged renters of non-profit apartments. The maximum share of the rent covered by the subsidy shall be raised, a special relief for single-member households and a correction for the calculation of the non-profit rent for disabled persons who are permanently linked to the use of a wheelchair. In order to encourage investment in the construction or acquisition of new public rental apartments, we propose a higher allowable borrowing of housing funds; we allow both state and municipal funds to borrow up to 50% of the intended assets. At the same time, we want to give the State Housing Fund a preliminary right to sell habitable municipal land for multi-housing construction. In particular, I would like to point out the establishment of a public rental service aimed at the activation of an existing but unoccupied housing fund. She'll be an intermediary, a manager, and a tenant. It will relieve owners of all transactions and risks related to the provision of housing and will provide them with regular income in the long term. The acquired apartments will then be handed over to the beneficiaries for rent after a non-profit rent. We are also introducing some key changes in the area of multi-housing buildings management. Mandatory separate fiduciary accounts will be introduced for the reserve fund of each multi-family building, which will contribute to safer and more transparent management of reserve funds. Solutions are also envisaged that will increase the control of the senior owners of the operation of the administrator and in the event of violations, including the action of the house inspection, thereby ensuring, in the first place, the supervision of the manager's conduct and the availability of funds from the reserve fund, which are property of the key owners. With the legal protection of the voting owners, we also increase the necessary consensus to carry out business in multi-housing buildings. This will facilitate the way to maintenance and reconstruction works, energy renovations and the removal of architectural barriers. Multi-inhabitation buildings, which are mostly over 30 years of age, certainly need these interventions in order to provide their inhabitants with an adequate standard of living, but it has been difficult to obtain sufficient consent due to fragmented ownership so far. As you can see, this is a law that truly refers to the most pressing areas of housing policy in Slovenia, so the Ministry believes it should be adopted and implemented as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The solutions in the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law are similar in their content to the solutions in the proposed amendment to the Housing Law, which was prepared in the government of Marjana Šarc. This proposed novel also addresses the area of housing policy, which can be gravely divided into three interconnected clusters: the relationship between the top tenants of multi-entity buildings, the relationship between the top tenants and the managers of multi-entity buildings, and the strengthening of the public tenant housing fund. The proposed amendment reduces the percentage of the necessary consents of the floor owners in a separate multi-household building to improve or intervene in the joint parts of the building, which are classified by the Construction Act as one of the actions for which a building permit is to be obtained. The proposed solution is based on the implementation of the law in daily practice, as part of which it has been found that a legal percentage of the consent of the floor owners for interventions in the joint parts of the building is often not available. With the implementation of the proposed solution, investments will be made in each multi-housing building to raise the quality of the stay of the top-level owner or user of the apartments and investments that follow the energy efficiency and earthquake safety guidelines. They will also affect the market value of the individual housing unit. The implementation of such investments may, however, jeopardise the condition that the consent of all senior owners is also necessary for the rental and repayment of the loan at the burden of the reserve fund. We believe in the Marjan Sarca List that it would be wise to reduce the required scope of the necessary consensus, as proposed for the execution of interventions and investments for which a building permit is to be obtained. This measure would enable individual housing communities to obtain financial resources for the realisation of those investments that exceed the financial capacity of the reserve funds of each housing community. The proposed novel addresses the shortcomings of the current Housing Law, which are reflected in the relationship between the high-level owners and the managers of multi-housing buildings. With the introduction of separate fiduciary accounts for each apartment building where the funds of the reserve funds are collected, it is explicitly stated that the manager can only have the resources of the reserve fund under the authority of the authorised floor owner of each multi-entity building. The extension of the powers of the competent housing inspectors strengthens the legal position and interest of the senior owners and restricts or completely prevents the possibility of the misuse or disposal of the funds of the reserve fund of the individual housing community by the contract managers of the apartment building. Changes in the protection of the interests of high-level owners are necessary and reflect extreme cases of everyday practice, which resulted in financial damage to high-level owners as payers to housing community reserve funds. The proposed Housing Law, which was drafted in the government of Marjana Sarca, aims to strengthen the public housing fund and implement the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. To this end, measures have been taken to encourage the owners of uninhabited dwellings to put them on the real estate market and measures to establish an appropriate financial basis for the construction of public rental apartments at national and local level. The proposed novel follows the same objectives and measures to establish an appropriate financial basis for the construction of public rental apartments at national and local level vary slightly. The departure from the proposed measures of the new Housing Law from the time of the government of Marjan Šarc is the maintenance of the Institute of Non-profit Rent. Instead of introducing the cost rent that was recognised as a systemic solution at the time of the proposal of the Housing Law, the proposal of the novel retains a non-profit rent and increases the value points for calculating this rent. As a result, non-profit rents will rise and the amount of subsidies for socially disadvantaged people will also rise. In the previous term, the proposed amendment to the Housing Law assessed that maintaining a non-profit rent constituted a non-systemic solution that did not impose mandatory consideration of the value of land which varied strongly in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal of the novel so provides that the location factor will be taken into account when calculating the rent subsidy. Next. The proposed novel retains the possibility of more indebtedness of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and municipal housing funds. The text does not show the possibility of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia providing guarantees for loans from individuals, young families who first solve the housing issue and the form of employment or monthly income does not allow them to do so. Among the measures to encourage the owners of uninhabited dwellings to place them on the real estate market, the proposal of the novel retains the establishment of a public rental service which would manage, maintain and broadcast them on behalf of and on behalf of the owners of the apartment. Among the measures to increase the number of new buildings for public rentals, the proposed amendment does not provide for the establishment of housing cooperatives. The latter are the main incentives of non-profit housing abroad. They were also very widespread in Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia in the 1960s and 1970s. This measure also misses the professional public in the light of the activities already carried out in the framework of the project on the construction of cooperative dwellings in Rakova Jelša. We also believe in the List of Marjan Šarc that such a measure would further contribute to the implementation of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. In the List of Marjan Šarca, we welcome the efforts and concrete measures aimed at solving the housing problem. We are in this kind of debate, and we will always act as a constructive interlocutor. We stress, however, that adequate housing policy represents only a stone in the mosaic of a broader consensus between representatives of all social groups – young, elderly, socially endangered. The interests of social groups are very intertwined. For young and socially disadvantaged people with adequate housing, we co-create conditions for the creation of independent lives and allow them to join active representatives of society, which consequently affects the strengthening of intergenerational relations, which form the basis for the creation of intergenerational solidarity. This also creates the conditions for quality and active ageing that strengthens the ability to live decently, and especially enables the elderly to strengthen their position as full members of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u256	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The Housing Law was passed in 2003 and has not changed significantly since then. He was undergoing minor changes and complemented, but unfortunately he did not wait for a complete renovation. The housing problem in Slovenia is pressing and housing policies and problems need to be addressed in a comprehensive and systematic manner. At the time of the previous government, a new comprehensive Housing Law went to public hearing, which unfortunately did not await its legislative path due to the suspension of the mandate. Although they had a written law at the Ministry of Environment and Space which addressed housing issues in a comprehensive and systematic manner, they preferred not to accede to the comprehensive revision of the legislation and to introduce into the law only certain solutions which they considered necessary. The solutions that the law draws from the previous proposal are addressed in the areas of governance, property relations, leases, housing rentals and rental subsidies. In view of the objectives and proposed solutions in the Group of Social Democrats, we consider that the proposal is weak and does not address some important issues. We remain detained until some of the solutions are proposed, and some of them are totally unacceptable to us. Of course, if the law receives sufficient support in the first reading, it may be possible to amend or supplement the proposed amendments, but this is not what we want and what we expect. The problems of housing policies must be addressed comprehensively and systematically. We have been waiting too long for the changes that are urgently needed; and when we have the opportunity to do so in full, the government or the department does not do so. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we remain skeptical of the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u258	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! For years, the area of housing policy in Slovenia has been seriously neglected. We have come so far that those who feel that we do not have housing policies are not at all so wrong. Housing policy, even in recent times, could be said to have sat itself in many ways. Housing is lacking, prices are very high and this is felt most by the most vulnerable groups of people and those who for the first time solve their housing issue. The very objective of providing multiple rental apartments, in particular those of the public, has been to include several governments, particularly the lions, in the coalition contract. Nor is the current government an exception in this sense, so in the SMC we are really pleased to see today a novel of the Housing Law, with which we will actually take an important step forward in the area of housing policy. The bill contains some solutions that we have been looking forward to and are the first move to help young and young families resolve their housing issue. Nevertheless, we must be frank. We have before us a novel of the Housing Law, a comprehensive overhaul of the Housing Law, which was created during the SMC and Minister Zajc's ministry, and is still waiting at the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the SMC, however, we welcome the good solutions that are also included in this bill. This is an increase in non-profit rent by revalorating the point, increasing the indebtedness of housing funds and setting up a public rental service. In our view, these measures will certainly help to increase the tenant housing fund, and the bill also provides for positive changes in the management of multi-housing buildings and in the area of ownership relations. Among other things, it foresees very welcome and long-awaited changes in the area of the required share of the consent of the floor owners in certain interventions in multi-housing buildings and mandatory fiduciary accounts for the multi-housing building reserve fund. As already pointed out, we support the proposed changes in the SMC, but we would also like to see the proposed law address the area of rental relations and the management of multi-housing buildings even more comprehensively. That is why, in this place, it is also a pleasant appeal to the current minister that we all approach the full recast of the Housing Law as soon as possible. In the light of energy efficiency and an effective transition to renewable energy, in the SMC, we want to find a solution, either in the legislative process below or in the context of the new Housing Law, to agree on the establishment of real rights in common parts for certain level owners, for the purpose of setting up or installing new installations or equipment, i.e. in the case of a solar power plant or, for example, a heat pump. In addition, we would like the competent ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to prepare a draft resolution on the guarantee scheme, which would, in particular, enable young and young families to resolve the housing issue even more easily. In the SMC, we believe that the proposal for a law is absolutely appropriate for further consideration and we fully support it. After all, as coalition partners, we committed ourselves to reforming housing policy, increasing the housing fund, focusing on young and young families, and establishing a systemic source of housing and raising budgetary resources. We are confident that by adopting the amendments to the Housing Law, we will make a significant contribution to this and make significant progress in the area that has, unfortunately, been on the sidelines for many years. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u260	Thank you very much and very much! I'll start with a little broader introduction. In 1990, in Slovenia, 30% of all apartments were rented. Then, by privatisation following a rapid procedure, with the so-called Jazbinšk Law, the share of public rentals in Slovenia has decreased to 3% in only 10 years. Slovenia is currently a European country, I think we are even in the first place in the European Union after how few public rentals we have. If you go a little north of us, to Austria or Germany, you will see that there is a percentage of public rentals above what we had in 1990, that is 30%. And that's where the problem came in. If an apartment in Yugoslav socialism was perceived as some kind of right to a roof over the head, the Slovenian Constitution considers it a right after all, privatisation and capitalism have turned it into goods. It is said that, from a social right, the apartment has been turned into a completely marketable commodity in which only the market can be affected and which can only be traded on the market, not on the basis of needs, but on the basis of the ability to pay. And so we slowly got into today's situation where, if you look around you, even after major cities in Slovenia, the prices of apartments fly to the sky. In Ljubljana and along the coast, you will also find some cellars that go for half the minimum wage and more. The most obvious consequence of the privatisation of the public housing fund is the chronic lack of public rental housing, which is a condition that the state can regulate rent prices in any way and beyond. In fact, rent prices and housing prices should be read together. If rents are high, it is also high in housing prices, because, as you probably know, a lot of people buy apartments in Slovenia today as an investment. Two of my acquaintances who sell the apartment say that virtually everyone else who comes says, "I buy it as an investment, not buying this apartment for myself, but buying it to rent it. There are also those who come with foreign capital, you will meet a lot of Russians recently in Ljubljana, who are buying apartments as an investment in this purely true sense, only because of speculation that the prices of real estate in this city or in Slovenia will continue to rise. To buy 200 grand today, three years from now, this could be worth more and it's worth it. And now that productive investments are lacking for people with capital, housing is usually an investment in which capital is withdrawn at such times. Also from Germany, if you read the reports, it has been reported that during the complete economic contraction last year real estate prices practically increased throughout Germany, as capital just withdrew into investments there. The key task that the State of Slovenia should perform under such circumstances is to build at least a minimum fund for public rentals as soon as possible. Research shows that there are approximately 10 000 people missing from public rental apartments in Slovenia, of which 6 000 700 are in urban municipalities, 4 000 200 in the Municipality of Ljubljana. And public rentals haven't been built in years. At the same time, on the other hand, the rich market for commercial rental apartments, where rents fly to the sky and the prices of apartments fly to the sky, the youngest generation who are now entering the labour market and who would like to arrange a roof over their heads. Those with regular jobs are still receiving loans that will be repaid for 20, 25 years. They don't even get credit in their pens. It is absolutely imperative that the state arranges this in a way that begins to build public rental apartments and above that ground the prices of real estate and rental prices. Another consequence of this privatisation in the 1990s is the difficult management and maintenance of multi-housing buildings, which are now heavily fragmented all over Slovenia and therefore poses a major problem in reaching consensus for construction operations, energy renovations and other major maintenance and investment works. And all I have said now are the facts in the light of which we need to judge the novel of the Housing Law that we are considering today. In the opinion of the Left, this also contains both good solutions and some that are unacceptable to us and will be taken up in the following points. In Levica, we first welcome the regulations adopted by law in the area of property law relations, the management of multi-housing buildings and the related inspection controls. We also welcome the increase in the possibility of borrowing public housing funds, which will lead to debt capital that will enable public housing to be built. And this is a solution that we have already proposed in 2017. We welcome the changes in non-profit rent subsidies, in particular the weighting of the minimum income to calculate the subsidy for single-member households, and the raising of the maximum non-profit rent subsidy from 80 % to 85 % of the non-profit rent and the raising of the subsidy to market rent. We also agree with the gradual increase in the value of the point to determine the value of the non-profit rent from 2.63 euros to 3.5 euros and the forecast of annual coordination. This will raise stagnant non-profit rents, but, as it is said, the subsidy increases simultaneously, so that it will not affect low-income households; on the other hand, it will allow the funds to start at least about their own apartments, which they own, to depreciate because the problem is that the non-profit rent has not been harmonised for nearly 15 years. And if you listen to housing fund managers, they will tell you all over Slovenia that not only do they have no investments, their income from non-profit rent is so low that they have no money to depreciate what they currently own. Then there were various bypasses that the housing funds had investment money they had instead of investing in non-profit apartments in the construction of luxury market apartments in order to obtain funds for their basic business by selling them. This is a story, say the Novo Brdo project in Ljubljana. In this way, housing funds have also contributed to the deterioration of already bad trends in the real estate market, so it was essential that this situation be rectified. However, the law also has something for us that is unacceptable. The first, which is unclear, is the shortening of the notice period in the event of a delay in the payment of the rent and the shortening of the time limit for eviction in this case determined by the court. Here you have to say, Slovenia is according to international indicators, you will find them best explained on the Global Property Guide web platform, which countries categorize as how their legislation is adapted to renters or lessors, you will see this picture there. In the European Union, 15 countries have legislation that is favourable to the tenants. These are the countries that have the best-ordered housing policy – Scandinavian countries, Germany, Austria and so on, they are usually countries that have a strong public lease fund. Then there are six countries that have a neutral policy where the power relationship between the lessor and the lessor is approximately levelled; and six countries that have legislation for tenants is extremely unfavourable. And, of course, Slovenia is among the latter, among the countries which already have some kind of unfavourable legislation for tenants. If you want proof or some illustration of life, look around and ask the people you know and rent an apartment, who has a contract for long-term rental in a market apartment. Not in a public rental, but in a market. I've been renting apartments myself for almost ten years, and I've never had a contract that's longer than a year. For one year it is being renewed and the tenant is not in any way protected from rising prices. When the contract ends at the end of the year, you start negotiating for a new one; and if you don't agree to a price hike, the lessor just replaces you with someone else. I know a lot of people who have been in very plentiful situations during the coronary crisis, and their lenders during the crisis, even though these people, the tenants, suffered a loss of income, increased their rent prices. We do not understand why in this case the power ratios, which are already fully in favour of the lenders in Slovenia, would increase. Additional power is given only by the fact that rental apartments are lacking on the market; and because they are rare, prices are rising or can raise prices. Here we should go in the opposite direction, forcing the tenants to rent the apartment for long-term rent or at least medium-term rent, and for renters to have some power within this arrangement to negotiate conditions of stay, price and others; not that their contracts change each year. Another controversial solution to the law is the public rental of apartments. We've got questions here, in particular. The law foresees that the Housing Fund will rent apartments in which it will play the role of an intermediary, manager and tenant manager, who will rent them from private individuals and be able to pay for 30% more than a non-profit rent. The question that arises here is this. Why are these apartments, where the Housing Fund will rent apartments, on the market empty? I think that this solution is supposed to be empty because at the time, with the Law of Jasbinsk, people who are probably already in years and are no longer concerned about what kind of apartment they get and is empty, but who alone have no will or energy to deal with it; and therefore will give it to the Housing Fund for public rent. The Housing Fund will fully relieve them of any obligations with regard to this apartment. I think that's the assumption on which it's written. But as I said at the outset, the problem is that investors enter Slovenia, especially Ljubljana, who do not have empty apartments because they would be in years and powerless to deal with them, but who explicitly buy apartments as an investment. In this respect, we are concerned that this trend will deteriorate further. If someone who can live on the expectation that prices on the market will continue to increase, they would be able to afford as some kind of speculative investment, in fact they would be paid to give this flat simply to the Housing Fund and be burdened by any obligation in this regard. In fact, he gets a state subsidy for this his speculative investment. And this is a question for the Ministry, and I'm wondering how it's going to answer that. If I withdraw, we will, due to some reservations about this law, especially the last two which I have said, abstain in the first reading, and in the second, we will table amendments to try to correct the shortcomings of the law or things that we do not think are right; and we will bind our support in view of the adoption of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law primarily solves the most pressing problems in the area of multi-housing buildings, non-profit rentals and rental apartments. I am afraid, however, that the changes introduced in these areas by the proposal of the law are only a means of putting the fire out. A more comprehensive overhaul of the Housing Law will soon require further discussion. The bill reduces the required consensus in the area of multi-housing buildings, making it easier to carry out various maintenance works and reconstruction works in multi-housing buildings. Following the current regulation, it is virtually impossible to obtain agreement on construction works in common parts of the building for which a building permit has to be obtained, since it is necessary to obtain agreement from all the floor owners, it is said to be 100%, while the new bill reduces the required consent by only more than 75% of the floor owners. Of course, it should be pointed out that the proposal for a law provides for legal protection for the voting of an essential owner who will be able to challenge the decision in an unfair proceeding before a court of law. The possibility of e-voting high-level owners on the management of a multi-family building will certainly help to speed up negotiations and consensus-building. In the area of non-profit rents, the bill increases the value of the point as a basis for determining non-profit rent, from the current value of 2.63 euros to 3.50 euros, with a three-year transitional period with a gradual increase. However, following the implementation of the full height of the dwelling point, the annual alignment of the point with the increase in the cost of living is envisaged. The value of the point has not changed since the adoption of the euro, i.e. since 2007, due to the absence of a legal basis. As a result, the real value of the non-profit rent fell year after year and simply no longer covered the necessary costs of using the apartment. After fourteen years, the situation is so hot that housing funds and municipalities sell non-profit apartments, since they are no longer able to cover the cost of using the apartment, and at the same time there is no interest in the construction or purchase of new rental apartments. This is also the main reason why waiting periods for the granting of a non-profit apartment only extend. The table below shows that on the basis of the higher value of the point, a non-profit rent of 65 square metres would increase from the current 253.50 euros to 337,35 euros. The bill also foresees an increase in non-profit rent subsidies, which means that the amount of rent would not be increased for those weakest families in particular. The main objective of the bill is to address the pressing problem of housing shortages. In Nova Slovenija, we strongly hope that, at the expense of the increase in the point of non-profit rent and the ability to increase the indebtedness of housing funds in the medium and long term in Slovenia, a substantial number of public apartments will be built. In the short term, however, it is necessary to activate existing unoccupied dwellings as quickly as possible. By the way, there is an estimate that there are as many as 25,000 such apartments in Ljubljana. In Nova Slovenija, we hope that by means of a public rental service, unlike new constructions, it will be possible to provide as many new public rental apartments as possible, since the financial implications are significantly lower than the possible investment in the construction of an additional 2 000 public rental apartments, provided by the public rental service since 2025. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to pay the owner a maximum of 1,3 times the non-profit rent for comparable housing. In practice, this means that the owner would receive a maximum of €438 via the public rental service by renting an apartment in Ljubljana, 65 square metres, while the owner would be able to deliver it for €550 to €900 on the market. In the case of the law, therefore, it is not an infringement of the free market for dwellings that are already being handed over in one way or another, but rather an incentive to give up those dwellings that would otherwise remain empty because the owners are older or people who do not want to deal with red tape are afraid of problematic tenants and so on. In New Slovenia, we believe that other measures, particularly in the field of tax policy, should be introduced in order to free up other rental apartments, in particular the reduction in the tax rate for renting apartments, as this, thanks to the previous government, represents as much as 27.5%. As a result, many apartments turn out in black or do not give out at all. Moreover, greater protection of owners will also be needed to increase the interest of owners in renting apartments. A number of comments were made by local communities on the proposal. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that the proposal of the law offers municipalities more resources for the construction of new rental apartments due mainly to higher non-profit rents and the possibility of more indebtedness of housing funds. Let me stress, however, that part of the financial burden on municipalities in the area of housing has also been taken away from the Law on the Deploration of Communities, in which the total cost of subsidisation of market rents from municipalities has been transferred to the state budget, and the municipalities have also received higher averages. We have stated in the New Slovenia programme that every citizen, in particular families with children, must have a realistic opportunity to ensure at least a minimum standard of living, in their own apartment, rented apartment or apartment house. The affordable housing must be part of the promise of the welfare of the social market economy. Since at least part of the proposal goes in this direction, in Nova Slovenija we believe it is suitable as such for further consideration, where we will try to improve it further with our proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u264	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The existing housing law entered into force in October 2003. The law, which replaced the so-called 1991 Jasbin law, is still in force today and has been amended and amended four times in these years. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law, which the Government adopted and submitted to the National Assembly in January. The amendment of the law thus again merely partially interferes with certain parts of the housing policy. A key amendment to the law is the harmonisation of the non-profit rent, which will gradually increase by 33% for the first time since 2007. In comparison, a large apartment will have to pay EUR 239 for a new 45 square metres, so far 179. In doing so, the rent subsidy will increase to a maximum of 85 % of the recognised non-profit rent. So far, this limit has been 80%. At the same time, subsidies for renting market apartments will also increase. One of the main reasons for the collapse of the public rental fund is the inadequate amount of non-profit rent, which makes it impossible for the funds to maintain the existing housing fund, let alone invest in the construction of new ones. The existing non-profit rent does not cover the costs of the operation of the Fund, nor does the State provide funds to cover and recover the unpaid liabilities of the tenants for which the subsidiary fund guarantees. It would be appropriate for the State to take over and provide funds if it imposes such obligations. At the Ministry, it is estimated that there are now 20 to 30 000 privately owned dwellings in the country that are not located on the rental market. There is no accurate data, as there is no cadastre of housing use which would allow the state and local communities to monitor developments in the housing rental market and react to anomalies, in this sense to unreasonable real-time prices. Part of this solution will be the establishment of a promised public rental service that will enable the earliest rental of many vacant apartments that are unoccupied. The fund will rent apartments on the market and rent them further. With the role of an intermediary, manager and tenant manager, it will relieve housing owners of all transactions and risks associated with the granting of housing. An additional opportunity is presented by apartments that are in relatively poor condition, but could be activated by moderate investment. Unfortunately, the bill does not address them. Thus, the public rental service could assume the role of an institution that would restore and restore the facility to function, thus taking over some of the functions of public-private partnership as we know it in the case of energy contracting and being carried out in the case of a number of public buildings such as schools, libraries and other public buildings. In the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, it is estimated that almost a quarter of the rental apartments are illegally leased. The reasons differ from high and high taxes to the unpredictability of the rental relationship and mechanisms should be put in place to establish and strengthen trust between lenders and tenants. The SAB priority is housing for young people who, due to precarious forms of employment and unreasonablely high rents and housing prices, have difficulties in self-reliance. A clear signal from the government regarding measures and the achievement of the objectives of the real estate market is therefore essential to make rents and equity more accessible. In the SAB, we take the problem of housing very seriously, and we regret that instead of a comprehensive renovation of housing legislation, the government has only adopted some, otherwise welcome amendments. The Government also agreed, inter alia, to the mandatory separate fiduciary accounts for the reserve fund of each multi-inhabitation building separately, to reduce the number of necessary consents of the key owners for improvements and construction works requiring the building permit and to reduce the cancellation deadlines of the lease. During the changes, they also highlighted the preliminary right of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to sell walled municipal land intended for multi-residential construction. As enshrined in the Constitution, the state is creating opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. It follows that it should operate actively and mediate on the real estate market when anomalies occur. However, this is not possible without the possibility to review the situation on the market in real time. As we explain to ourselves Slovenians and Slovenians that in times of crisis, when people lost their income, the security of their jobs has become less finished and many apartments are unoccupied, real estate prices are rising. The enslavement of generations with 30-year loans is not an answer that the state and government could be proud of. Therefore, at the level of the country, the target rent levels should be defined, including indirect housing prices, and measures should be adapted accordingly. In this way, non-profit rents would increase slightly, and in proportion to this, subsidies to beneficiaries, which is essential, would fall to market rents. We will therefore not oppose the proposal in the SAB, but we expect the government to take measures to address the issue in an integrated manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For more than a decade in Slovenia, we have been facing a significant deficit in public rentals. Offering public housing simply does not follow demand; access to suitable housing is also difficult. This problem is particularly acute in young, socially weak and other vulnerable groups. According to available data, at national level there is a need for almost 10,000 additional public rental apartments, 600 housing units and at least 500 housing units. The proportion of private dwellings is very high, which makes it difficult to make decisions related to the maintenance of the housing fund. As a result, the housing fund is old and we have come into a situation where it does not meet the energy and functional standards of modern society and increases the cost of living. The basic reason for the collapse of the public rental fund is the low non-profit rent. Since the value of the point for certain non-profit rents has not been realised or coordinated for 13 years, this rent does not allow owners to cover housing costs. Existing non-profit rents thus do not allow housing owners to maintain the scope of the existing public rental fund and there is no interest in investment in the construction of new public housing. It even happens that public rental apartments are sold and purchases are used to cover the material costs of the operation of public housing funds and municipalities. The failure to harmonise the value of the point threatens the existence and functioning of public housing funds and therefore it is necessary to act in a direction that will enable the Funds to manage the public housing fund in a cost-effective manner. In order to ensure a balanced supply of suitable dwellings, it is also important to activate existing but uninhabited dwellings and thus at least partially increase the number of usable dwellings. Statistics show that the number of dwellings in Slovenia exceeds the number of households. In the country, about 20% of the housing fund is uninhabited, but many owners of their apartments do not want to rent on the market either because they fear that a tenant who does not pay rent and costs or otherwise violates the lease will not be able to move out of the apartment. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the novelty solution that, despite the realization of the value of the point, which will result in a higher rent, the subsidy will increase accordingly to the users of the apartment. This solution will have nothing to do with the social situation of the weak, including pensioners, which seems crucial to us. We also think that the creation of a so-called public rental service is a good solution in the novel, as many people, especially the elderly, do not want to rent the apartment right now for reasons of legal certainty. In this way, both legal certainty and financial benefits will be enjoyed by landlords from the Housing Fund. The recovery and resistance plan provides for a financial injection of EUR 100 million. Thus, in combination with legal solutions in the area of housing policy over the next ten years, about 10,000 new public rental apartments are to be obtained, which we very much welcome in the DeSUS Group. The Novela also improves the conditions of management of dwellings, since it accurately delimits the tasks of managers. One good solution is to reduce the consent of the floor owners from 100% to 75% for some jobs and to 50% for the rest of the maintenance works, thus allowing easier and faster search for agreement between individual floor owners and, consequently, a smaller possibility of blocking and delaying some of the floor owners in maintenance parts of residential buildings. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the novelty is an important step towards modernising housing legislation, as it solves some of the most pressing problems and therefore we welcome it. However, we expect to find answers or solutions to questions that this novel did not address in a short time and have been highlighted by various associations dealing with housing and politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u268	President, I'm sorry, but once you mentioned that someone had to disinfect here first, so I'm a little late. Thank you. We have before us a new law that interferes with a wide range of areas. It interferes with the regulation of contract law on housing issues, the problems of regulating relations between senior owners and even repeals one law. As regards the determination of the value of the point, we will not be able to define this, because it is a professional decision and it can always be subject to construction as well as subject to praise. As regards the shortening of the notice period from 90 to 60 days, we warmly welcome it. Once the relationship between the parties has been shaken, it makes no sense to set the time limit for 90 days. There are also very welcome changes concerning building managers. Because of past non-transparent activities, their reputation in society is well established. It is right to subject themselves to stricter control mechanisms. With regard to the resolution of housing policy through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which will take the latter from the owners of the apartments and continue to rent these apartments, it is a good solution. Such an approach will certainly fill a wide range of vacant properties with people again. It is about fulfilling the basic function of the building itself, as it is intended for people. Existing owners will thus be relieved of all transactions and risks related to the granting of housing, and in the long term, such a decision will ensure that they receive regular income. In doing so, we draw attention to the upgrade of the proposed solution, following the example of other European countries. The buildings in the strict city centres often have vast areas on the attic. The State or the municipality could offer these owners to rebuild the entire building on their own account and, in return for such an investment, would enter ownership rights in the attic. The next step would be to arrange apartments in these empty and untapped spaces. These premises could be offered to students as well as to interested tenants and all costs would be covered in the long term by renting. There is virtually no defeat in such a system, because every person acquires something. The space is getting smaller and it is not always the right way to deal with housing problems through new constructions, as they are only affected by the real estate market. However, we are building a decision that the burden of the reserve fund still requires the consent of all the top-level owners. The funds of the reserve fund are strictly earmarked funds and often the only possible means of carrying out the investment. There is a great deal of difficulty in the field where, because of only one disagreement, the manager cannot burden the reserve fund and with the funds obtained, the manager could start an investment, so it has to wait years and years for sufficient funds to be raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u270	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker, esteemed colleague and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing Law. Amendments to the Housing Act will help to strengthen the Public Housing Fund. The basic innovations that will stop the reduction in the number of public rental apartments and allow new ones to be acquired, the establishment of a public rental service allows the maximum borrowing of housing funds, the harmonisation of the amount of non-profit rent and the adjustment of the subsidisation system that will protect socially disadvantaged households. The Housing Law mainly pursues the following essential strategic objectives: decentralisation and consistent regional development, the rule of law of housing policy, the increase of the tenancy fund, with emphasis on young and young families, the establishment of a source for housing construction, the harmonisation of non-profit rent, the harmonisation of the value of the point from the existing value of 2.63 euros to the new value of 3.33 euros, and gradually in a three-year period of time to 4 euros, the adjustment of the rent subsidy scheme to protect socially vulnerable people while harmonising non-profit rent, the implementation of public rentals, the mandatory separate accounts for the reserve fund of each multi-resident building, the reduction of the necessary consent of the essential owners to improve and the construction work for which a building permit is required, the reduction of the cancellation deadlines of the rental contract, the possible higher borrowing of housing funds, the pre-primary consent of the civil servants to the construction fund. In Slovenia we face a marked shortage of rental apartments, especially for young, older and socially disadvantaged groups. The amendment of the Housing Act therefore allows for the construction of an adequate number of affordable public rental apartments. The changes will help to strengthen the public housing fund. This will be possible by setting up a public rental service, harmonising the amount of non-profit rent and adapting the subsidisation scheme to protect socially disadvantaged households. There are also many empty apartments in Slovenia, which owners do not want to place on the market for various reasons. The amendment of the housing law establishes a public rental service, which will have the role of an intermediary, manager and tenant. It will relieve the owners of risks and ensure that they receive certain regular incomes. This will enable those who have reservations to decide on the issue to do so. Amendments to the Housing Law allow the State and the municipalities additional means of implementing housing policy. Thus, investment promotes interest in the construction of new homes for young families, making it easier and faster for waiting applicants to get a suitable home. The new Housing Fund also provides a legal basis for increased indebtedness of public funds, both to municipal and state funds. According to the new one, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia would be indebted to up to 50% of its intended assets, and up to 50% could also be indebted to municipal public housing funds. We estimate that the additional debt under the scheme would amount to approximately EUR 200 million, which could allow investment in the construction of about a thousand 700 new dwellings. The additional debt will take place gradually and will depend on the planned construction projects. There is also a slightly faster possibility of cancellation of the lease in the event of non-payment of rent or expenses within the time limit. The cancellation period of the leases shall also be reduced for both the owner and the lessor. Dear Secretary of State, votes in favour of the amendment of the law are guaranteed in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First he gets the word Edward Paulic, then he gets the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my opinion, the Institute of General Discussion is not used enough in the National Assembly. This is an opportunity for us to exchange our views on a particular social area and to see if this area needs to be regulated. We can certainly agree that housing policy is one of those topics that needs a general debate. Housing issues are affecting all generations. The younger generation is faced with this when it wants to solve the housing problem for the first time, but it has neither sufficient resources nor sufficient housing on the market. This is pure market logic. The price is determined by supply and demand. Although it is not obvious at first sight, the elderly face housing problems. If I give one example, a lot of older people are left alone in larger family homes or apartments, and they want to, say, go to a nursing home and not be available. One possibility of a partial solution to this housing problem could be a cooperative form of residential communities that have been adapted to living, for example, older citizens, which we do not know in Slovenia or even have a legal basis, as far as I know it. In the LMŠ, we welcome the efforts and adoption of concrete measures aimed at addressing the housing problem. The draft new housing law had already been prepared during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. Although the current government has taken over certain solutions in the novel, not all of them. The draft law of the previous government provided, for example, that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia would offer guarantees for loans to citizens who for the first time solve the housing problem, and that the form of employment or the amount of income would not allow them to obtain credit on their own. In the event that the borrower could no longer repay, the repayment of the debt would have taken over the housing fund while wetting the beneficiary to stay in the apartment on the basis of the lease for an indefinite period of time. And this tenant would pay the rent. Today, for example, a younger couple who want to buy apartments must take a mortgage on real estate, the bank usually also requires a marriage. If this guarantee were taken over by the housing fund, it would be much easier for young people, or those who first solve the housing problem, to get to the credit. At the same time, this would also provide them with a certain degree of security in the event of some unforeseen events affecting their social or economic situation. Unfortunately, there is no loan guarantee in today's new law. One of the changes I also miss is the proposal to improve the single register of building managers. I know that there is already a register of managers under current legislation, but I think it could be further improved. Given that as a company, we seek to digitise all systems. The former government provided for an electronic public register of administrators of residential buildings to be established and managed by the Ministry of Environment and Space. This solution seems to me particularly in terms of the safety of the owners of the apartments, as it would be a credible public information. The owners of apartments on the market would be easier to find managers. On the other hand, managers would be subject to healthier or greater competition and would further reduce the possibility of unfair business practices of certain managers. The applicant retains the term “non-profit rent” and increases the value of the point that determines the amount of this rent. At the same time, it also foresees an increase in the non-profit rent subsidy. Here I would like to point out the point raised by some experts in this area. The question is where and what will be the limit that determines who will receive the new higher subsidy and who will fall into the group of those who will pay the higher rent after the new one. We must be aware that, for example, the average four-member family, which earns a monthly circus of EUR 2 000 200, will pay EUR 340 for a new apartment, 65 square metres, instead of 250. Therefore, while increasing the value of the point and at the same time raising the subsidy, the real question is who will be affected by such a measure in practice. We should also take into account the fact that we do not know how long this economic crisis is going to take us. Nor does the proposal contain the legal basis for the establishment of housing cooperatives, which I have already mentioned in the introduction that they represent one of the ways of solving the housing problem for individual social groups abroad. This has been regulated by the previous draft law, and it seems a pity that the proposaler did not take it, especially if we know that in Europe we know several forms of housing society, which in most developing countries have a long tradition. There are different cooperative models, they can be owned, leased or combined. If I finally touch on the establishment of a public rental service, which, on behalf of the owners of the apartments, will manage, manage and maintain them. This aims to increase the broadcasting of empty apartments and eliminate the reservations of owners, such as fear of the inability to evict tenants, fear of the problems of termination of the lease, fear of destruction of apartments and the like. Personally, I do not believe that this will be a sufficient incentive to put these owners on the market. If they wanted to rent the apartment, they'd do it on the market, not on the rent. In 2022, in 2023 500, in 2024 thousands and in 2025 as many as 2,000 apartments, the novelist predicts that the public service would receive 100 in 2022, in 2023 500. I am sure that this forecast is unrealistic, but it would be feasible if, on a model from abroad, a tax relief were introduced in case the owner turned over an empty apartment. And I did not follow this proposal in this amendment to the law. If I finish this slowly. While the bill contains quite a few good solutions that will at least partially help to improve the housing problem, I think it is too ambitious. This area needs to be fully regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, and he's going to be debated by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. The area that we are dealing with now, I think, is very important and one of the key areas that should be given much more time and attention. The fact is, since 1991, since the so-called Yazbinski Law, very little has been done in the area of caring for the establishment of a network of rental apartments. If we had been in a very good position until 1990, until the establishment of the capitalist social order, because we had a very high average, then it was said, a social housing fund, then at the time of the Demos' government, with this so-called Jasbinsk law, this entire housing fund was sold out to the current users. This actually solved the housing problem of that generation – we have nothing to say here – but at the same time, everyone else was stranded and this rental fund was sold out. And what is the result? Today in the Republic of Slovenia we have more than 90 % share of ownership apartments. I'm just going to illustrate this as an example, for example, in Germany this percentage is 51. That is to say, far above the average of the European Union and European countries, we have a share of ownership dwellings, which is by no means good and is, above all, a very big problem for young people, young families, so that they can become independent and move away on their own. The big problem was that the public housing fund was, until a few years ago, for example, over the last 10 years, primarily building for sale, which is not intended. The aim is to establish some public housing fund, which would be built for renting after a non-profit lease rather than for sale. The former government has prepared a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the area of housing law. Unfortunately, the early end of this government has not led to adoption. The proposal that we are considering today also brings some good solutions. If I said otherwise, I wouldn't be telling the truth. However, we believe that the area should be regulated more comprehensively. Above all, however, more resources should be allocated to the construction of apartments intended for public, non-profit rents. This is crucial because in the Republic of Slovenia we also have an average share of GDP in the area of construction of these dwellings. As long as we don't have any more resources to do this, we're gonna have a hard time solving this. But it's true, as I said, that this bill regulates certain things. You set up rental relationships, you regulate relationships between the top-level owners within a multi-entity building. Public employment is also a major contribution. In this way, owners of non-resident properties could also be able to make sure that some of this service, a state, is simplified, that this apartment is put into a longer-term lease. It is also important that the law allows for greater indebtedness to housing funds. Many housing funds – I can talk mainly about the Ljubljana Housing Fund, they constantly point out that the problem is that they cannot be more indebted than they can and thus cannot build additional housing. You need to know that the biggest problem is in Ljubljana. Out of 10,000 of these non-profit rental apartments currently lacking throughout the country, in view of the needs that appear through the call for proposals, and probably even greater needs, there are 4 000 missing apartments in Ljubljana alone. The projections show that this number would increase significantly by 2025. If I do. This law is certainly a step in the right direction, but it is not a step in the right direction. In fact, things should be much more ambitious, in particular providing more additional resources for this area. There are also some controversial solutions that the Social Democrats cannot support and will be amended, such as shortening the notice between the lessee and the lessee. This is absolutely unacceptable in our view. So today we will abstain from this reading. But we will see what will actually improve in the course of the procedure in the law itself, and then we will see how to act. Among other things, these alternative solutions to housing problems do not appear anywhere, such as cooperatives. This is one of the most important alternatives to providing or solving housing problems. You can't solve this. For example, the mayor of Vienna, a social-democratic city, has been a social-democrat for many years. There really is a housing problem that is exemplaryly solved.And one of the solutions is housing cooperatives. This is not the case, and in some ways we would imagine that these things are also being introduced into this legislation. I welcome, however, that something has finally begun to move in this area and I hope that we will come up with some solutions so that we will be at least approximately comparable to the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich will discuss Branko Simonovich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today’s theme is really important, broad and addresses three key themes. One is essentially the relationship between the owners of apartments in multi-housing buildings. Remember, the Jazbinšk Law allowed the privatisation of the State Housing Fund, otherwise the law was well-intentioned, but did not foresee any problems that would arise because it anticipated that the owners would be responsible and would also unanimously maintain and participate in the maintenance of the facility. Today we know that views of what needs to be done are as much as owners, and it is very difficult in residential buildings to get consent to do anything to make improvements. There is no preoccupation everywhere, some simply do not have the means to maintain, because there has never been any awareness that property is related to costs and maintenance. If you look at one 150 square apartment in Maribor now worth almost 100,000 euros and in Ljubljana it goes to 200 000 euros in certain cases, then we know that if you just bill depreciation, you should pay 100 euros a month to the reserve fund. These payments, which are happening today and we are witnessing them, are not high enough to maintain this fund, which we know is 30, 40 years old and will also become permanent. And these are the challenges that will have to be addressed. In this light, we also welcome in the SAB these changes that you have prepared in order to ensure the effective management and maintenance of multi-housing buildings. Another issue is the amount of non-profit rent that we know is inadequate and does not allow maintenance of the housing fund. Housing funds are facing a number of challenges. If you look at the structure of how the non-profit rent is made up, you will not see inside the cost of operating the housing fund. The fact that the housing fund works costs, and the congregation generally does not provide it with special funds, but it gets it from the rent. If this is not included in the structure of the non-profit rent, then it means that it takes up its operation from the means of maintenance. That's one thing. The Housing Fund also provides subsidiary guarantees for the debts of its tenants, to Elektra, to Vodvod, sewerage. And this, of course, also presents one particular problem. No item for the reserve fund is included in the non-profit rent. The non-profit housing reserve fund should be at least EUR 10, 20, but this is not included anywhere in these items, which is an additional maintenance problem. If you look at how this non-profit rent is accounted for. So older than an apartment, it's lower, but there's always more investment to be made. And of course this is a very big problem. The second thing I see is that the speakers don't understand it most when someone says we're going to increase the possibility of borrowing a housing fund on the market. While this is welcome, the creditworthiness of the housing fund is assessed on the basis of income. While increasing rents will make the housing fund slightly more creditable, we must be aware that the bank can set up an apartment worth €100,000 on the market for only €20,000, because the bank recognises such creditworthiness on the basis of the revenues it generates and risks. And this is also a certain matter that will have to be addressed systematically. The fourth area to be addressed below is the activation of empty apartments. We know that one apartment is empty and, I will say, adequately maintained because people are afraid of inadequate legislation and legal certainty in the rental relationship to put it on the market and others may be neglected and not suitable for broadcasting. And also these apartments, I think it might be even more attractive for these owners to be offered by the state somehow to rent them, somehow arrange them, get them into some normal state of use, conclude a contract with this owner for 10, 15 years, the state manages them, repays its obligations, after 15 years, 20 years of these apartments, which are derelict, then returns them to the property and ownership of the existing owner. This is very important to me. More importantly, it is important to once again establish a register of dwellings, that we have information about the situation on the housing market, which apartments are occupied, which are not. Until we have this information, we can create a hundred and one strategy and we will not know what the effects of our actions are. We have the same problem in health care when we don't know what kind of waiting lists are in doctors. It's the same in retirement homes when we don't know what kind of waitings are for home. And we have the same problem today that we don't know what the situation is in our housing fund, which is an empty apartment, which isn't, which is broadcast through different platforms that I'm not personally fond of. I don't think housing blocks should be allowed to turn into hotels. This can't be a matter of agreement of residents in the bloc, but it's a spatial plan. If a spatial plan permits an apartment, no one can turn it into a hotel and deform the space so permanently. I think this is a matter that the state will have to address as soon as possible and effectively. As far as the list of housing use is concerned. Given that we have a cadastral establishment and that the Geodetic Administration is leading some things, it would be very easy to establish these matters. We should also simplify evaluation models. We have one criterion for determining prices as defined by a non-profit rent after one point, then we have a model for determining the general market value, from which other benefits are fixed in legal traffic, then we have a new estimated value to replace the building land and then the property tax is estimated at a quarter. The country will have to make one review and decide on one value, from which it will determine all contributions, all prices. As long as there's four different prices, then there's gonna be one big mess. I wanted to say something else, but I'm talking faster because I don't have enough time. The problem is broader, and in the SAB we will also show the proposal you have put forward in a vote of affection, and we will amend it in further procedures, and we also expect that our proposals will be adopted, which are creative and which follow that housing prices will be lowered. It is not only enough to place housing on the market, we have to lower rents, we have to lower housing prices that have no connection with people's income, and we must not allow young generations to become enslaved for 30, 40 years with loans because housing prices are inadequate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Rudi Medved, and Mr Ljubo Žnidar is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we worked together to form a housing law in the previous government. Although this government has not decided to transpose this law into Parliament, it has decided to do so. True, it must be acknowledged that many of the solutions to the draft housing law of the previous government have found their way into this amendment of the housing law. So obviously there are some good solutions. If the two governments have found that something should be implemented, it is probably not that bad. I might mention, in particular, the area of the relationship between managers and senior owners. This concerns the daily lives of people. I read somewhere an interesting observation that the building manager is what the body doctor is. In an ideal world, this could also be true, so that the manager is economical, responsive, kind, cheap and that all the top-level owners are happy with him. It's in the perfect world. I don't know. Maybe there's one. I'm even sure, even though managers somehow get a bad voice from some affair, and it's usually generally generalized that it's like all other activities. They're good and they're bad or they're bad. If someone has picked up millions from the account of the top-level owners and thus cast a shadow on everything, we can't judge that now all managers suck. There are more than 900 in Slovenia. But this relationship between high-level owners and administrators is one such interesting story, which usually begins with everything being ideal at first, at first we're all full of praise to each other, and then over the years these things change. A variety of managers and, above all, people are dissatisfied and want to replace managers, because managers, and again, I will not say that everyone, who becomes unresponsive, does not respond and slowly the top-level owners become in charge. At the end of the day, I know a case like this very close, just like the example of a good multi-annual relationship, which then eventually took off. At the end of the day, this warden cleared out an account. Although the high-level owners were good masters and careful, and although the legislation does not require a fiduciary account for the reserve fund, I know that many of the world's high-level owners have such a fiduciary account. And it also happens from such an account that money can disappear because of this excessive trust. The key owners should always be aware that the relationship with the manager, as we are all kind, cannot be friendly, but can only be business. So you need control, control, and control again. The key owners are not aware of this and are far too confident. And that trust is sometimes misused. Of course, now this legal solution with the fiduciary account is certainly good. As I say, those responsible high-level owners have already had such fiduciary accounts and that this principle of four eyes of payment of accounts is also extremely important. You know, when this discontent occurs, sometimes it's very difficult to get rid of the administrators, at home. We know the cases, I think there was one case where, after twenty cancellations, the warden still didn't want to leave that, say, position, and he refused to resign. Another one, however, was stalling after I didn't know how many cancellations, here in Ljubljana it was, so long that in the end the court decided that it had to hand over the business to the new manager. Why am I saying this? Because of the solutions that regulate these relationships and simplify certain things, the question is whether the contract between the floor owners and the manager should be an indefinite contract or, however, for a certain period of time. We have been warming up at some point for a certain period of five years in order to give this to some sort of high-level owners, not to say keep in check, but to have some kind of control relationship with the manager. True, it is a good solution, but it can also have its weaknesses a contract for an indefinite period of time. As well as a fixed-term contract. Under this contract for an indefinite period, it happened that, on the basis of the contract, the essential owners wanted to cancel the contract and they were not able to do so. However, in the case of a fixed-term contract, they will have to prove false reasons, which will also be extremely difficult. By the way, it is not just one case of empty reserve fund accounts in Slovenia. There's more of them. But I didn't actually see it, or it's just media too interesting to go to jail, maybe one of those wardens. We don't know. Maybe that's what happened, but I don't know about a case like this. That's why we leave it open somehow. We will also discuss this in the Marjana Sharca List or, however, propose the adoption of an indefinite contract. This is a matter of discussion, including discussions with as many people on the ground as possible who have direct personal experience with managers, and then we will also propose an appropriate solution. The issue of consensus is the real neural point of these relations. But we also have managers who don't make mistakes because they don't do anything. But they don't do anything because they never agree to anything. And then, of course, it's simple, they don't work for it and then they don't do anything and they don't make mistakes. I know how difficult it is to reach agreement as much as the current regime says. Many still stand for energy rehabilitation projects of buildings due to these blockades around consensus. And as we say, we also welcome this solution with a fiduciary account for the reserve fund. These solutions, offered by the amendment of the law and regulated by the relationship between managers and high-level owners, are, in our opinion, good in the proposed amendment to the law. But, of course, what I said at the outset is that we cannot legislate a good warden. He's good or he's bad. It will never be possible to prescribe everything by law and even cases of empty accounts, we probably will never be able to suppress completely. However, this is an attempt to facilitate everyday life for both high-level owners and managers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, preparing a mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, everyone's welcome! The change and improvement of the housing law is coming, I would say, the right time for us to have this marriage on the table today. If I look back at the changes and additions to the Housing Law in 2008, 2011, 2017 and 2019, these changes in the law do not result in any improvement in housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we are now in a position to find that housing in the Republic of Slovenia is significantly lacking that we have a relatively old housing fund that does not meet any energy and functional standards, and therefore the maintenance of apartments is even more expensive, and investors have no interest in investing in the construction of apartments in the public interest. It's today's condition. It has been heard from the discussions a little while ago, and apartments and rents must be cheap. Look, the apartments won't be cheap. However, the State is the regulator who, in view of the situation prevailing on the market, needs to adapt the rent to be acceptable or that young families or other families can reach a non-profit rental apartment for a decent value of money. But the country is that regulator. If I look at today's situation, there's oil on the world market. A good month ago, the armature, that's what the real iron was raised on the world market by 45%. This all results in more expensive housing. I believe that the law is necessary and that the next addition and amendment of the Housing Law will soon follow, when it will actually be seen in a year or two, what is the situation in this area or what the results are. In order to involve the general public, we have to, I don't know, we'd be just discussing. Let's be a little more constructive. Let's take a look at the results. That's what counts. Today, we are in a position to have virtually no public rentals on the market. And those who build commercial rental apartments are also speculating. As a result, we also have relatively largely empty apartments. Although it's not in marriage, I would actually tax those who have empty apartments and speculate. But it's not like in this law I'm not just going to scare those who have one, two or three empty apartments and speculate in one way or another. It's a luxury if you have an empty apartment today. This law brings ratings and obligations both to tenants, both to operators, to housing funds, to republics, to municipalities and so on. This area provides for a proportionate adjustment of the value of the point, which is converted to a value of 3,5 euros, which is a revalued value from 2007, and where an additional three-year transitional period is added to that value where the current price is fixed at the annual cost of living. It is also good that the maximum rent subsidy is increased from the current 80% to 85%. This is said to be the case if the actual rent cost is increased due to other circumstances or to the rent, the share of the subsidy is also increased. This is said to be followed by kindness to the tenant himself. What is essential, however, is to create such a market for housing to be made available. This increases the fund where the Republic and municipal housing funds will have a more favourable debt. In fact, there was virtually little going on in the Republic’s Housing Fund, and the municipalities also had some kind of investment spasm concerning housing. The incentives were not such that the congregation would also decide to build housing. And what's the point? In fact, it's all about money. The admissibility of the law is often assessed by assessing the financial consequences of the law on the state budget or on budgets where public funding is concerned, as is the case with the budgets of the municipalities. And to this point, the Ministry of Finance gave a green hook, and I'll call it. This is said to be clearly aware of its financial obligations. If we want to implement this housing law to the extent that we all want, we will also need higher financial resources. I believe that this will reflect these added funds already in the budget, both for this year and for the 2022 rebalancing. But we do know that it is not possible to go overnight and that we will be able to evaluate the first results somewhere in three or four years, because we know that there are procedures, building permits, land and so on. These are procedures that run and don't go through the night. I also believe that the Stanovanski Fund does not have this moment 10 building permits on the table and there are also relatively few municipalities in Slovenia that would have a building permit for a non-profit residential building. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance is aware of these financial consequences and has given this a green hook. I believe that the situation in the number of non-profit dwellings in Slovenia will improve and that the amendment of this law will soon be followed, and I believe that in a year two families will have the opportunity to reach their rental apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Good evening! This law is as good as it is proposed. I would also like to commend him for the fact that it stems to the greatest extent from the law that we have already established in the Modern Centre Party in the previous government and that he had to wait due to the events. But I think it's great to point out that it's a solution that opens the way to its own home, which is becoming an increasingly acute problem for all but the youngest generation. It's also good because it prevents abuse by the building manager. We've had cases, we've mentioned them many times today, when managers have really abused electricity payments, utilities, insurance, we've screwed up a reserve fund, and almost nothing has happened. This will no longer be possible under this law. It is also good because the law regulates the achievement of the necessary share of the consent of the high-level owners. Here we have had huge problems both in practice and in life, that is, those who are not in practice. It was a case of buildings being fitted to new elevators when parking towers are regulated when a building permit is obtained for another operation. It was enough that only one, usually the most inconvenient, the owner objected and the matter was not possible. This is now being resolved with a precise percentage, and some survival in this sense will no longer be possible. Of course, it is also about energy rehabilitation of buildings, preventing or removing architectural barriers, i.e. even a number of things that have been difficult to implement, and now will finally open the way for modernisation or modernisation of buildings that have a very long life with us. After some 30 years of operation of the facility, it is clear that it is time for renovation or updating according to the technological possibilities that today allow. But most of all, it seems to me that it has remained inconsequential - and perhaps if not for other readings, then for the Ministry's consideration - this construction of new apartments, which is of course extremely positive for investment, but the opportunity is not used in this law, when it comes to investments by the Housing Fund, to focus on raising quality, especially the quality of architecture or urban design. I think there's something I need to talk to you about. Our settlements and cities, in this transition sequence of events, have lost in some way in their beauty. First, because of the sudden expansion, then due to the uncontrolled introduction of capital into construction, which simply lost quality without any greater control mainly aesthetically or theoretically designed type. We have practically witnessed in the last 30 years, luckily not on a large number, but, however, one irresponsible upheaval of even less responsible investors, who, for every price, have made hotels especially for upgrades, ceilings, upgrades to create as many as possible square meters, are not looking at the quality that is then seen in one place on the facility, which costs the next 50, 100, even 200 years. Here I think that the housing fund, as one leading force for building housing as one direction, I still think that one regulation, the support of the legislator, by the Ministry of Environment and Space, is still needed, in particular, to standardise and prescribe, in some way, the monitoring of low-energy houses or energy self-sufficient houses, to the use of natural materials. Slovenia, as a country with many forests, could certainly have entire settlements, including multi-housing buildings made of wood. We can do this, but we can't use it. We still prefer some other material, and then it's a possibility to prescribe new construction, not just materials, but heating systems, cooling buildings, all of which is something left here silenced and should be included. Here in this package I would also like to mention the smart systems of these house electronic circuits, which are still used only in very exclusively designed and built houses, instead of using electronics that are valued every day in one multi-housing house almost as standard equipment. Most importantly, I think it is important that the housing fund should prescribe mandatory public competitions for the construction of multi-housing buildings, new neighbourhoods or new urban structures for housing. Unfortunately, there is another legislation that is moving away from this idea, and I'm afraid we're going to have a lot of controversy about it. That's why I want to say here, because decades ago Slovenian residential architecture was an example of the entire architectural scene of the former country and we've all been learning exactly in the cases that have arisen here, it seems foolish to me to lose these reputations, to lose this approach, that only on the basis of someone offering a lower price for design, but if only without architects, as I see it hinting, should this somehow be prevented. Through the Housing Fund, we must apply the principles of equality in obtaining work for designers and in order to achieve better quality, especially as a way to give opportunities to young people. When it comes to projects to enable new dwellings for young people, it makes no sense for us young architects to practically force them to go to Google or to work in Australia or New Zealand because they are practically out of work. Once upon a time, this encounter was very valuable, I am talking about Slovenia, and in some ways it has now slowly lost the number of good solutions it once had because of such an approach. However, I must also point out that the new modern investors, although to a lesser extent, begin procedures or approaches, overlook the aspect of quality architecture, consider only the number of square meters and the price of a square meter to speak only of the stone imported from China and ceramic tiles, that too many windows are used with frames of recycled plastic yogurt pots instead of the wood we have, and all the technologies available. So the building doesn't achieve all the aesthetics it could. And here is the housing fund, one that also traces the way into history and teaches all generations when they are born and grow up where they can live. You can live in a box, but you can live in a building that's amazing. Here we are in one of the discregans, who should start to improve slowly also through the housing fund. I support this law in the first reading. I would like to add another segment to talk about what I am talking about now, on improving and improving the quality of architectural and urban solutions through mandatory public competitions. Unlike cars, the building lasts 100, 200 years and cannot remain undetected in one city. And that's all that depends on whether this building and this building and this whole building and all that stuff and this whole street is going to be in pride or shame. It is at the Minister and the Ministry of Environment and Space to accept this responsibility for the development and appearance of our cities, including our villages and the natural environment for the practical next century. I hope you're aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Vice President. You know what the proverb says, which a lot of times in a joke mentions, but in fact, there's a lot of it in that proverb. That everyone should have done at least three things in life. One thing is for sure that he has offspring, of course, if he can, under the circumstances, the other thing is to plant a tree, and the third thing is to write a book. However, I fear that in this proverb we should replace a number of things and add that we create an apartment in our lives. In the last 30 years, this has become a systematic occupation not only of each individual but of the entire family. If you are a young family or a parent, you must first create the conditions for them to live somewhere, to live, to live, to live, to stay, and to help their children in the future and in the years to come, in order to get to their own home. And the whole family keeps working as a perpetuum mobile nonstop just to create conditions so that they can live somewhere. As long as this is not possible, they combine all possible stories, from rental apartments, from being squeezed in inappropriate conditions in apartments and so on and so on. The development of society came even so far and brought things that if you don't have an apartment, you haven't actually done anything in your life and you're worthless. Even this segment of society, views, culture has led to this point, that this has actually become a category of value, as you stand in society. Which, of course, is wrong, wrong and wrong. Some of you have mentioned today the Law of Jasbins, which systematically brought down the process of this good that we had from the previous country. Not crying for the previous country, but a lot of things worked in the previous country, but we systematically destroyed them from simple logic, because we even put thought in our head in the constitution that private property has an advantage over public good. And there's a lot of points to that. This, of course, stems from fear, because many with nationalisation in the previous system have been bewildered and this anger, when we came to our country, has been so strong that it has left in various areas the bad consequences that we are still looking at today. Housing policy is certainly one of these wraths, where we have systematically destroyed everything in the opposite direction for 30 years, in a systematic manner, what we should actually do. We did this with a public housing fund, which for many years systematically raised the need to buy an apartment, not give it away, and it needs to be bought. Even with public money, we bought or built apartments for sale. In order for the measure to be full, we adopted the Law of the Kicker in 2003, which added to the need to think and do so. Although the aim was in 2003 to relax and improve the system of how to get to housing. And this is how it was spoken in 2003 when legislation was adopted, as I am now hearing when it is discussed how this law will bring some novelty and some improvement. In fact, in five, six years, we will be talking exactly the same thing, young people will not be able to get to their homes unless we make a mental leap in their heads, that things really need to be put on a completely new footing. I apologize to all the authors of this law, and I know you didn't write down everything that's been written here, and believe me, I've said the exact same thing to the previous one. Don't think I'm attacking you now because it's another government. Not at all. It's a concept of how to get to these apartments. But if we want to explain this, and if we want to make this very clear, we need to shed light on the mistakes we've been making so that we can get to a new beginning. When Jazbinšek brought in a law that allowed for the sale of apartments, it is necessary to ask where the money went from the 210 thousand apartments that were sold on the market. And that's not true, the one you're saying today that the Jasbinski law allowed people to come to the apartment. No, only ownership has changed, they've already been to apartments. And we can't forget that. At the time, we only sold out what was already used. Nobody got any new apartments. However, there were a number of trades that had been signed at the notary of a certain contract, that when this one died, it would come into other ownership. Because people really didn't have the money to buy this apartment, and those who had the money were actually buying apartments. I personally know people who since then own 25 apartments and do nothing else in their lives than just collect rents. If this is a good marriage, do I apologize?Oh, my God! It wasn't a good marriage. But we created property. That's me. We set up the owner. Because a lot of people couldn't afford money at the time. The fact that this property was being sold unfairly, that's another story. At the time, it was an apartment, if we're talking about brands, worth between 5,000 and 20,000 marks, depending on size. What is the saddest story, however, is that the value of the apartment you bought was exactly the same, whether it was in Portorož or in Ljubljana or in Ljutomer. If we were to convert this into marks of today's value, it would be about €15 billion there today. Where did that money go? I don't know where. You tell me where he went. This is a rhetorical question that you will not misunderstand, for all those who at the time designed this policy. But he certainly didn't go to new apartments, which was meant to be. I'm talking about the value that should have been then. In reality, however, the apartments were sold at a value of two billion, which had been collected in practically 10, 15, 20 years. Still a lot of money that definitely didn't go back to the apartments. And that's the problem with this society. What did we get in 2003? We got some new relationships and a housing scheme, so I don't know what else. I was saving up this apartment scheme myself, and now I'm telling you, I didn't have anything to do with this apartment scheme, because then I had to take credit and with credit really buy an apartment. That housing scheme was a win-win and eye-snake to everyone, how we're going to solve some problems. Most of it was the money that was saved in the housing scheme, and then eventually she picked it up and spent it on something else because she saw that she couldn't help herself with that money. Today, if someone wants to buy an apartment, which would be the norm for a young family to live in, I am not talking about 30 square meters, but if there is a four-member family, it must have at least 70 square meters, we are talking about an apartment in Ljubljana that is not under 200,000 euros. Unless it's 30 years old and it's just before the fall, everything needs to be restored and so on. If we go out of Ljubljana a little bit, maybe 5% to 8% will go down, but not much. Lavrica Dolsko and so on, these are the same prices as in Ljubljana. Only after we get there do prices start to fall. But for their situation, these are still high prices. The same applies to Maribor and so on. And I'm not even going to talk about Portorož and Goreńska because they think they live in Manhattan and that brick sells like I don't know what's gotten into this apartment. And with this housing policy, with this law, I apologize to everyone, we will not solve these problems. We won't. But we're going to solve each other's problems, but more visibly. And that's the key problem. We should adopt a new social agreement in Slovenia, just as it was accepted when we built motorways. What do we have to do? We really need to lower the price of housing if we are to be honest about how people can get to their homes if we think they need to buy them. This, however, can only be done in one way – to place so many apartments on the market that the supply is greater than the demand. That's the only way. Excuse me, everything else is one empty straw beating, how we're going to solve problems with housing policy for young people. How many apartments in Slovenia do we need today if we want to do this? I'm afraid there's a minimum of between 5,000 and 10,000 flats. How to ensure that the apartments will not only be built in Ljubljana, but spread throughout Slovenia? For a simple reason, this means that only a country can do so when it enters and prevents all the construction and investors who today want to be very slow in building housing because this is the only way to keep the price and quasi are offered some prestigious apartments that are practically unattainable. Who buys them? Those who are very wealthy, or those who expect to do business. Sorry, the average Slovenian family does not buy new construction, today in Ljubljana, I looked online, building about 10 new buildings. Of this, there are up to 5, 6, 7, 000 euros per square meter in the center. Are we out of our minds in this country? If you go to Paris to buy an apartment, it's not 5,000 square meters. Except where they buy something purely different – haupt haupt haupt above standard. What they're selling in Ljubljana is not a super standard they're selling there for significantly more money. But they're doing it. Do you know why they're doing it? Because some still have money. We need to reach a strong public housing fund, which, like in Vienna, will allow anyone to need an apartment, of course accessible to his pocket, one less, one little more, one very large, to be accessible and able to come. Why does Vienna want this? Because he wants to have new taxpayers. He wants to have people with new knowledge. He wants to have people he hires for jobs no one else wants to do. But you have to offer him a place to live. If you think he's going to a hotel or some hole - no, he won't go. And then he'll only work for that apartment and for that bread. I'm sorry, but then without any reason to even come to Vienna, then it'll be easier to live here because it's all black work anyway. Rent apartments, we're talking about them, and now we've got Airbnb's downfall between the crown and something like that, and someone's wondering why they're not selling apartments. No, they're still broadcasting them, only under other conditions, and other clients and so on. They're waiting for an improvement, because it still suits them, so that one day we can broadcast again under Airbnb. But what's the problem? The problem is that we are one of the few countries that does not do what some countries have done. They limited the number of Airbnb licences and thus prevented everything from going to Airbnb alone. And they made it very clear where and when this Airbnb could happen. With regard to the law itself, I will say very directly that it is not so convenient for those who have apartments in multi-housing houses to live far away from it. Before me, my colleague Rajić spoke, and a few of you mentioned that it was nice, because now the percentage is falling and now there is really going to be something to do, which was not possible before. You know what the biggest problem is? Restoration of objects, rehabilitation of objects due to insulation and so on. And the next thing we did in socialism was I don't know what kind of parole apartment to the fourth floor, if anything, without elevators. Why? Because it valued the cost. There is no problem in one tower, where there are a lot of top-level owners, and with this percentage, which is now determined by the proposal, it will be possible to work the elevator. But there's a lift in the tower, that's not a problem, so it doesn't even count. In a four-story block, I'll give you an example of Stephen settlement, where there are only six, seven owners, sorry, only two on the ground floor are against, and these percentages are no longer appropriate and there will never lift. Remember the proposal of late former Member Kontić, mayor of Velenje, the last state councillor to come with a proposal for a housing law two years or even one and a half years ago in the previous government to reduce to 51%. What happened back then? There was a debate here on exactly the same problem. I warned the Secretary of State at the time that Contièa's proposal should be adopted. He said, "no, no, we will now write this in the law," as it is now written in this law, "and then we will try to change this number later by consensus." Who believes that? Sorry, 51% of owners have to make decisions, this is a simple majority, as in the National Assembly we adopt legislation with 51%, that is 46 votes. And if that's true here, I don't know why it wouldn't apply to owners. If it is necessary to repair the roof, you cannot say two things: “I don’t care about the roof.” There are no two words in the block: “I don’t care about the lift, because I will never use it.” But that's what we do. What the law says today is just a small investment that you don't need a building permit for. What I'm saying is, at the elevator, you have to have a building permit. And you know what the elevator problem is? That we have an older population each year, and we have older people in these large settlements who are practically unable to walk on these stairs on the fourth floor. Then they need home care and they increase the cost of this, they go home first because they find that they can't live at home because they don't have a condition for it. They'll never get to the elevator anyway. What makes one simple problem, as the elevator is called. And the elevator's not a big investment. But he's not gonna put a thousand euros in it to kill himself because he's never gonna use it. And these are the problems that directly benefit the top-level owners. The fund that will take over the apartments, the one that will, of course, want and then manage these apartments, will broadcast them on the market. I can honestly tell you that I don't believe this. You know why I don't believe it? Because most owners will not hope to give the apartment to someone in management and then, of course, will have no influence and will all be afraid forever of what will happen to this apartment. And it'll be a very small fund out of it. I prefer to see if we could make one social deal, like we did for highways, and agree and suddenly make so many and so many thousands of apartments. Rent a loan, a billion, two, and put on the market a large number of public apartments for non-profit rent. That'll solve the problem sooner. Because we have to get to this fund and beat people out of it, that they have to work their whole lives just for housing and that this must be the main priority of children, parents and so on. We also have to make a lot of small apartments for individuals, for people who live alone, students, young people. We in Slovenia must enable campuses to begin. We don't have this mentality because we've written off the housing problem and because no one's serious about it. Those who want to do so do not have the power to negotiate in the budget or any new deal. And they will never be able to do that – officials, directors and so on. Only politics can do that. This can be done by policy if it unites and overcomes its ideological issues on these concepts. That's why, Vice President, because it's almost eight o'clock, because we're about to finish, I'd like to say the following. 78. Article 78 of the Constitution makes it very clear that I should read it: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing.” I'm sorry, we haven't taken care of this article of the Constitution in 30 years. Because if we did, housing issues in a number of cases would be dealt with substantially earlier. And believe me, there would be significantly fewer problems. Unfortunately, I'm afraid this law will solve partial problems, but it will solve the problem again for the managers and for the builders. Rather than those who own the marriage. Once again, there's no criticism of the government. This marriage was invented by the former government, as well as by the former government, and would have been similarly thought of. But that's because we don't have the courage to move forward. This is to make a perfect conversion in our heads as far as housing policy is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In accordance with the pre-arranged timetable, we must suspend the meeting at eight. So I interrupt the 17th item of the agenda, which we will continue on Friday, March 5th, at 10 a.m. I also hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 8:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 19.59 and resumed at 8:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u286	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly! I inform you that we will decide in accordance with the order in which the agenda items have been dealt with. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. Comrade Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u287	This law discusses the amount of unemployment compensation. In Levika, with the amendment, we propose to introduce a minimum unemployment compensation at least at the minimum cost of living and to raise the maximum threshold for this compensation to the minimum wage level. The figures we are talking about as the lower limit are EUR 613. EUR 613 for any employee who loses his job, and not for his own fault. He loses it because the image in capital accumulation has changed because the economic crisis has hit us, after all, the covida-19 epidemic is haunting us. It is only fair for all those who have ended up on the road to be taken care of in a solidarity manner and to be provided with the amount of coverage of their unemployment at least at such a level that they can survive. Currently, with the compensations such as EUR 530 gross is this lower, that is 400 and a few euros net, it is impossible to survive. We are a social state, and we are supposed to be a solidarity society. While someone's busy, he takes away taxes from his salary, he takes away contributions. One of the benefits paid by the staff member is also the unemployment benefit. But when he loses his job, he's rewarded with such a miserable amount that he can't live with. This is absolutely wrong. Let's talk about Slovenian workers working abroad, about migrant workers from our former brotherly republics working in Slovenia, or if we are talking about the remaining 750 thousand workers living in Slovenia, who also work in Slovenia, and in most cases are entitled to a minimum wage, even because their salaries are so low. We want to help all of these 800,000 people in Levica when they're on the road, when they can't survive from their own hands and from their own brains, and not from their own fault, but because capitalism beats them to make up for all these people at least at the minimum cost of living, that's €613. Here we are talking today at this point, in this law, about whether it will help people or rather cut back on unemployment benefits, while the State's resources have focused on supporting capital, on bank guarantees and on purchasing such and other materials in criminal associations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The text of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[It's 86 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, the second reading of the draft Law on the National Demographic Fund in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 2 March 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 1, under number one. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 70. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 70 becomes irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI by Article 1 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1 under Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 38 under number two. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 38 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 43. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 5. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 16. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 21. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 31. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 32. We're voting. 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 38(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 38(2). We're voting. The 88 Members and Members present voted in favour of 49 votes against 38. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 45. We're voting. 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 48. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 48a and Article 48b under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There were 88 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 48 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 48a and Article 48b has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 48.b under Article 2. We're voting. 87 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 39. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 54. Procedurally, Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u289	The President, I apologize, it has nothing to do with this point, but when I look around this room and I see that the Member has to stand to be able to vote, but it doesn't matter who is in this Chamber, the gentleman from the Left is standing there, it seems impossible for me. Are we really not able to organize ourselves in this Chamber so that at least the Members can sit in the vote? Yeah, no chair. That's why I'm saying let's get organized. There are representatives of the government sitting and waiting. Wait a minute, calm down, because someone else could stand, but it is right that the Member is sitting in this Chamber and voting normally. Nothing else. So whoever it was, whether it's SDS or it's ours or it's anybody. I think another chair can be obtained because I can no longer see the Member standing. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u290	Okay, thank you very much, colleague Matjaz Han. Dear colleagues, we all have a chance to sit down. It is true that this is not a normal way of working that we are subject to measures. According to some information, the day is coming when we will have the opportunity to receive the vaccine, so I hope that we will allow some normal operation in this room at the time, however, in accordance with the accepted doctrine. Until then, I suggest we hold on a little longer. It's not that bad. I suggest we move on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we decide on the amendment of Article 54 of the SD, LMŠ and SAB. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 70 has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 71. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 73. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 74. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 86a under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to this Article shall become irrelevant. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We are co-proposals of this amendment in Levika and, of course, we will also support it. But it's the next thing. Article 86a has been added to this law on the committee and provides that the demographic fund has jurisdiction to intervene in an institution where it has nothing to seek. For example, the competence to intervene in the Slovenian Press Agency is laid down in this Article. Why it's harmful or where it measures, we know. For months now, the government has been trying to break the current STA leadership or determine its editorial policy. But since this leadership is not left behind and insists on ethical and journalistic standards, it must now be resolved by other means. With this article, the demographic fund will be given the opportunity to set up its own supervisory board in the Slovenian Press Agency by replacing the responsible editor and director and then transforming this press agency into something that we were able to monitor with horror yesterday, what was happening at the so-called National Press Agency. If I remember you, the thing went so far that even Twitter, which I think has the most liberal policy concerning the limit of permissibility of an enemy speech, blocked their account yesterday after those escapades that were published by this right-wing press agency.And I don't want to live in a country where the Slovenian Press Agency will literally become a fan of false news, as Prime Minister Janez Janša once said. So we will absolutely vote in favour of this amendment and I think that everyone who wants to continue to live in some fairly regulated democratic society should support it because it poses a serious threat. But that's all I'm gonna say for the end. The problem we have in this country is that there is no dispute between left and right. The dispute is between the Democrats and the Freeways. Among those who want to live in a democratic society and among those who want to establish some monopoly of power. And they've been showing it for a long time. They once sold Mercator in exchange for influencing Del's editorial policy. Today, through the demographic fund, we would like to come to the editorial office of the Slovenian Press Agency. Ambition remains the same, only funds change.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Colleague Divojak Mirnik, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. Since the Agency has not yet been able to destroy financially, it has to be disciplined in a different way. You're innovative, you have to admit that. We can congratulate you on that. But this latest story of yours leads to what we're talking about in the LMŠ all the time. Leads to "my way or no way". And at this point we are in the “no way” phase. This is not right, of course, because in LMŠ we want the media to remain independent, so that journalists can point out things that are not ok, that they will not be afraid to write, but at least in LMŠ we do not want those right ones that write on the line that only the Supreme Chief likes. In history we know a very beautiful or a little less beautiful expression for this, I will not mention it because I wish it did not reach it in Slovenia. That is why we will also support this amendment in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Natasha Sukich, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. For months we have been monitoring attempts to destabilise the Slovenian Press Agency, which represents the backbone of our media. An agency that is committed and must act in accordance with the highest ethical journalistic standards, not by anyone or through any filter of anyone. But trials are shameless. We've known how financially this agency has been drained for months. She was literally in agony. Her employees, who work seriously and well and their families, are at social risk right now. All these experiments have not yet produced fruit. This attempt to place the Slovenian Press Agency within the demographic fund, where there is nothing to look for, is actually this move, we can call it a guillotine on the back of this agency and on the independence of this backbone of our media. And like Luke said, we want to live in a democratically open society. Independent reporting, independent media work is one of the conditions for such a thing. That is why I call on everyone who cares about whether we live in democracy or elsewhere in some autocratic system to support this amendment. I'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 86a under Article 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 39. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SAB groups to Article 86.b under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to this Article shall become irrelevant. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u297	Thank you. 86.b. is another article that points to the true nature of this demographic fund. 86.b. Article repeals certain laws, and its aim is that in the Blue Insurance Company, which is essentially a pension fund of public sector employees with 1.4 billion euros at the end of the year and which has the resources of 320 thousand savers, the savers who, after the current arrangement, have the opportunity to appoint half the supervisory board will no longer be able to do so, since this article is being deleted. The savers, those who have contributed 1.4 billion euros, will no longer have the opportunity to control this money, will no longer have the opportunity to appoint half the supervisory board, but will do so through the demographic fund. Here is another story where we see clear ambitions after someone wants to put their fingers in marmalade worth 1.4 billion euros. The demographic fund, however, is an appropriate way to do so. Of course, I will vote in favour of this article being deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 86.b under Article 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 38. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to the new 86.c and 86.c. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and since the representative of the proposer of the draft law had already proposed, in the introductory explanation, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at that meeting, should hold a third consideration of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Procedural proposal from the explanatory memorandum. I'm just gonna hang up. It's a procedural proposal. The decision goes to the vote and there is no explanation of vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If more than a third of the Members present oppose it, the decision will not be adopted. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 39. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at one of the following meetings. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 2, 4 and 5. If this amendment is not adopted, those amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 5. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 6. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 6b. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 88 votes against. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI to Article 1. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 88 votes against. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 2. The amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 4a. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. Comrade Miha Kordish, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u299	The amendment that we tabled in Levica to this amendment to the pension law is that we think he deserves to be at the heart of the whole debate. Unfortunately, that didn't happen at the session, so I'm going to explain the voice I'm going to give. I will vote in favour of our amendment. What is this amendment of ours doing? First of all, it raises the pension bottom. The lowest pension is EUR 442. Here we are not talking about a full-time pension, but the absolute lowest pension anyone in this country can receive. 442 Euros are charged the minimum cost of living for a short period of time and it seemed appropriate for us to anchor the lowest amount of pension we could recover. The second measure proposed, the lowest pension, this time for the full 40 years, is put at the level of long-term cost of living, namely EUR 613. No one in this country who spent 40 years building this society, which also built the country itself, deserves to live in poverty. EUR 613 is the most bare minimum that such a person should receive in order to enjoy at least a measure of safe age. And third, what we propose is that such changes have a positive impact and that other transfers that are linked to the pension register are recalculated. In particular, what hurts us particularly and exposes us is compensation in the event of disability and widow's pensions fall in here and so on. All these three changes, which we have made in our short amendment, should also apply to people who are now in retirement and who are already enjoying pension status and not just for future pensioners. This is a few small marriage articles, which would greatly contribute to the eradication of poverty among pensioners, who is the farthest exposed group to the risk of poverty in that country, especially the elderly female in rural areas and so on. It is likely that this amendment will not be voted on, it will not be voted on with some silent argument that there is no money for pensioners. Funds for bank guarantees are found, funds are found to recapitalise firms in difficulty, and when poverty is resolved, these funds are suddenly lacking. For this measure, we would need 160 million euros. In Levica we think we should find these 160 million euros to help people, be careful!, not live in luxury, but survive. As I say, I will vote in favour of raising the lowest pensions in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Not On his own behalf, he has an explanation, Comrade Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. Poverty in Slovenia or anywhere is a deep systemic problem. It's not an individual's fault, it's a social responsibility. Especially in the rich society of our format, in a rich society that can afford 780 million dollars to buy weapons or for, as we have heard, some rich recapitalisation and so on. In the rich society that we are in, the elimination of poverty is not really a problem, it is a matter of political decision, it is a matter of political will, it is a matter of political priority. The fact is that poverty beats the most just pensioners over 65 years of age because the pension system is insolvent and unfair. The proposal before us in this amendment is not systemic, it will not change the pension system to be fair, but it will be a patch and it will at least fix the most open wound. So no more shameful pensions as we have heard in the debate, 270 euros, but any pension, even if it is not for the full 40 years, to the level of the short-term minimum cost of living, i.e. 442 euros. The absolute lowest pension in the country, this is a proposal, and a pension for the full 40 years of EUR 613 such as the charging of the long-term minimum cost of living. This is fair, this is decent, it is solidarity with people who have contributed in solidarity throughout their lives their work, skills, time for all of us as a community to enjoy public education, public health, infrastructure and so on. I will support this amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u303	246 euros. That's what the latest data we've got is the lowest pension in this country. 246 euros. This is a disgraceful number that we are trying to correct in Levica with our amendment. Poverty is not the fault of an individual, poverty is the shame of a society that permits it and that makes profits in saving poor pensioners. EUR 442 as the absolute bottom, as low as the lowest pensions in this country can be, may not sound much. The same does not sound like a large 613 for an additional full-time job. And that's true. These are modest amounts. But compared to what poor pensioners are receiving today, we are still talking about a difference that can help many people to cover an additional health insurance bill of €35, which can help many people to get extra bread and extra milk cartons. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. I hope that there will be enough votes for the amendment to be adopted. Let's put an end to poverty and help the poorest pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 43. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 4a.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u305	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide to amend SDS, SMC and NSI's parliamentary groups for a new Article 4.b. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 88 votes against 1. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Golden Bee Prize Bill in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of land for the implementation of educational, research and development activities in the field of agriculture and forestry under the regular procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 8. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 8. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Identity Cards in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Registration of Residences in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC and NNsi sent groups to Article 5 under Article 1 and the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 5 under Article 2. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. Colleague Natasa Sukić, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u306	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, in Levi, we will support this amendment, which means removing the vortex, which is unheard of, which is constitutionally controversial, which introduces some nationalism and even disguises racism in that the registration of a permanent residence should also be investigated by religion, in the mother tongue of the people who apply for permanent residence. Not to mention that this law also seeks to re-traditionalize or, as I call it, continue in the Middle Ages, for bizarre information is also required, who runs the household. These are really absurd things in the 21st century, when we well know that some household manager does not exist, that under our legislation partners are equal. We do not know this surviving concept of the head of the household, which reminds us of some Roman law or Pater familyias, this is simply not what we know today, and such a proposal really goes in the direction of re-traditionalizing our society and re-creation of some surviving hierarchical relations within the family. So such absurdities, such anomalies, of course, have nothing to do with the application of permanent residence and these anomaly amendments, which are proposed, are abolished. We will certainly support this amendment in the left hand side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 58 votes against 30. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC and NNsi to Article 10 under Article 1 and the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 10 under Article 2. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote together. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 30. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the shorter procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 10 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates or do they intend to table amendments to these articles? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 11. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19 in the context of the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and Levica's parliamentary groups to Article 2(1). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision number 2 and to the new Article 2.a under number 1. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 2(2). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision under headings 1 and 2a of Article 2a. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of SD, LMŠ and Levica by Article 2 to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision under Article 2 and new Article 2a under Article 1 has become irrelevant. As the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB by Article 2 to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of Chapter Final provision under Article 1 and new Article 2a under Article 2 has become irrelevant. We have ended our decision-making on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Siter, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u308	Thank you very much. The staff in critical infrastructure, health and care, is the one who saves lives. At the time of the epidemic, the government invested €1.7 billion in capital, without ensuring that this sum will be translated into jobs, and only €370 million directly for workers. Even though it's the workers who make it. I'm sure the best thing about a stroke at this time is the care workers and health workers. In normal circumstances, as reported by the Community of Social Institutions, they are underpaid twice, they are now exhausted and burned after 16 hours a day. Work in a nursing home and in health institutions is not coughing. As a volunteer myself, I checked the nursing home in Hrastnik, the temperature. They don't mind running away when they run either to other professions or to other countries doing the same job. When the crisis is over, health care and care will be even more humane on their knees, even more impoverished areas. Therefore, at the time of the epidemic, at the time of the peak of the epidemic, it is crucial that these people, for the first time, are paid with dignity, for the second time to work under normal conditions and, for the third time, to keep their jobs even for the time when the epidemic is over. We all understand that these are the people who save lives and the public health and care system in the future. Therefore, in the opposition, instead of flying and thanking the cameras, we have come up with a proposal that the work of these workers and workers in these key jobs should be fair and dignified. The supplement for their work raises from 30 percent to 65 percent of their other salary. And very importantly, several key jobs that the government has forgotten so far have been added to the jobs that are eligible for this supplement. These are lifeguards, caregivers, caregivers, labs, caregivers, and so on. This proposal has been co-designed and co-signed by Members and Members of the Left, and we will also support it in the vote. Let us not forget that it is the people working in these key jobs who are taking us as a society through this epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u310	Thank you, President, for your word. This government and coalition MPs like to say that this government works for people and does not have money problems, as colleague Trček says. Given that you have rejected the amendments that would actually give 100,000 euros to students, you obviously have major money problems when you give to those who help. The rhetoric of the rulers is that we are at war, at war with the virus. And who are the soldiers at this time? All health workers and all those who fight and work with covid patients. And tell them only thanks, and set them before the hospitals, to watch the flying planes, help them a little. Therefore, as the coalition likes to say, let's go from words to action, vote for and give to those who really help the patient's co-vid, what they deserve. Of course, we'll confirm it in the List of Marjan Sarcas.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Comrade Soniboj Knezak, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u312	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is one of those topics that should be linked not to share the left, right, opposition, position. A decent reward, which is not excessive, which we offer to thank health workers for all the efforts that have been made in the first wars in recent months, after 12 hours of working in the suits. I had this experience myself, that I also spent some time in a hospital in this covid crisis and had conversations with all the subjects. It's a superhuman effort. In recent weeks, you have also made a great deal of praise and thanks in this national assembly. Thank you to the health workers for all the effort you're making. Today, if you confirm this bill, worth €26 million, not to mention that you have earmarked €6.9 billion for actions in the field of co-vide, and today we are talking about the rewards of those who are in the front lines and will also be in the coming months. Covid, even when we're inoculated, he'll stay. Healthcare professionals, although the epidemic will no longer be declared, will still treat covid patients. This amendment allows that even after the epidemic is no longer declared, they receive an appropriate supplement to work in these difficult conditions. It's time to move from words to actions. This is a topic that should not separate this national assembly. But I must say, I'm not exactly an optimist, given that you have slightly rejected all the proposed amendments. Like all the other opposition colleagues, the Social Democrats will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Comrade Franz Duck, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. I have to take this. First, as Sona said, it's some basic minimum respect for these people. Second, we're not at war, we're not going to defeat the virus, we're going to have to learn to live with the virus. It's from words to action. And like Sonia said, it's not about left, right, up, down. In fact, this is our Matjaž, and I have “found out”, but this is a footnote below the line. Sometimes you also need to stick around a little - it also flies to someone who will support it - but not always throw yourself away. Of course I'll support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u315	Thank you very much. A colleague of Violet Tomic's, on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Like the predecessors said, it's not a left-right darkness. When it hits the disease, it hits everyone. So left-handed, so right-handed, so middle-aged. And then we know that the medical staff are closest to us at that moment and that they are never weak in will and always available. But they work in impossible situations, every day worse. We've been monitoring their fight with this enemy, as you like to call it. And when this government says that it helps everyone, we notice that it does not help those who really should help them. But here's the time for us to unite. Today we had a few votes with a left, right and middle policy. I think it's one of those topics that we should put together, because money is, we've seen where it's going, but priority should go to those who help us and on which we depend for life when we really need help. So I will support this amendment. And also somehow I can't understand – thank the medical staff, thank the doctors, thank the nurses Thank you under the wave table. [[…]] You can't put that in a pot. Let's give them something to put in the pot so they can survive better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u317	I see there's still an interest in explanation. I'm opening the list. Applications are under way. The first has the word Soniboy the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u318	Thank you, President. The law currently under consideration was just to remind coalition Members, through the procedure in the State Council, in line with all health organisations, because we are eliminating certain anomalies or also introducing awards for those groups that we have missed. On this occasion, I would also like to thank Mr Desus, my colleague Yuri Lepo, who also gave his vote of support to the committee that this law has today taken place in this National Assembly. Once again, my fellow Members and colleagues, I urge you to reconsider and give your vote of support to this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u320	Hello, everyone. We hear from the government several times that the government is working. We can agree with that, but this somehow flies to the opposition that the opposition is not working. That's right. The government works. You are also making mistakes and therefore there is the opposition that in matters where you make a mistake where certain segments are allowed to join the opposition. The opposition has jumped in here and is trying to help those who have been released in one year and have not been addressed by any measure. As has already been said, this law is worth €26 million. This is a statistical error of the total amount you have committed to the epidemic and let us take part in such matters. This is a well-intentioned proposal from the opposition to help those to whom you have forgotten on the right hand side of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u321	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u322	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Of course I'll support this marriage. I would also like to be supported by the opposition and by a moderate opposition by another opposition and by such a coalition and a different coalition. And I'm going to tell you a simple reason why I believe this has to be supported. In fact, the hardest fight was in hospitals, in nursing homes, and so forth. The people who were there were working under impossible difficult conditions. Lucky for me, I have to knock on that, and I haven't had the experience to be in the hospital for a while, like Sony's, and probably someone else. But I looked at the pictures, talked to those people who were sick or on the other hand with the people who were helping them, and except for the very great gratitude and commendation, there were no other words. The compliments that do not follow her action are double gratifying. That's one of those Stairly words, and don't mind me saying, it's just been turned around. Praise must follow action. I feel that I must support at least two measures among the many measures that are necessary. And that is that this praise is also expressed in money, it has to be expressed in money, and secondly, this praise has to be expressed, although we will talk about it more tomorrow, in money that we will also use to build new hospitals and rebuild those who need reconstruction. We keep talking about such and different security, but the security we are talking about right now is really the most important thing. And they're not tanks, they're not machine guns! This is our health staff, please behave yourself to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-03-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u323	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 38. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to the broken 1st item of the agenda. These are questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 2 March 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the Magi. Alenka Bratušek, regarding the effects and consequences of the anti-crisis measures taken. We're voting. There were 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Mr Sarc on the government's future actions related to public finances. We're voting. There were 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against, 47 votes against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of correspondence by Primož Siter on the groundless insistence on professionally unconfirmed measures to limit the movement of individuals and individuals and on the procedurally unjustified sanctioning of citizens and citizens by the Police and the Ministry of the Interior. We're voting. There were 87 Members and Members present, 39 votes against, 47 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič on the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation. We're voting. There were 86 Members and Members present, 39 votes against, 46 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik regarding the role of the Slovenian Press Agency in the Slovenian media area in the future and on the strategic documents for the development of the media in Slovenia. We're voting. There were 84 Members and Members present, 39 votes against, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Mark Bandelli's question on the measure of night movement limitation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 39 votes against, 43 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the abolition of the Internal Audit Service at UKC Ljubljana and ensuring the transparent functioning of public health institutions in the future. We're voting. There were 87 Members and Members present, 40 votes against, 47 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti and Minister of Justice of Mag. Lilliana Kozlović to the parliamentary question Nataša Sukič regarding the re-stabilization of the Slovenian Press Agency by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for communication. We're voting. There were 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Edvard Paulič on the operation of guest activities and the various interpretations of government decisions related thereto. We're voting. There were 87 Members and Members present, 40 votes against, 46 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Ms Violete Tomić, on the termination of the discussion of the daily Anne Frank in certain primary schools. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to supplementary health insurance. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 48. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of the mission of Bosniak Koražija regarding the urgent economic measures for the wider area of Haloz. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of the delegation of Jani Ivanuše concerning the functioning of the police in Ormož Municipality. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 60. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak on the question of the mission of Željko Cigler concerning the overall assessment of environmental impacts for the area of the Municipal Detailed Spatial Plan GAS-5-Southern part in Celje. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Željk Cigler concerning the General Hospital Celje. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 48. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the evaluation of the work of the medical staff. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 48. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to Violeta Tomić's question regarding the purchase of a cellular therapy device under the CART-T method. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not adopted.I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed Friday at 10 a.m.
