ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Tadeja Šuštar from 17 to 20 p.m., Michael Prevc to 14 p.m., Eva Irgl, Franci Kepa, Anja Bah Žibert and Franc Rosec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on production and trafficking in drug-produced drugs after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Andrey Reich. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Dr. Franc Trček, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Good morning! Nice hello to you all! At its 14th regular meeting, on 6 May 2021, the Health Committee considered the proposal of the Act as a work force. No amendments were tabled within the time limit. An additional explanation, on behalf of the applicant, was submitted by a colleague of mags. Andrej Reich, who said that the proposal wanted to regulate the use and also the cultivation and conversion of hemp for medical purposes. The Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health. Franz Vindišar and, as several governments have already heard, we have heard that a systemic solution is being sought and that the law from the point of view of the executive branch of power is not appropriate, according to the Ministry of State, is flawed and that they are working on something that will undoubtedly be better. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, from the point of view of the powers and responsibilities they have, pointed out certain uncertainties, imperfections and shortcomings of the law. Representative of the Council of State, competent commission, mag. Peter Požun stressed that the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons does not support the proposal of the law and highlighted some key issues. The opinion on the bill was also given by representatives of the National Institute for Public Health and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. In the debate, we have heard something that we have heard several times that this has been trying to regulate for a decade; that it wants to regulate and eliminate the black market; that there have been working groups that have somehow fallen asleep. We have come to the point that we still do not have, in the opinion of the not so small part of the participating, an appropriate Slovenian translation of the 1961 Single Convention on Drugs and the 1972 Protocol. On the part of the more coalition Members, it has been heard that this needs to be systematically regulated. Finally, 10 votes in favour and 5 against adopted that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the production and transport of illicit drugs was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the Magi bill. Andrew Reich to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! Cancer, a disease of modern times, affects more than 12,000 Slovenes and Slovenians each year, regretting about half the battle with this disease. Cancer is a disease of long-lived society. Nearly 60% of the patients are over 60 years of age, and that is why we have about 2% more patients each year in Slovenia. There is virtually no one among us who does not know someone who has suffered cancer successfully; but unfortunately he also knows someone for whom the disease has been fatal. Timely detection of the presence of the disease remains crucial in the fight and recovery. With this, the disease never rests. Severe side effects: loss of appetite, vomiting, nausea, muscle spasms, personal distress are caused by prescribed strong medicines and therapies in many patients. Patients facing comparable symptoms also include Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’ s disease and a number of epileptics. These are estimated at more than 10 000, so we have tabled in the legislative process a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs. With it, we want to refer to an unsustainable state. Many of the most difficult patients are forced to serve the black market, thus endangering their health, while in their most difficult lifetime degrade themselves to the level of the offender and the criminal. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs, as proposed by us in the SAB Group, introduces and lays down conditions for the cultivation and processing of hemp for medical purposes, lays down more specifically the powers to issue authorisations for the production and marketing of hemp for medical purposes, and regulates fully the supervision of the activities concerned. For medical purposes, it is already possible to use synthetic products from natural hemp extracts for medical purposes, but Slovenia is mainly dependent on imports from abroad. Imported products available are only synthetic and their concentrations are significantly lower in order to achieve the desired values. They're hard to access and expensive. In Slovenia, we need to provide conditions for cultivation and thus allow patients access to a quality and affordable medicinal product from natural hemp. Since, as we say, we are only now bound by imports of extremely limited quantities, since only the use of medical hemp, not cultivation and processing, would be possible, the amendment would regulate the legislative procedures of medical hemp and thereby significantly improve the accessibility of the raw material to patients and, of course, improve the safety of its consumption. With the bill we refer only to a narrow area in which there is a very broad social consensus that it must be addressed and resolved. In the SAB party, we are aware that there is a desire for wider regulation of the area, which raises added issues and is more time-consuming and substantively difficult. In the past, the scope of cannabis has been repeatedly addressed, but unfortunately not successful. Unfortunately, from the discussions in the procedure so far, the SAB party is unable to remove the feeling that some parties are concerned instead of the patient's benefits, especially the issue of prestige. We stress that although we have sent the law for review, we have not received any comments on the article of the law despite promises. In doing so, we draw attention to the position of the Government, which does not support the law, as it prepares its better, systematic. The deadline for fulfilling these promises has passed for more than one month. We are aware and committed to regulating cannabis for medical purposes, with a view to all individuals and relatives who are currently forced to serve the black market and thus expose themselves not only to law enforcement authorities but also to some kind of production and an uncontrolled dose. We therefore appeal to all Members and Members in the SAB party as a proposal not to support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Government will be presented by Mrs Alenka Forte, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, let me point out that the proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members does not address the issue of cannabis cultivation for medical purposes in a comprehensive and clear manner. The proposed law would violate the provisions of the Single Convention on Drugs, which, under clearly defined conditions, allows signatory countries to grow cannabis for scientific, scientific and medical purposes. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal of the law because it is inconsistent with concrete solutions. Let me introduce you to her. The proposal does not define the basic conditions for the cultivation, drying and testing of hemp for medical purposes. In technical and professional terms, the cultivation of medical hemp is therefore particularly difficult, as high quality standards of produced and dried plants depend on the safety, quality and efficiency of the products and medicines to be produced from it. It is not clear from the bill whether the production of medical hemp on six hectares is envisaged in open or closed areas or in greenhouses. It should be pointed out here that the appropriate quality and stability of crop production cannot be ensured in the fields. In addition, there is a high potential for outdoor cultivation of its own contamination and contamination of other plants and seeds in the environment. It should also be noted that the risk of depriving or stealing cannabis is also significantly higher in outdoor cultivation than in the case of cultivation in closed areas, which are adequately protected. The provisions of the proposed law on redemption, resale and storage are not in line with the Single Convention, and the provisions on the competence of the authorities to issue authorisations for the cultivation of hemp are inconsistent with both the Ministry of Health and the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. The latter currently lacks neither the staffing nor the spatial conditions for the performance of the tasks of the authority concerned, and therefore the implementation of the law in this respect would constitute an increase in the public financial obligation. In particular, it should be pointed out that the proposal for a law does not contain criminal provisions, and the proposal also provides for a short period between the application of the law and the actual application of the law. We agree that in Slovenia we need an open and professional debate in which the views of the profession and all stakeholders are clearly presented. Today's and other debates contribute confidently to the fact that decisions on the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia are based on international law and on professional and scientific grounds. Above all, we want to take into account the scientific knowledge and interest of people, especially those most vulnerable, both in today's debate and in decision-making, these are children, adolescents and patients. It should be noted that the non-critical promotion of cannabis as a versatilely effective plant poses a number of risks, as data from the annual report on the state of illicit drugs indicate that the number of cannabis poisonings in Slovenia is increasing annually, as well as a large proportion of those who abuse cannabis among young people. Compared to their peers in European countries, we far exceed this level of cannabis abuse. They are doctors and should remain independent and autonomous in the treatment of their patients. Doctors are aware that all medicines available can be used in the treatment of their patients, including canabinoids, of course, if this is mainly in accordance with professional recommendations or protocols for the treatment of disease. This is how canabinoids are used in the treatment of paediatric patients, neurologists and, above all, oncologists. Let me get this straight. The Ministry of Health shall carry out all the measures and activities necessary to ensure safe, effective and accessible medicines for patients required by medical indications, one of our most important tasks and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Secretary of State! The new law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs on the Committee did not receive sufficient support. Coalition colleagues and colleagues have decided that the content is not suitable for further consideration. They followed the opinion of the Government, which – interestingly – for several years with the same arguments of avoidance, prepared a proposal that would allow the cultivation, production, processing of hemp for medical purposes. Notwithstanding the fact that the National Assembly or the Health Committee, as legislator, has repeatedly ordered analysis of the possibilities and legal bases for cannabis cultivation, the Ministry of Health is continuing its ignorance and is reviving all the positive solutions that such legislation would bring into the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that this is a first attempt, but the proposals for a solution are similar. This is a proposal which sets out in its solutions the regulation of the cultivation, processing and use of industrial hemp for medical purposes. It would specify the rules for the production, processing and use of hemp for medical purposes in a manner consistent with international guidelines and accepted international documents. The proposal regulated the granting of a marketing authorisation to which the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was to be responsible, the area of crop purchase and its resale. The proposers also introduced control over the marketing authorisation and the regular notification of the planned quantities of crops and the control of customers. The Marjan Šarca Group supports the regulation of this area, i.e. cultivation, production and processing of hemp for medical purposes. In October 2019, Kolega Golubović addressed the then government of Marjana Šarca with a written initiative concerning the cultivation of medical cannabis. It was based on the fact that the Health Committee had already adopted a decision in April 2019 calling on the competent ministry to draw up a final report and submit it to the government by the end of 2019, together with a proposal for legal grounds to allow the cultivation of cannabis plants in Slovenia for the production of cannabis, cannabis resin and other cannabis products for medical purposes, and an analysis of the costs and benefits of the legal arrangements for the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes. The government’s response at the time was positive, as it was clearly said that the working group had already started with the preparation of the report, together with a proposal for legal bases that would make it possible to do so. To this day, the National Assembly has not been familiar with all the documents. The fact is that the profession has already confirmed that the positive effects of cannabis are known in the treatment of patients with cancer, assistance in the nutrition of patients with AIDS, in the treatment of neuropathic pain in patients with multiple sclerosis, in epilepsy, headache, palliative care, Crohn’s disease, diseases of various neurological diseases and others. The parliamentary initiative also highlighted a positive approach of the medical profession, which could prescribe prescriptions for the use of cannabis by additional education and guidance on specific areas. And all of this, at least from the point of view of health and care to the sick, is not enough for the competent ministry and the government. Governments do not even allow for multiple effects, which show that Slovenia should not miss these opportunities. The developed pharmaceutical industry in Slovenia and its reputation in the world are undoubtedly a guarantee that Slovenia should hurry by properly regulating the cultivation and processing of cannabis for medical purposes. In Macedonia alone, which has already adopted appropriate arrangements, 2 000 to 3 000 new highly qualified jobs are planned in the pharmaceutical industry over the next few years, not to mention foreign and domestic investment. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, the proposal concludes that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. It is true, as the Legislative and Legal Service has written, that the proposal is weak, incomplete, because it is complex matter, but it is a starting point on which the Government or the Ministry of Health can finally respect the legislative branch of power and implement the decisions imposed on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State, all welcome! The Social Democrats also conclude that the law drafted by the SAB is not appropriate, and we cannot support it. We supported the law on the board, but the reason is simple. When the Slovenian administration does not want something, it invests extremely much energy, time, creates a bunch of papers to prove that something is not good. If at least 10% of this effort were to make a difference, we would really be better off. The Slovenian administration has also promised to prepare everything necessary to break the monopoly of foreign producers in Slovenia. What's the situation now? I'm not going to talk about the need or the need, I'm not a doctor, the use of preparations that are due to extracts from the medical hemp. That's not necessary, it's up to the doctors. As far as I know, some patients are also prescribed this medicine to help them get it. However, it is completely inappropriate not to allow Slovenian producers to take a step forward. We have succeeded in the past that we have moved at least so much rigid administration in the right direction that Slovenian farmers and farmers are allowed to grow industrial hemp, and there have been great problems. I don't understand why Slovenian peasants and farmers should not grow – of course under prescribed conditions, in a prescribed manner, under supervision – even medical hemp for medical purposes? Why not? Are we really going to protect the monopolies of foreign producers? Our job is to help our people. And if we go one step further. For example, Slovenian laboratories, which we have many and are good, should not buy from farmers medical hemps under prescribed conditions and obtain extracts that would then be prepared by appropriate healthcare professionals to patients who could be helped by these extracts. The proposal tabled by the SAB is not the only one in this House. Believe me, he's not the only one in this National Assembly. There'll be new ones. But he's one of the experiments. That's why I feel terrible listening to a government say a million reasons why it's not good; but don't make a better solution. I want the Slovenian farmer to have the right, as does the farmer of Macedonia and many others, to have the activity of producing medical hemp in his country, but the agricultural minister cannot allow it. The Minister of Agriculture was never the one who obstructed this place. The Ministry of Health refused to allow it. Now let us take a step forward, allow a new activity to the Slovenian farmer and farmer. Allow new activities to Slovenian Galen laboratories and in this country we will take one small but important step forward to break the monopoly of foreign producers. The Group of Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of the proposal that this law is not appropriate. Just the opposite. Have a nice day ahead!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I, too, find it terrible to listen to the ignorant, outdated and shameful views of the government's representative. So much for that. In Levika we have been working for a long time to legalise cannabis for medical and recreational purposes; and we have not done this recklessly and accidentally and by writing ad hoc laws, but we have begun to work legalisation gradually. First we took care of hemp for nutritional purposes, that's what the Minister of the Jews knows, and then we moved on. In the first place, we wanted the positive effects of this plant to be of benefit to those who need it most – cancer patients, epilepsy, AIDS patients and others. And so we have achieved that hemp has moved from the first to the second group of illicit drugs, and this was a necessary condition for the plant to be used for medical purposes. But unfortunately that wasn't enough. The permit to raise cannabis hybrids for medical purposes was granted only by the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology and no one else. I can hardly understand why that is. One of the Committee's decisions, referred to in our request in 2016, was to allow for the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia, but this has not yet happened. From this point of view, we welcome this proposal for a law which, however, may force the competent ministry to speed up procedures. And as far as it's known, the Ministry of Health reportedly is preparing a law that will systematically regulate this area. But we've never seen him before. In an increasing number of countries, medical regulation of cannabis plants is allowed – and the Ministry should know that – and also cultivation of controlled and limited quantities of cannabis for its own use with a prescription. Hemp is used for medical purposes in most federal states of the United States, in Israel is treated with hemp, in Italy, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Portugal, Spain, Finland, France, Romania, the Netherlands can obtain hemp or cannabinoid recipe. Not in Slovenia, but we want them to be self-sustaining in this area. The Ministry of Health is expected to prepare a regulation or law on the production and processing of hemp for medical purposes by allowing several producers to obtain permits. The conditions must certainly be put in such a way that not only one pharmaceutical multinational will meet, but production will be made possible in a way similar to that of the industrial hemp. If we allow the authorisation to be obtained by several domestic individuals or businesses, we will be able to ensure that the price of medicines is as high as possible and to prevent full dependence on pharmaceutical multinationals. In Levica, we do not therefore support a solution to allow the holder of a drug marketing authorisation to purchase hemp grown for medical purposes, but rather to have the purchase carried out by a public institution, or a newly established hemp agency, or a public agency carrying out such tasks. Following the current regulation, this could be the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and such arrangements are known by, say, Germany and so provided for by the Single Convention on Drugs. The Government amended the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs in March 2016 and for medical purposes it is also permitted to use hemp extracts. But it still doesn't work using the plant itself. On the one hand, the plant is still placed on the list of illicit drugs, even though it is taken; on the other hand, patients cannot access different preparations and preparations containing plant extracts in pharmacies. And for this reason it is certainly necessary to ensure that in Slovenia also the production of cannabis for medical purposes is legalised. This is the only way to provide raw material for preparation of preparations and extracts. That the current regime unjustifiably criminalises patients who are still forced to enter the black market, the Slovenian Medical Chamber also warns. And this ministry should also know where they identify, quote, “that it is in the general interest of patients and professions to provide treatment with medical hemp that would be registered as a medicine. The ZZS also proposes that the Ministry of Health adapt existing legislation and other legal acts by allowing doctors legal treatment with medical hemp.” It is clear from this that there are no reservations, both professional and other, that patients should not be given a much cheaper and more effective treatment as soon as possible than legal synthetics. The proposed law is well-intentioned because it wants to do what the government and the competent ministries have not done. Over the years, the work of the competent authorities has been known and done in a large way, including economic damage. Unfortunately, the law is flawed, but that does not mean that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we are very careful about amending legislation on the production and transport of illicit drugs. On the one hand, we are examining all the arguments given, and on the other hand we do not want to promise citizens and citizens more than we recommend and allow international rules. The Single Convention of the United Nations on Drugs of 1961, which has also been adopted by Slovenia, allows for the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes, provided that the country has strict control over its production, processing and transport. The establishment of a national authority responsible for controlling the cultivation of hemp is required and therefore the authorisation is granted, while at the same time it has the exclusive right to purchase and sell hemp. The competent authority must also have the exclusive right of import, export, wholesale trade and stock storage under the Convention. The authorisation for the cultivation of hemp may only allow growers to grow, harvest and sell crops to a national authority, any processing or extraction of hemp from it to a producer under the Convention. Legal access to cannabis products is possible in the Republic of Slovenia when this is medically justified. First, in 2014, the government made it possible to access synthetic cannabinoids, and in 2017 the classification of hemp plant, hemp resin and hemp extracts was changed, allowing for medical use also the flower and fertile hemp tips. The area that the proposed law touches only superficially is very difficult. Everything is not as simple as it seems at first sight, as we as a country are committed to respecting international agreements. In view of the scale of this black market, the international community can only work together to combat illicit trafficking in illicit drugs, not only us, but only together with other countries, because illicit trade does not refer to national borders. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we are aware of the pace of life today and of all the diseases that this way of life brings. We live at a time when cancer in all its different forms becomes the greatest enemy of life that does not choose among the younger or older population. We are aware that cannabinoids in oncology can have palliative effects, domestically, are able to relieve the symptoms caused by cancer and chemotherapy. We feel sorry for anyone who is in a difficult situation because of a serious illness. We understand that medical hemp treatment can be medically justified in such cases. However, it should be borne in mind that the medical hemp was never the first choice in treatment, but is only one alternative when the first treatment does not help, or as a supportive treatment. Medical cannabis belongs to medicinal products and, as such, must be subject to very strict control as well as other medicinal products of this class. Today's proposal to amend the Act on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs, as tabled in the Parliamentary Procedure by the SAB Group, does not provide for this necessary control. We have not supported the proposed novels on the Home Committee of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. The failure to support the law by the three ministries, the Council of State and a number of concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service confirm that our decision was correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Mr President, Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members! Hemp is still often stigmatized and treated only too often as a drug. Despite this good part of the profession, cannabis is more than helping in many of the most serious diseases, reducing chronic pain, reducing muscle cramps, mitigating symptoms of AIDS, cancer, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, glaucoma, also having a positive effect on depression and anxiety disorders. Nevertheless, Slovenian legislation in the field of cannabis is one of the oldest in Europe. Since 2017, when cannabis from the first group of illicit drugs has been transferred to the second group, nothing has happened between plants and substances which are otherwise dangerous to health but can be used in medicine. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we have tabled a new law that is before you today and whose main objective is to help the most difficult patients by setting out conditions for the cultivation, processing and use of Indian hemp for medical purposes. In order to obtain a quality and affordable medicinal product from naturally produced hemp for medical purposes on the domestic soil, we must first regulate the relevant legislation. For this moment we are only bound by imports of extremely limited quantities, as it is only possible to use hemp for medical purposes but not for its cultivation, processing and production. It's just not acceptable anymore. In addition, imported products are only synthetic, meaning that their concentrations of medicinal substances do not reach the desired value, are difficult to access and expensive, therefore more or less unattainable to Slovenian patients. In this regard, we have in mind, in particular, all individuals who are forced to serve the black market and are not only exposed to law enforcement authorities, but also to some sort of processing and uncontrolled doses of such medicines. I therefore reiterate that the amendment regulates regulation for the cultivation, production and production of hemp for medical purposes only; and not for its legalisation. The last issue in the public opens up a broader debate and delays the adoption of any solution in this area in the uncertain future. However, with the benefit of individuals suffering from serious diseases, the adoption of the law would contribute to: the reduction or elimination of the black market, the additional inflow to the budget treasury, the creation of new jobs, the production of a professional pharmacy product and the unloading of courts and other authorities involved in the pursuit of prohibited hemp cultivation for medical purposes. At the same time, the law would increase export options instead of waiting for imported small, difficult to reach and expensive quantities. I point out and address the government in particular in this place – we discussed this in depth several times in the National Assembly, and we also adopted some conclusions that remain unfulfilled. Our proposal may not be ideal and may not offer a systemic solution, as we would like to say, but it is currently the only one who has made a great deal of distress with the most serious diseases and has tried to cut the Gordy knot that is still firmly committed in this area. We will therefore vote against the proposed decision in the SAB Group. Once again, however, we call on the government to regulate this issue as soon as possible, as it has already promised in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! If we look a little bit at the history of the National Assembly, we can see that there have already been several attempts by Members and Members to regulate the hemp area for both medical and industrial purposes. The latest attempts to regulate the medical hemp date back to 2018 when various proposals were tabled by two groups. However, we need to distinguish between the issue of the regulation and regulation of cannabis for medical use for matter, which is significantly different from the question of the legalisation of cannabis for recreational use. It's obviously not that easy to settle this area. We are talking about a substance that is defined as illicit drugs, which requires extreme caution and we are also committed to international acts in this area, so we cannot just plant cannabis in the open space. For cultivation, appropriate conditions must be met, quality checks need to be checked, storage, packaging and distribution methods should be specified. It is a medicine and, as such, it must achieve all the necessary standards. The rules applicable to other medicinal products should also apply to hemp. The content of individual substances should be strictly defined and standardised. The medicinal product should be tested through extensive clinical trials and tested for safety, efficacy and adverse reactions and should also be approved by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. During the debate on the working body, we have found that the proposal of the law before us today does not fully address the problem of hemp cultivation for medical purposes. By means of the proposed law, Slovenia would eventually violate the provisions of the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961, which, under clearly defined conditions, allows countries parties to the Convention to cultivate cannabis for scientific, scientific and medical purposes. As we know that the Ministry of Health has been working for a long time, together with other stakeholders in the field of illicit drugs and professional institutions within its competences, to fully regulate the area of cannabis cultivation for medical purposes, we propose that these efforts be brought to an end, so that Slovenia will no longer be bound to imports of cannabis for medical purposes from other countries, which is poor both in terms of the economy and in terms of patients who use cannabis for treatment. In the Desus Group, we therefore propose that the competent ministry, in cooperation with the expertise and example of the good practices of other countries, draw up a comprehensive proposal and finally submit it to the legislative procedure. This will also prevent the operation of the black market, where prices, quality and self-use are completely uncontrolled. Customers are often patients who unfortunately don't know what they're buying. In the Desus Group, on the fact that the proposal for a law is flawed and that the solutions in the bill are incomplete and unclear, we will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	The mother’s working body has decided that the proposal for a novel Law on the production and transport of illicit drugs, which would regulate the cultivation, production, processing and use of hemp for medical purposes, is inappropriate for further treatment. We regret the decision of the working body in the Group of Non-Related Members. We are aware that the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that the issue under consideration requires comprehensive regulation and that the proposed solutions are lacking. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we support all proposals to move forward in this area. The area of use of cannabis for medical purposes has already been regulated for the last two mandates, but we have maintained that, last time in 2017, we have made it possible to use mainly synthetic medicines containing hemp extracts. In 2017 we moved hemp from the first group of illicit drugs to the second group. In the first group, plants and substances — very dangerous to human health due to the severe consequences that their abuse can cause and are not used in medicine. In another group, however, there are plants and substances that are otherwise hazardous to health but can be used in medicine. Amendments to the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs have made it possible to prescribe cannabinoids for medical purposes for medical purposes, but these medicines are only available to patients from imports, since cannabis production and processing for medical purposes have remained prohibited for us. In 2018, two different legislative proposals were thus formulated to address the issue of the use of cannabis for both recreational and medical purposes, but they did not wait for epilogues in the legislative process. The applicants sought to prevent the black market by regulation and to enable patients and other users in particular to reach the THC-rich hemp in a legal manner. Now they have to buy it on the black market, and that also means a lot of risk. The Health Committee has already adopted conclusions in 2018 calling on the Government to regulate this area, but there has not been an appropriate response to date. Similarly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to date failed to provide an appropriate Slovenian translation of the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961. Until there is an appropriate translation or, above all, an understanding of the concept of cannabis, regulation will be based on wrong assumptions. For many years, the need for radical and comprehensive amendment of cannabis legislation has been pointed out by informed and growing civil society, doctors and scientists. They support research and proper regulation of cannabis for medical purposes and point out that it is time to change the skeletal views on the use of this plant. Why? Due to its comprehensive use and positive effects and many opportunities for an economy facing many problems during this difficult period. The fact is that Slovenian legislation in the field of cannabis is one of the most outdated. In the European Union, cannabis is a multibillion-dollar business, which is of no benefit to industry but also to medicine. In 2020, the European Medical Hemp Market was worth 250 million euros. In the following year, the value is expected to double. Experts estimate that by 2024 the legal market for cannabis in Europe will be up to 2.1 billion euros, so more than 40 countries worldwide have legalised medical hemp. Currently, in 19 countries across Europe, the use of medical cannabis is legal if prescribed by a doctor. Prohibition and inadequate regulation do the most harm to whom? Hospitals. Therefore, bolder steps are urgently needed. The potential of medical cannabis in health care is already recognised for certain diseases and is subject to research for many others. That is why this area represents a remarkable potential and a large market. Slovenia has the knowledge that companies dealing with medical hemp are expecting only the preparation of appropriate legal bases and support for development needed for a competitive performance in the European and global markets. As you know, the regulation of legislation in this area has been a priority for us and has also been included in the coalition contract of the current government at my initiative. Despite the fact that I am no longer a member of the government coalition, we will continue as unrelated Members with our colleagues in the effort to draft the law on the use of cannabis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Good day to all in the hall, especially the secretary of state! The applicant shall pursue a noble objective of regulating the cultivation, processing and use of hemp for medical purposes. This is the area we have always advocated in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group that it should be regulated. We support the use of cannabis for medical purposes. We believe, however, that the proposaler has chosen the wrong law in which he wants to regulate this area. We will support the government proposal, namely the law on the cultivation and transport of hemp for medical purposes, which we believe is much more professionally prepared and will cause users less problems or complications in practice. It is important that the area is regulated legally and appropriately, and it does not matter to people who is proposing the law itself. The problem remains the people who have used cannabis in all these years for medical purposes and have been persecuted and convicted. For these persons, they should adopt an amnesty law in order to eliminate the penalties imposed on them. There has certainly been an injustice here in the past, which should be urgently corrected at the same time as the adoption of a law regulating this area. Today, due to science, social conditions have so advanced that cannabis is treated differently today than in the past. So, in a milder form. This needs to be adapted to the entire criminal system and, above all, to amnesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Good day to you all! In Slovenia, the production or cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes is not allowed, as we have already heard today, and there are also very few countries around the world where cannabis cultivation is permitted. In Slovenia it is already possible to use cannabis products for medical purposes, but Slovenia is entirely dependent on the import of this medicinal product from abroad. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that this area needs to be regulated, but on such a sensitive subject, this legislative amendment must be adopted step by step and in a broad consensus, particularly with expertise. However, the proposer would like this amendment to allow for the production, processing and transport of hemp for medical purposes, following a reduced procedure, since the proposed amendment will also have positive effects on economic growth and on the state treasury. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the issue under consideration requires, in particular, a comprehensive regime and the definition of entities which may obtain authorisation for the cultivation of hemp, the obligations of the holders of the authorisation, the definition of grounds for withdrawal, the regulation of procedural issues, the definition of the type of hemp seeds which may be used for medical purposes, the definition of land where hemp may be grown, the annual quantities allowed, the quality analysis, the establishment of compulsory purchase records and the physical acquisition of the whole crop, the conditions for further sale and export, control and also inspection measures. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, which stated in its opinion that the proposed solutions were flawed, incomplete, unclear and insufficient to meet the standard of clarity and certainty. “The solutions proposed are also controversial in terms of consistency with the international treaties that bind Slovenia” the Legislative and Legal Service concludes its opinion. The Ministry of Health has also informed members on the home working body that it is already preparing a draft proposal for a law on the cultivation and transport of hemp for medical purposes, which, of course, respects international law, all professional requirements, standards and regulations. Because of the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the Health Committee for the amendment of the law, we did not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 9 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 7. In the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 32. At the top of the agenda, this is a proposal for a health protection and health insurance law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of eight Members and first-signed Miho Kordiš. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Micha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian health system is in crisis. No, I'm not talking about the covida-19 epidemic, I'm talking about a state that was in our health field before the Coronavirus started. The reason why the health system is in crisis is two. The first lies in the fact that the public network, the public health system has been privatising for 30 years with various forms of legalised corruption and legalised transfer of public money into private pockets, from the doctors of amphibians to overpayments in purchases and complementary health insurance on the forehead. And the second reason lies in the fact that in Slovenia, in general, public health is not a priority anywhere but in empty rhetoric. The numbers confirm that. Only 5.9% of GDP is the amount of public funds that Slovenia spends on health financing. Let us compare this with the most developed countries of the European Union. Here is the number of 7,2 % of GDP. Of course, these priorities, after which the health system has been neglected for decades, need to be addressed. There is a need to reserve budgetary resources for investments in premises and equipment. At present, too many hospitals work in places where windows do not close, in clinics where water does not flow, even in 150 years old buildings, some departments are located. What we are proposing in Levica with today's law is yet another step forward, this is the budget guard of the health treasury, which is the payer of material and services in the Slovenian health system. So public health needs to be strengthened not only by direct funding from the budget for investments in space and equipment, but also by additional budget inflows into material and services, or into material and personnel, if you want. This is achieved in a way that protects medical bills in the same way as that of a pensioner in that country. If there is a shortfall in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from the contribution to this health care allowance, the deficit must cover the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and provide unconditionally adequate health care to all citizens and citizens in that country when they need it. Health is not a commodity, health is a human right, and the Slovenian policy disagrees and turns out differently. The health-care budget is also something that the same health-care department has been demanding for a long time. In particular, the importance of budgetary co-financing of medical bills is reflected in crisis situations. As our health allowance depends on the contributions paid, of course, the amount of contributions paid goes down every time capitalism falls into the crisis; and capitalism often falls into the crisis. Therefore, at a time when people are most under stress, the most social, as a result, is also the health - related, health - care system, or the health treasury, which is also financially the most malnourished. The same has also been true in the covida-19 epidemic, since even the government of Janez Janša understood the need for budgetary co-financing of the health treasury and introduced limited budgetary co-financing of the health treasury in the past year only for expenditure related to the covida-19 epidemic. In Levica we say that this logic, which is the right logic, must be adopted and extended to the entire health treasury for all health expenses. People in this country must not be held hostage to the crisis of capitalism, to talk about health catastrophes or the other cracks of economic balloons. Their health must be a priority; their health must be a human right, which in politics flows into numbers; with our concrete proposal for budgetary co-financing of public health remittances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The opening presentation of the opinion of the Government will be presented by Mrs Alenka Forte, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Once again a lovely greeting, the distinguished President of the National Assembly, the honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Miho Kordis submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal to supplement the Health and Health Insurance Act 23. 6. 2020. The proposed amendment provides for the introduction of a new third paragraph of Article 45, which provides that the deficit created by the Health Insurance Office for the Covida-19 epidemic shall be covered by the provision of funds from the State budget. As you know, a number of measures have been taken in the context of the intervention legislation to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, under which the State budget has assumed the obligation to finance certain content and has thus significantly burdened the health treasury. From the State budget, funds have been provided for hospital leave compensation since the first day of absence, and revenue shortfalls of the Health Insurance Office have also been replaced due to the exemption of health insurance contributions from compensation paid to workers on temporary leave for work, due to increased strength and for self-employed and farmers. The state budget has also provided funds for covidu-19 vaccination, for the transport of covido-19 patients, for covida-19 medicines, for rapid antigen testing and also for influenza vaccination. In 2020, 50 million Euros were provided from the State budget under the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to cover the costs associated with covida-19, and in 2021 these funds were even EUR 200 million. In doing so, let me explain that the Ministry of Monthly Level monitors the compliance of the institution's operations with the financial plan adopted and has an assessment of the financial implications of the covida-19 epidemic on the operations of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposal does not address the long-term stability of healthcare financing, as all public treasury funds must, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, ensure the medium-term balance of income and expenditure, nor provide for a time window in which the deficit of the institution would be covered by the State budget. Nor does the bill contain projections on the impact on fiscal sustainability of the budget, so it cannot be argued that such a solution would not pose a greater threat to the stability of public finances. In view of the increasing trend in health spending, we must note that the proposal for a law can have a negative impact on the overall fiscal framework. In order to achieve fiscal objectives during this period, expenditure on other items should also be reduced. Given the budget agreed in advance, this would mean cuts to other social security systems. In view of the above, the Government does not support the proposal to supplement the Health and Health Insurance Act. As so far, on the basis of the actual business data and the impact of the covida-19 epidemic on healthcare operations, the Government will continue its efforts to implement and adopt measures that will ensure the stable and smooth functioning of the institution and thus also of healthcare providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! What are basically public health and health systems? These are systems within generation and intergenerational solidarity. Whether we fill these cash registers in the continental way of Bismarck or we fill them in the Anglo-Saxon way, the vast majority of countries and societies are heading towards some convergence when we are talking about finance, of course, also aware of the development of medicine and ageing societies. Before this coved epidemic, which, thanks to a largely poor government, has become a pandemic, that budgetary part of the public health treasury – it seems to me that our colleague has only repeatedly exposed – about 5%. We are clearly aware that this share must be higher. Social Democrats also agree that there cannot be on the one hand the fact that the pension register, as I say, is being fucked up; health care is not. I must say, I have somehow been struck by the position of the Government, which is given by the Secretary of State. On the one hand — Hu, it has never been so nice and so cheap to owe, we will owe ourselves cheerfully without thinking about how our grandchildren and grandchildren will pay for it. On the other hand, when some opposition proposes – U, look at it as a fraction of the fiscal rule. We should probably have the same vat here for everyone, Madam Secretary of State. Then it is said, "Yes, other social transfers will suffer. We have a problem in health care that is being given and given a relatively large amount of money, while at the same time the policy does not deal with the policy of Slovenian public health in a narrower sense. Any government – left, right, yours, ours, theirs, carrots – has three key things: healthy people, smart people and coming out of this smart, healthy, intelligent work and creating something that you will then melt. We also have a problem with having a cash register because the pensions went down that way. We have a problem of long-term retirement. It's also a story that needs to be solved. When I was still chairing this difficult committee, we talked to the first men of the two cash registers. We have some kind of occupational illness problem. We pay some companies, which are mostly in foreign ownership, certain amounts to keep jobs; at the same time, somewhere where a robot could be a robot, we have a beautiful robot factory in Kočevska, we have a worker who will grab 35 kilos, shake them under the counter, watch whether it rips off his hands and so on. This is some story, Madam Secretary of State and any government, when you have to think with the spaghetti much wider; and both Social Democrats and the new Left are able to think that way, and then it seems to me that this is already stopping. This is how health care needs to be viewed, so it must be watched after all, because we often forget because it is right that we have the Ministry of Health. Personally, I think that the Committee should also be renamed the Health Committee, but not just a fire drill, if I may put it that way. Of course, we need to move away from this, as I have repeatedly said, whether yours, ours or their cousin will concretely think of certain policies. At this meeting we will also discuss some law – Hoop, put 2 billion into the health system. Any serious book you read about health systems will tell you that the primary level has to process four-fifths. Of the two billion, there will be about 50 million for the primary level, for it will be an excuse to be on the shoulders of the congregations. There is a whole range of issues that need to be considered in relation to the legislation in question. The Social Democrats will support this purpose of the Left. In this brief position, which I said, as it were, in English, from the heart, I kind of figured out what to think about here. But for that we will need the National Assembly, which will not be a predominant rallies, mainly on Twitter, but will be what basically politics in constitutional-parliamentary democracies as the legacy of enlightenment is – the public use of the mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	President, for the record. Madam Secretary of State, fellow Members, and fellow Members! It is clear to the Slovenian public that the public health system in the country has successfully faced increased needs and additional burdens at the time of the coronary crisis. And in the Research and Documentation Sector of the National Assembly they have clearly written down, we have even once applauded it here in the National Assembly, so they write: "The current crisis indicates the importance of universal health care as a key element for the stability of health systems." Public health alone can be truly universal, which means that it is accessible to all in accordance with the solidarity principle that we have established. And since the Slovenian public health system is largely financed and based on the funding of contributions, it is highly susceptible to economic fluctuations, the crisis, the growth of unemployment, so it is extremely cyclical and fragile to crises. In addition, the system is set up as it is, does not include any meaningful fuses that would represent one safety cushion in the event of crises. And this safety pillow needs our public health system; also for human stability, not only the fiscal nature of our country. This is about life and health, as it is about ensuring fundamental human rights to access health services that cannot be dependent on economic cycles. The absence of this fuse is indeed an anomaly, because — as has been said before — a larger health system in our country, it is a pensioner, it contains a fuse. The Republic of Slovenia shall provide resources from the budget and other sources to the PSI if the revenue from contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance does not cover expenditure. Why is it not self-evident when we talk about the health and health of people, about their ability to be treated in Slovenia? Health services are needed by people in the same way as they need pensions; and there is no reason that there is no need for public health bills to be co-financed by the budget here as well. Slovenia is one of the countries in the European Union where public expenditure due to population ageing will increase most; and this is the population, or we are or will be the population that needs the most quality and rapid health services. Unfortunately, the healthcare system is put in place so that financial pressures are resolved mainly through the impairment of patients' rights in us and the reduction of the percentage of coverage of health services from compulsory health insurance to healthcare providers. However, any reduction in the percentages of the value in which insurance persons are covered by the payment entitlements of health services means an increased share of the coverage from the supplementary health insurance. As a result, this leads to an increase in supplementary health insurance premiums, a deterioration in the situation of the most vulnerable and a real increase in inequalities in Slovenia. And as the National Institute for Public Health has pointed out, I quote: “We have been recording a trend in public funding for health care in Slovenia since 2010, leading directly to an increase in private resources in the financing of health care.” In short, we need to pay more and more for these services when we get to a doctor. And here we stand out increasingly in a negative sense as an exemplar case in Slovenia. Or, as Dr. Velimir Bole of the Institute of Economic Research said analytically, in 2017, he said: "A correction of health funding is needed. First, it is necessary to adapt the actual funding to the formal or statutory financing. Financial resources for health care should then be increased, as the lack of resources is a key reason for the lower quality of health services. And I add – also the accessibility of health services. Let me finish. The crisis has led to a significant reduction in the inflows to the health register due to an increase in unemployment, a slowdown in wages, an increase in the proportion of inactive debtors. And macroeconomic forecasts show that in the coming years the healthcare system will face financial pressures. The increase in the number of pensioners, as I have already said, means, among other things, that the contribution of pensioners is lower than that of employees. However, health care expenditure is closely linked to contributions to the health treasury. Despite reduced resources, the content and scope of services have not changed in the last few years. In order to maintain the scope of health services within the means available, three strategies had to be applied in the health register. First of all, they were lowering prices, so they suffered from healthcare providers, they delayed payments, they also suffered health care providers or providers of medical devices and other necessary medical matters. And they spent increasing costs on supplementary health insurance, thereby exacerbating the social situation of the weakest and the least-income people in our country, who unfortunately have little and their percentage is growing. In the long term, it will be necessary to provide alternative resources or to reduce the basket of compulsory health insurance rights or to continuously reduce the prices of health services in order to maintain the scope and quality of services. It is more than obvious from the above that root corrections of the funding system are needed. A key and first step towards ensuring the stability of financing and consequently ensuring accessibility to health care should be the introduction of a budget protector. Colleagues and colleagues, the choice before which we are Members and Members of the National Assembly is very simple; it is either to ensure the financial stability of the public health system, or to leave it to be in the future that the rights or additional burden on supplementary health insurance are violated and thus to people who will have to pay even higher rates for supplementary health insurance. The public health system has protected us from the crisis and it is our duty to maintain and strengthen it. In Levika, we will vote for the budgetary guardian of the public health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! One of the most important health laws is, among other things, the Health and Health Insurance Act. In New Slovenia, we have been constantly warning that the existing health system no longer meets the needs of modern society, both organisationally and financially, or according to the way it is financed, so it needs to be updated. Yesterday's discussions by today's proponents have clearly shown that they do not have human, patient and quality and rapid health treatment, but rather the fight against progress, free economic initiative and the reduction of waiting types. From the measures taken in recent years, we can see that only an increase in funding to reduce waiting lines and to eliminate indebted and illiquid public institutions, both hospitals and health homes, does not have the expected effects. Moreover, some institutions do not want to change their business style despite several years of illiquidity and expect the consequences of their wrong decisions to be borne by the State and the unjustified spending covered by the budget. And that's exactly what Left wants. By law, he wants to introduce a blank menu to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which means that we would go into the health system of unlimited amounts of money regardless of their eligibility and effectiveness; however, there is no guarantee that patients would receive better and faster services. In the light of past experience, it would have been quite the opposite – waiting periods would have been extended and patients could have gone to Croatia, Austria or another European country for free instead of domestic free capacity providers. After yesterday's adoption of the amendment to cascading reduction of waiting types, I hope to say that in the next three years we will not reduce waiting lines in Slovenia in this way, and that patients will still have to undergo free interventions in the framework of compulsory health insurance earlier than abroad. That's sad. This is not the solution we advocate in Novi Slovenije. We want the money to follow people who pay health insurance, taxes in Slovenia; and when they need a service or an operation, it is available to them in a very short time regardless of the operator, at home, in Slovenia. Christian Democrats do not agree that the health of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia is in the hands of one and the only monopolistic provider of compulsory health insurance, because it poses an excessive corruption risk and is not effective and friendly to a patient waiting in line for intervention through a permissible waiting period. The Left wants to legalise this and into a bottomless health bag, without any reorganisation of the work just throw more money away, so the Members of New Slovenia will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted today by the Group of Members of the Left, provides for budgetary co-financing by the Health Insurance Office in the event that the obligations covered by compulsory health insurance cannot be covered by the contributions collected from such insurance. We have been waiting for a year to consider the proposal of this law, and this year, a year of epidemics, which marked our health care, and at the same time exposed all its shortcomings, we have found out what our health needs really is. In the SAB Group, we believe that it does not need new financial injections or, in this case, a bag of money without a bottom, but rather an appropriate allocation of both human resources and existing financial resources. The health department has already received strong cash injections in recent years, but there has been no real effect. Patients still too often do not receive the care they urgently need and deserve. Therefore, we firmly believe that the so-called budget guard, based on the example of the pension fund, will not have a real impact. For the first time, because the amount of expenditure cannot be clearly defined as for pension insurance, where such a system of budgetary insurers we already have. So it would go to the bottomless health system. And a second time. The fact that we do not already know how to allocate the existing resources properly does not give us the hope that the new financial protectors will bring about substantial improvements, on the contrary, the money would flow even more than it does now, as budget coverage would always be available to dig the financial hole. At this point, I simply need to emphasise that the budget is not a magic box from which we can take and take and impose new obligations. The budget operates on the principle of a balanced scale; if we want it to be balanced, we must aim to ensure that the obligation on the one hand corresponds to the obligation on the other. In other words, if we add somewhere else, we have to take it somewhere else. And because of the budgetary planning of this government, when Slovenia records a record deficit in the state budget and a record public debt, we simply cannot afford such commitments, which are still quantifiable. In the SAB, a client of social liberals, we stress all the time that the patient should be placed at the centre of health care and that the patient should be allowed to receive it as soon as he needs it. But with such broad solutions, which are not financially supported, we will not achieve this absolutely but would only endanger the stability of public finances. Health is universal value, human rights and the most important part of the welfare of each individual. Thus, resources for health for each individual are extremely important. Therefore, citizens who pay conscientiously in health bills rightly expect the available health resources to be distributed in a way that ensures the highest quality, efficiency and accountability in health. The functioning of healthcare organisations must be such as to achieve the greatest extent social interests, such as equal access to services, quality of services, care for citizens' health, and sustainable financing. This must always be before our eyes, especially in these health-care-critical times. Therefore, we will not support the draft law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye! Today, we have another proposal on the table for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act. The proposal that we are going to have a general discussion today discusses the financing of the health treasury and offers an easy solution – a deficit in the health treasury would be covered by the provision of funds from the state budget. We are aware that demographic and technological changes with consequences for the health system dictate the search for new solutions. The population’s expectations for quality health care are also increasing, and we are finally facing an epidemic. All of this has a major impact on the sustainability of the health system, but is the proposed solution really a response to the long-term stability of healthcare financing in Slovenia?Oh, my God! Unfortunately, public finances are also subject to the legality of the material world, which requires you to run into the bottom quickly when you are exhausted. And the other law is that if you put it somewhere, you have to take it somewhere else. For the country is operating in the context of pre-defined budgetary resources. Of course, on the other hand, we are faced with the fact that public funding for health care as well as long-term care has ensured access to a wide range of rights, which also contributes to reducing poverty and inequality, particularly among the elderly. We are therefore obliged to ensure the financial sustainability and smooth functioning of healthcare and Slovenian health care. Statistics on the structure of current expenditure on health by sources of funding in Slovenia show that expenditure on state and local budgets for current health expenditure is 3.4%, while the remaining funding is 68.8% provided by compulsory social insurance. The difference is provided from voluntary health insurance and other resources. After the total consumption of health care per population, we are in Slovenia somewhere below the average of the European Union. Slovenia is also included under the average of the European Union in the use of health prevention, as the European average is €69 per capita and in Slovenia only 62. In the area of prevention, it would therefore make sense to make further efforts. We are currently facing a crisis that has also affected the health profession in particular. In this area, the government has adopted a series of measures and intervention legislation that address the issue mainly through state budget funds. At the systemic level, wider solutions will need to be sought for the long-term financial sustainability of the healthcare system. In addition, in the Desus Group, we reiterate that changes to the Health and Health Insurance Act are not to be done without the idea of long-term care. Health and long-term care are inseparable; they are both intended for all generations, i.e. not only pensioners, but also young people who are dependent on the help of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks because of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity for a long time. In the area of long-term care, until the adoption of a specific law regulating long-term care insurance, the lack of resources will have to be provided from the State budget; thus, the budget will already be additionally burdened in any case. In the light of all the above, we will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Nice greetings again to all present! We advocate the right to basic health care for all citizens and citizens by not favouring marginal groups and communities, but at least migrant groups, in providing basic health care. The Slovenian national party supports free initiative and private work in health without reservation, and we advocate that the level of basic compulsory health will rise to at least the level already guaranteed in the past. When looking for health solutions, we always have a proposal to raise funds or guarantees. We believe that it is not always the solution of some kind of recapitalisation of the health system, but the solution can also be the optimisation or rationalisation of the current resources. Overpayments of medical equipment, overpayments of medical material, uncontrolled consumption of medical material, all of this causes an additional minus because it's a manifest waste of everyone's money. But it's saved at the expense of the patients and here's the main problem. Public procurement of medical material at the level of the State or the European Union should be carried out, as was done by purchasing a vaccine against a virus that has been making our lives more difficult lately or for a year. On the other hand, healthcare professionals received incredible pay supplements during the period of this health crisis. I am not talking about not being justified by them, but I am asking the question whether all employees in the public sector have been treated equally. This amount of allowances is certainly being criticised by the private sector, which maintains the economy of this country. Many workers in the private sector have not been entitled to a variety of crisis supplements, such as trades and traders. We also have disproportionate expenditure on postgraduate education of healthcare staff. There are huge reserves here, too, where the institution could make order. In particular, the Institute should ensure that the effective working time of the healthcare staff is actually 40 hours per week. This would shorten a variety of waiting types to the extent of the funds so far. It is not normal for doctors besides work to be forensic experts, professors in colleges, to write articles and other things, all in business time. This is not an effective job, and this institution shouldn't pay. If there was adequate control over the use of the existing situation and the issue of additional financial resources would open up, we immediately agree with this proposal. Now that there is a lobby in the health sector, especially in the procurement of equipment, we unfortunately cannot support the additional health-care guarantee provided by the State, because public health is too irregular. On the other hand, you want to impose such a heavy financial burden on this government. When you had all the levers in your hands, you didn't come to them for support with such suggestions. It is a matter of fomenting bad proposals for solutions to the current authorities under the pretext of acting for a small man. The reform of the health system is not that the state guarantees unlimited health care, as this proposal would ensure that health lobbying is further enriched and that patients are again deprived. It would make sense, however, that the left option once also proposes some public health obligations, not just the allocation of rights and public funds. Since the current law has been in force since 1992, the authorities should, however, regulate the system in a way that is good for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! The Health and Health Insurance Act of 1992 has been amended several times, but almost all of these 30 years have not seen any major changes and some other necessary changes. The amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act proposed by the applicant relates to the current Article 45, which reads as follows: “The means of insurance obligation are provided by contributions paid to the Institute by insured persons, employers and others under this Act by certain undertakings. Contributions shall be paid from the basis laid down by this Act at proportionate rates." The proposed amendment to this Act, however, refers in explanation to two shortcomings in the provisions of the existing law, namely the absence of a budget protector, on the basis of which the institution’s deficit would be financed directly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia during the crisis. As a second flaw, the proposaler states that the increased burden of financing healthcare is being passed back on to individuals, patients and patients as well. In view of the above, the applicant considers that the only reasonable solution is the introduction of the budgetary coverage of the increased expenditure of the Institute of Health Insurance from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, spending on health care is on the rise year after year, and in general it has increased during this co-vid crisis. However, due to an epidemic of collid crises in the budget, countries are provided with funding for measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, which are later dedicated to the Health Insurance Office. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have adopted as many as 9 anti-Korona laws in this National Assembly on the elimination of the consequences of this crisis. The Malones also contain provisions on the basis of which funds are allocated from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the consequences of the crisis to the Institute of Health Insurance, such as, for example, the coverage of the compensation for the absence of hospitals, the payment of health care providers due to the failure to carry out their activities and so on. We have already heard all these measures in the opening position of the Secretary of State. Likewise, the State's Framework Decision on the preparation of the budget of the sector for the period 2020-2022 was adopted in April this year in order to increase the public financial expenditure on health bills by 200 million. However, it can be reasonably expected that, in the light of the unscheduled or distorted programmes of healthcare providers in 2020 and also in 2021, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia has fewer obligations to pay services to health care providers. At this address, the Institute should by no means have a negative result. In addition, I must add that in no way can I forget the repeated statement of the former Director of the Department of Health Insurance, Mr Fakin, who said several times at the meetings of the Health Committee of the mother: “The money in health is sufficient, only it should be properly distributed.” Secondly, the proposed amendment does not specify in which period, and also in what amount, the deficit would be covered by the Institute of Health Insurance from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Their proposal is therefore a blank exchange without a time limit and we cannot support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next presentation, let me just warn you that the general debate of Members and Members will follow. There have been some changes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Marko Bandelli, Dušan Šiško will first have the word. Next is the final presentation of the position of the Marjan Šarc Group, which will be held by Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! In the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we stress that maintaining universal public health is a key element in the stability of the entire health system. This is also highlighted by the subtle approach taken by the current government, Janez Janša, to press for the privatisation of the health system and the transfer of funds from public to private. Public health care providers must provide health care to everyone and must not choose who and how to treat them. Public health is thus a guarantee of a healthy life for all people in Slovenia. The infamous coronavirus has also reminded us of the importance of robust public health systems. Yes, the system that carried all the burdens of treatment for the sick during the epidemic was also at the expense of additional health services. And it is right that all these services are carried out as quickly as possible by all public health institutions. Data show that Slovenia is one of the countries where public spending on health by 2060 will increase most due to the ageing population; and that is also why we have a new law in front of us. What does it bring us? Defending a solidarity universal compulsory health insurance system, strengthening the health system, ensuring greater resilience to financing the health system to change economic growth, maintaining accessibility to health services for all, ensuring the constitutionally guaranteed right to health care, mitigating the consequences of reprisals, irregularities and unwillingness. In order to ensure all of the above, the Health Insurance Office should not be able to cover the obligations covered by compulsory health insurance from the amounts collected, provided that budgetary funding is provided. This is a reinforcement that we wanted to introduce in the parliamentary group at the time of the government of Marjan Šarc when the supplementary health insurance was recast. Remember, for the first time in history, we brought the amendment to the third reading, and in the end, it was not accepted because of such or other political calculations. The government does not support this proposal in its position, which is likely to be followed by the vote of the coalition and supporters, because it is not intended to ensure long-term stability in the financing of the health system, in which it refers to a fiscal rule under which all the so-called medium-term cash flows must be sustainable and that the applicant does not specify a time frame in which the deficit of the institution would be covered by the State budget. On the other hand, we are witnessing unbridled government spending and proposals for new harmful tax legislation, which will cut the state budget by more than €5 billion in the coming years. You heard right, five billion euros. We will be individuals alone because the net salary is supposed to be higher, although this was the only reason to counterweight these five billion, so from their pockets we pay private health services if I'm a little cynical. In the opinion of the Government, I could also conclude that the Health Insurance Office itself, irrespective of the agreements signed, has financial resources. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia does not spend money as it seems. The government is the one proposing the limits of the health budget. The National Assembly, however, approves the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the sector by the State setting out the maximum expenditure on health allowance. They therefore play a key role in this regard by the Government and the National Assembly. When the Health Insurance Office prepares its financial plan, the Government must give it its consent, so there can be no uncontrolled spending. It is only a meaningful response to growing health needs, and only exceptionally. The analysis of the Slovenian health system of the Ministry of Health 2016 also notes, quote: “The pressures on the health system will continue as a result of the growing needs and costs at the time of the stabilisation of the economy, the continuous introduction of new technologies, the increasing burden of chronic infectious diseases and the rapid ageing of the population.” Furthermore, the Slovenian health system is extremely cyclical, which means it is susceptible to economic fluctuations and is resistant to crises, but does not contain any safeguards. The government has not taken any steps in this direction since then. We are all therefore aware of the vulnerability of financing the health system, particularly due to possible emergencies, and it would be right, colleagues and colleagues, to eliminate this vulnerability. Who will take care of people's health in times of crisis if not state mechanisms? Who? The government in its position simply warns and unfortunately does not offer a solution. A bit illogical is the decision of the Government, which, in the parliamentary procedure, submitted the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health in the years 2021 to 2032, which will invest in Slovenian health in the ten years of the year in the budget. The aim of the law is to ensure the long-term sustainability of health infrastructure, as well as to pay attention to a sufficient number of qualified personnel, especially physicians, who can respond to the needs of an ageing population. So we will invest in material, not in the provision of services or in increasing people’s needs. Interesting. The Health Emergency Action Act gives priority to government measures to the inclusion of private people in health care, which further undermines the health system. We expected that the Government would firstly propose measures aimed at vitalising the public health system in order to make better use of existing resources, to put a rational public health network in line with standards and standards, in order to achieve greater productivity for employees and, above all, better access for patients to healthcare at the expense of, of course, reducing waiting periods. We support investments in the entire health infrastructure, including health care, in the Marjan Sarca Group. Health services must remain public and accessible in a reasonable time to anyone who needs them. The basic condition for this is stable funding, good conditions for the work of healthcare professionals and careful human resources planning for the long-term provision of adequate number and structure of healthcare staff. Therefore, we will, of course, support the first reading of the amendment on healthcare and health insurance. I invite you to do the same if you want to, and we want lots of healthy and happy people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one, however, has the floor of the proposer. Then Marco Bandelli and then Jože Lenart. Here you go, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. I listened attentively to the views of the parliamentary groups and to thank the voices of the Social Democrats and the List of Marjan Sarcas, where their Members said that this law would be supported by our law as the budgetary guardian of the health treasury. Before continuing with the additional explanations of the law, I should like to express my disappointment that votes are divided again on the issue of strengthening the public health system in the same way as the previous coalition around supplementary health insurance has broken down. The Socialists in Levica, the Social Democrats and the List of Marjan Šarcs, we then reached out to reach out to the supplementary insurance in some way, which would eventually lead to its abolition, and then the voices of the other political environment ran out. Same thing this time. Two parties that are most likely to have a breast attack to be pensioners – one more coalition, the other as opposition – do not support the budget protectors of the Health Insurance Institute, and the pensioners are exactly the biggest beneficiaries of the health system, which of course is normal, you are older, these health problems are accumulated. But these pensioners are now waiting for interventions because health care is not adequately equipped to meet needs. However, it is not properly equipped because it lacks adequate funding – either direct budgetary investment in spatial operating conditions or a mass of resources for the staff, for the salaries of doctors, for nurses, nurses and so on, and for the materials necessary for intervention. Here you have put yourself in the position that Levica is going to be some financial hooliganism; in fact, we are only putting the interests of citizens and citizens and their right to treatment, that this will no longer be a hostage of such and different crises of capitalism when the income from contributions to the health treasury falls, but the resources will always be provided according to the needs that people have. Just like it already applies to the pension fund. Moreover, pensions do not move up or down, depending on the amount of contributions that the pension fund is filled with, but rather has a pension payer. In the previous year, the transfer from the budget to the pension fund was as much as €1.15 billion, so that those pensions that have been assessed and legally determined can be paid. Are you now going to tell the pensioners that all of a sudden they're running out of money for their pensions? Of course you won't. And the right thing is, no. The same needs to be done in the area of public health financing. I will continue to respond to some of the views of the members of the groups in particular, because their representatives have served with quite a lot of attracted arguments and there are some arguments of opposition to the budget guard's financing of the health treasury from inaccuracies, misunderstandings to complete lies. I would like to begin with the position expressed by the Madam Secretary of State. She said our law does not contain budget projections. Yeah, of course it doesn't. As resources will be shared in the Slovenian health system, it is a matter of general agreement where the cashier as a payer of material and services sits down with individual health care providers and agree on how many interventions, where, for what money. We propose that if existing facilities, spatial, human resources, are identified, but that there is not enough funding to be used to treat patients, the country jumps in and covers them. So if capacity is, and there is no money from contributions, this is covered by the state, very simply, within the framework of a general agreement. That's not something you can even include as a financial projection in a marriage. This is then between the health department, health care providers and the country from year to year, individually, case by case. The second statement she served with, Madam Secretary of State, is that this budget guard could put public finances at risk. Madam Secretary of State, your government would like to adopt a tax reform that would enable the social state, including the pension fund, including the health treasury, to take 1 billion euros a year and turn it into the pockets of the 15 thousand richest people in this country. You will talk about jeopardising public finances, forgive me; we are not talking about endangering public finances, as you say, but we are talking about political priorities. Your priority is to give money to private people, make the rich even richer at the expense of people. The priority for us socialists in Levica is that the budget will find funding to cover the needs for the treatment of citizens and citizens. Similarly, not only for tax reform but also for long-term care, the government of Janez Janša has sent the Long-Term Care Act to the procedure without even presenting where it will close this long-term supply on the income side. But that's okay, and that's where the marriage went forward? Actually, I shouldn't be there. For this budget funding of the health treasury, I have said why it does not contain projections. Long-term care should contain these projections, but the government has decided to go with the cheap pear rather than to help the pensioners and the need for their care. If I continue with the position of New Slovenia, somehow we could have heard that we would give unlimited money from the state budget. I can say that I just want the Slovenian budget to have unlimited money and the Slovenian policy as a priority to turn this unlimited money into a concern for the health of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, this is not the reality that we have in Slovenian politics, nor is it the reality that if we give money, there is no guarantee that there will be care. As I have already pointed out, this is money that goes through the medical cash register to hospitals if they have capacity, spatial, human resources, material, in cases where these capacities can be mobilised, but there is no financial contribution to cover them. We certainly don't talk about unlimited money here, we certainly don't talk about not being a guarantor. If there is no guarantee, then it is a national call to shorten the waiting period, which is in fact just an instrument of the government, with which it wants the public resources of all citizens and citizens to load into the private pockets of various espionage where some doctors are working on contracts this afternoon instead of doing their morning work properly, for which they are fully employed in a public hospital. Also, Nova Slovenija has just opened up the issue of corruption risks if we are not to touch it. Of course, that's not the substance of this marriage. The issue of corruption risks is resolved, for example, in the area of medical supplies, in a way that creates a public agency that directly buys materials from producers, thus cutting intermediaries, corruption risks are reduced, costs fall drastically. In this way also some Scandinavian countries have settled matters, but of course this is something that New Slovenia strongly opposes. Do you know where New Slovenia doesn't see corruption risks? Where they actually exist and are far the highest in arms business. There are no commissions cut as regularly as high as in weapons deals, and this government of Janez Janša, Minister of Tonin of New Slovenia, has not stopped him from throwing 780 million euros for weapons and writing it into law. Money for health care, and here things stop as soon as it comes to public good, and not just for some cover that finances privileged and private interests in Slovenian health. [[…]] From this point of view, the point of view of Desus is also an interesting one, where their representative said that if we put money into health care, then we have to take it somewhere. Yeah, it's true, that's why we have taxes. But you spend that money in the tax budget to buy weapons, instead of ensuring that people have the right to adequate health care as human rights, when and when they need it. If I continue with the SNS, I will stay here very briefly, in their statement that we have not come up with such proposals, i.e. with an initiative for a health-care budget guard. That's not true, that's a lie, black on white. However, their Members are obviously doing worse in their work, no matter how well they are paid for it, that they do not know. We have proposed this several times, including in the context of the abolition of supplementary health insurance. The national party has also said something in the sense that we do not expect people to be obliged to just give us money, we are only for rights. Hey, yesterday we considered the introduction of responsible health care providers in private health practices as some responsibility that health care professionals have to demonstrate in the form of appropriate work experience, licenses, impunity and so on, where, under these conditions, responsible operators of the ruling coalition have cut the most important, these are work experience. We have proposed that this should not be done to maintain the same level of responsibility and obligations as it has already entered into the law, but that Nova Slovenija was against it. So much for their talk of commitment. To the conclusion. The Slovenian Democratic Party said that the money for health care is sufficient, but it should only be properly distributed. This could even be agreed by half if we did not know that the Slovenian Democratic Party opposes the abolition of supplementary health insurance and is the political best friend of commercial health insurance companies who cut 50 million euros each year on the basis of the payment of insurance to supplementary health insurance. In the crisis, however, they held back some EUR 152 million of the money that people put into supplementary insurance, paying the bills in anticipation of health care that they never received. But their money literally seized these commercial insurance companies. And, of course, the SDS in this area does not want to act. As the proper distribution of SDS money presents itself, we can also see it in the area of additives. There was a lot of money for the supplements, unfortunately, the doctor's proletariat, the paramedics, the chefs, the nurses didn't see much. Some privileged doctors who already have such high wages – not all doctors to understand each other, only those who have seen him more than enough, have watched covid patients only on TV and not actually in the workplace. The largest recorder among these doctors cut out 8,000 euro covid supplement. A server in the home of elderly citizens received a fight of €35, even though she was slobbering among the infected. This is a suitable allocation of money for SDS. However, when we talk about the need for money to be channelled into the public health system, to protect and cover healthcare and additional interventions in public health, then the SDS suddenly stifles about how much money is actually sufficient, it is only necessary to allocate it differently. How did they show it to themselves? They put private interests first, we put citizens and citizens first in Levica. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Get Jože Lenart ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm going to be extremely brief, because I don't have enough time at my disposal, but no matter what. I often think and understand, and I am increasingly convinced that it is also right that we are inside from the centre to the left of a different party. Right, if we weren't Sab Socialists and we were Lefty Socialists. We are not socialists, we are social liberals, and therefore we are also different and certain aspects, in certain things that we have, we see different. But it is not said that it is ours, or yours, or both: or it is both of them that are in vain. And that's what sometimes needs to be understood, because it's water on the mill for those who rule now. What you were saying, Miha, my colleague, earlier, and you mentioned that extra health insurance again, it's a fucked-up thing. It's not really what you were saying. I'm sorry if I said that because we know why it fell. There was a system law that would regulate this matter here, and you wanted a marriage that couldn't drink water at the time, and it was a 250-million-dollar hole. That was the only problem. Not that we were not against it, we were absolutely not against it, but we were against the system set up in this law. If we are to resolve these matters, we need to think about them in a different way. Don't always spit on capital. Without capital in Slovenia, we wouldn't have social security either. The Constitution states that we are a social state, which is also our goal, including our parties, to remain a social state to remain. But this social state that we have right now also needs to be understood that it is not a bottomless bag. We don't have oil, we don't have oil. And waiting for the budget to pay everything and always, it doesn't go, it doesn't go for a simple reason, because it's so big and it goes so far out. It is said that it is necessary to charge from another place, because that is logical. And what will we fill, in what way? Because it protestes in one particular direction in one particular way, because it is one protest in fact, it is not a law, it is one protest, we protest because we demand because we want to. One proposal must be made. Yeah, we give mandatory health insurance back with the little ones, but where are we gonna get that money? We have to take one. When this government is over, we'll meet up with some huge hole, we know that, huge. And the biggest problem will be how we will maintain this hole, maintaining this minus that will arise. Will we be able to finance all that went out and what they were lifting, what they were putting all these raises at all ends and places? That's real. I often ask myself, I am the only Member – entrepreneur, employer here, the only one. No Member here is an employer. They're independent entrepreneurs, they live, they have their activities, there's a few inside. An employer who understands what the problem is. The basic health insurance shall be paid by the employer. The one who can't pay I was the mayor and I had a list of CSDs, the one who couldn't pay was paid by the municipality. [[…]] And what are we making up here now?Oh, my God! What a security guard we can't even evaluate this guard right now, because that was our problem. If we knew that this would cost the country 50 million a year, we'd say, well, okay, we'll see how. But you didn't put that in there, and there's no security guard here, no evaluation, we don't know what that's gonna be. There's something here that needs to be understood. Don't blame us for not blaming us now because there was no supplementary health insurance. I can't take it anymore. I'm not gonna let that happen again. We'll probably reintroduce the law and drink water probably, otherwise, if it does, I don't know what it will be, because we can't know what's going on. In health insurance, the biggest problem is the proper allocation of resources, only that which is unlikely to work is not working. And I have not seen even now in this suit, which are here for a year, dealing with the pandemic and what needs to be done, but I have not seen concrete proposals to fix this system. I haven't seen it, and I'm waiting for it. And that's what I've always been waiting for. Patch a hole in the economy, recover funds, rescue programs. They're gone. This is what I have been waiting for from the right hand, who have boasted so much in all ways that they are able to correct and do all things; how incompetent we are. I haven't gotten any suggestions yet on the table, smart, concrete. Just how far out he goes. And we're gonna have to maintain that, my friend Kordish, we're gonna have to maintain it, so we're gonna have to keep an eye on how big this little one is. That's why. And that's why we're skeptical here, and that's why we can't support it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you. Very quickly, because I do not think that colleague Bandelli is the one we are in a crucial conflict with today, but the following must be highlighted. Firstly, the proposal to abolish supplementary health insurance, as prepared by Levica, was in technical terms coordinated with the Ministry of Health, the Health Treasury and the Ministry of Finance. This was a technical proposal, which was selected, which was fully water-drinking and was a tail at a level or a tail over the level, as usually comes into the procedure of opposition proposals. By quality, he even exceeded a number of government laws. What we're going to do, what we're going to do, what's unfinished, what's up, what's not true. We coordinated there in front of the cameras and behind closed doors for months and months. Don't hold it. Equally, it is not clear that our proposal to abolish supplementary health insurance would make EUR 250 million a hole. This cannot be true if we have transferred the funds currently seized by commercial health insurance companies to the public health treasury. The hole was significantly smaller and we can not really talk about the hole here, but about the fact that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia contributes to the health treasury in the same way or the same way as we are now trying to enter into legislation with the budget guard of the public health department. And it is not a problem that the budget will contribute to, more and more of this in the future, because our public health sector has been drastically fed, underfunded for decades. In my position, I told you - 5.9% of the GDP of public funds goes into the health system, compared with the more developed countries of the European Union, where this number is 7.2%. You don't want us to want to take care of people's health in this country. Pika, it's over. Where does the state budget come from, that's another thing. This is where the game taxes come in. And instead of fair taxation, we have ideas that taxes for the richest, who already have enough, and for capital, are constantly falling. Before we even got the government of Janez Janša, the previous two governments, Cerarjev and Sarčev, with tax burdens, tax exemptions for the rich social budget of the country robbed 300 million euros a year. There have been several different actions, a number of different political moves, but the total budget outflows due to these taxation of rich people have been 300 million euros a year. Yes, money is if the state reaches out to its redistributive mechanisms, and it has to cut and so the funds collected focus on the common benefit. And certainly, human health and public health funding work, if not in the first place, when we talk about the common interests and needs of people in this country. And for closure. We cannot include budget projections in such a law because it is a matter of medical bills, hospitals and budget holders to sit down and identify where the facilities are. And the country attracts co-financing to use these free capacities to shorten waiting types to make patients first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President, for the last six minutes available to me for this agenda item. In particular, we are devoting it to the Government, the distinguished Secretary of State, to point out the following, which is not the first time in this National Assembly that I am speaking as a member of such past governments, and I hope that in any future, if voters so wish, I will follow this agenda Once again, Slovenia is committed to health around 8% of GDP. Austria 10%, Germany even 11%, of course with more than once more nominal GDP. This, of course, will cause us to raise €2,000 for health care in Slovenia and €4,000 in Austria. Of this half we devote to the salaries, to the healthcare staff, which, of course, in Austria, Germany amounts to 2 000 euros, because there are once higher salaries and more, and we have a thousand euros. In Germany, Austria is left with 2 000 euros then for medicines, equipment and, of course, investments in health care. In Slovenia, however, only a thousand euros remain. And now let's imagine how Slovenian health care for these thousands of euros should ensure the comparable standard they have in Austria in Germany. Do we ever wonder? Sometimes, when so many criticisms and anger is poured through our health care, we must be aware that this system can still work, we can thank the commitment and warmth of the health teams within the health public system, which, anyway, of course, goes through stitches, with 80 per cent write-offs of equipment, investments. It is therefore unclear to me why the current government, through measures and resolution policy, favours the involvement of private health workers, rather than vitalising the existing health system, in order to seek, within this system, those capacities that are not well exploited. And I say that they are not, as I have repeatedly reminded in these two cases alone. It is not clear to me that for one ultrasound in Kranj's healthcare home for two years we cannot bring a doctor from Serbia who is anxious to come here with such a lack of staff. And it is not clear to me that, for example, the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec, which has an outdated gamma camera that is virtually no longer usable, cannot provide those two million to prevent these patients from being sent to other public institutions in Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana and there increasing waiting types. Not to mention the costs that patients have when they have to go so far and waste time and even sometimes miss treatment. I can't understand that. That's the network we don't know how to set up. As a financial analyst, an economist who has worked for four decades in the economy, even in a public economy, for a short time, and also for a short time, I was at the Ministry of Finance as a tax inspector, by the way, and therefore I hope that we must not repeat the error that the economy has been making during the transition of privatisation. We know what happened at the time, that within these companies they privatized certain departments, certain activities and thus weakened the parent company, then charged these services to the company. Of course, the parent company could not survive in view of the fixed costs that remained. And understand that a very similar picture is now being taken in this medicine. Public health is failing because we include private doctors, private practice. Why? Because they mostly don't work on equipment from these hospitals, public institutions, but then they have their equipment. Remember, down the halls of hospitals, they're now cruising what's going on because they're talking about how they're going to privatize everything in a big part. And those who remain in public health care will suffer even more if I use that term, and they fear it because they see that the system is falling apart. Certain departments have virtually no idea how they're going to work. And at the end of the loss of this hospital will increase. And who will cover them in future governments? The losses will be due to fixed costs, believe me. And finally, let me say from practice one more point of view to support this. For a systematic medical examination to which the National Assembly sent me a few months ago, of course, to a private infirmary, whether it was a concession or whatever, it doesn't matter, but the problem is that — six hearings were, one of these hearings, by the way, also took place in the Serbian language, which is unacceptable to me. They wanted to do further investigations because they didn't understand the power of my sports heart, so I lost one of the other six investigations. And I said, "Why can't we do you?" But they said, "Yes, if you bring an extra order or a freebie. I figured out what that means. Look, we're going this way. This is the case I wanted to tell you. Here, along this path will continue our health care if we do not know how to rationalize within the system and strengthen it and keep it, which the world also admits to us that it is not bad. Prepare your pockets, respected colleagues and colleagues [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We've been talking and looking for common solutions for many years. I have to say that for about seven years I have been listening to this story, how we will systematically change the Health and Health Insurance Act, and unfortunately not succeed. And even when I heard the position of the Secretary of State or the Ministry of Health today, when all this bill does not take into account that it endangers public finances, it is not in line with the fiscal rule, the framework, it will be necessary to reduce social transfers, I am really asking myself and I am slowly losing energy where this is all going. At the Ministry, we will have to say bob beans once and somehow prepare legislation, bring it to the National Assembly, which we will begin to discuss thoroughly. And do not make such laws in the last year of the mandate, as systemic solutions must be sought with the widest possible consensus. If I sum it up or take it all together, time is running out. And the epidemic that we have witnessed or are still witnessing has shown that the current system is not the most effective. In doing so, it should be stressed that the public health system has proved to be the sole provider of quality services and has been successful in treating the consequences of the epidemic at that time. The Secretary of State also said that, with all the measures that had been taken so far, 50 million had been placed in the health register in 2020, in 2021, as much as 200 million. But why could it be? It was, as she said, paid for patients from the first day of absence, for the exemption of contributions to self-employed persons, for vaccination, for the transport of covid patients, medicines, vaccinations and a number of other things. Yeah, that's what it was about. Because, in fact, if we were to go through the medical bills with it, I don't know where this whole thing would come from. At the time of the epidemic, there was also a decrease in the number of employees. As a result, the health system has received less funding from healthcare contributions, because this health system we now have is largely based on contributions that depend on the economy and, of course, on the number of employees. Regardless of the increase in the number of employees, the question is whether all of this will last, as more unemployment means less money in the healthcare system. Unfortunately, we're no less sick. That's the biggest problem. During this time, the crown of the crisis showed and extended the waiting types, of course due to the lack of access to both the premier, the secondary and the tertiary. We're gonna have to sort this out. Hospital absences, which we talked about last night, are also a burden of the institution, and even hospital absences are an impact, because waiting species are immensely long, some waiting for individual services for a long time. I hope that this intervention national call for the reduction of waiting lines will deliver results, and I hope that as soon as possible. Of course, I absolutely agree that today we have a proposal for a law that is not systematic, is partial, it solves part of the problem, but it solves at least part of the problems we are facing. Because we need to be aware of what my colleague has already said before me that Slovenia is extremely short of the budget for health care. It is estimated that we are at the bottom and the Social Democrats are committed to raising this share to at least 9% of gross domestic product. I also believe that the proposed novel fills in the absence of a budget protector created during the crown of the crisis. The Health Insurance Office has clearly shown that it cannot cover all expenditure incurred. That's also what we were informed of. 6. when they made it clear and clear that it is easy to show a significant loss of revenue from contributions in the light of the planned revenues from 2020, which is 190 million compared to 2019, which we can honestly worry about. We have only this health system, which is essentially based on these contributions and the share of the remaining funding, but we have a pension allowance covered by the state budget, which is also correct, because there is not enough money in the pension register and the state budget must cover the loss of the PPIZ. And then you are asked why it is not self-evident to talk about such coverage of losses in the field of medical bills; especially because we need medical bills for all — children, adults, pensioners, all. And even if we look back on statistics, Slovenia is one of the countries in the European Union where this population ageing expenditure will increase most by 2060. And we will have to look for a solution, we cannot let go, and this bill is a step in the right direction. Today's system is set up to reflect financial pressures through the distortion of rights and the reduction of the percentage of coverage from compulsory health insurance. I must say that I do not want to see the cuts in health services, and I strongly oppose it, because I think that we are already paying too much now, for the first time, with the extra health insurance, but if you have any more resources, you are also doing things through these private institutions and paying for individual services yourself. And these are huge costs for an individual, but many cannot do so absolutely; and any violation of compulsory health insurance rights is unacceptable. As I have already mentioned, by means of supplementary health insurance, even at the time of the crown of the crisis, it has been shown that we have all paid, most at least, this supplementary health insurance; and I hope that it will indeed be as planned that these funds will be communicated and transferred to the national call for reduction of waiting lines, that people will arrive in time for services, that they will not die in waiting lines, which is very ugly to hear, but so it is. And even at the time of the crown crisis, when the cure is merely a disease of the crown of crisis, it was that people were dying; not because of the crown, but because of other diseases. And that's a worrisome thing to worry about. When you hear from the Health Insurance Office that the financial framework is going to have to be adjusted and the services reduced, I really don't think it's right. I think the choice against politics is quite simple. We need to ensure the financial stability of the public health system. If we do not agree to this, we will come to this reduction of rights or even the transfer of these additional services to supplementary health insurance, which is not a small amount for an individual who has only a minimum pension or much less, because we know how many of these pensioners there are and how many people who have a minimum wage. These are not small amounts, so the public health system needs to be protected and further financed directly from the budget. And if anything, we should really put resources from the state budget for health care, because health is our greatest value. Without it, nothing helps us, for if there is no health, neither are we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Alenka Forte has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Thank you Members for all the debate, I have listened carefully, and I will remember everything. At the same time, I would point out that the current government's mandate has not yet been completed for one year and for four months; a year and four months is to be determined. At that time, we faced the biggest crisis the whole world has actually experienced, i.e. the covida-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, to the Ministry of Health, despite the management of this great crisis, we have taken measures that will address much of what you have highlighted today. Some measures are already covered by the general agreement for 2021. In the parliamentary procedure, we had a recent law on intervention measures for health care, and I highlighted it, and unfortunately the Members abused it somehow because I predicted that we were aware and that we were beginning to address the issue of Slovenian health. And we have done so by paying special attention to the most deficient healthcare professions and providing incentives for specialisation in family medicine, clinical psychology and also introducing a scholarship scheme for health professions for the next 10 years. We are aware of the severe deficit and depreciation of equipment in all our public institutions. When I remember going to med school and entering UKC Ljubljana; and if I go to these places today, the situation hasn't changed since. Patients still do not have the basic sanitation that should be in the 21st century. We still have hospitals with group sanitation, so we haven't really raised the standard in the last 30 years, not even in hospitals, but even less in nursing homes. This is why a new Slovenian Health Investment Act of 1.9 billion funds is announced and we will address practical segments of health care, from primary health care, to the highest institutions to research institutions. It's just, I mean, the real answer to the swollen state. We all agree that, in fact, Slovenian health care has not undergone any serious renovation since 1992 when it was established, including the insurance system. Here I agree with everyone that we need the widest debate and approach this and that Slovenian health will be effective, fair to those who work to remain public, solidarity. We will always defend this. There is also the Long-Terms Act in Parliamentary Procedure. It has experienced its 100th and I do not know which renovation and is still in the parliamentary procedure today. And whoever has read this law carefully, the government is aware of this flaw, which has not been addressed through the budget so far, and has also reserved or provides for substantial financial resources from the state budget in investments or in fulfilling citizens' obligations and rights to long-term care. I have to make another minor correction to implementation. Of course, there was a stalemate in health services. If I focus only on the Oncology Institute, in fact, the Oncology Institute in these preventive programmes in 2020 saw a significant decline in diagnostics and operational interventions within two months. But according to the management of the Oncology Institute, this was completely replaced by the end of August. Today, a narrow throat is, of course, the number of operating halls, the number of personnel working in the field of oncology. However, it is a programme where there are no waiting periods in this respect. So narrow throats are only human resources and spatial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you. Since the arguments presented by the Secretary of State at the time of the presentation of the position do not drink water and I have dismantled them according to the points and showed how I think that public health insurance should be covered by budgetary funding, I would expect it to respond to my implementation, arguments, numbers and everything else and defend a position that I think has become unsustainable in the light of the arguments; not that it deals with everything else. However, if we want to talk about general investments in health care, in which we need to think, it is true, including budget co-financing for healthcare, then let us say: for investments in the spatial capacities of Slovenian hospitals, UKCs and so on we do not need a specific law, it would be welcome to consider, I am very open to this, but it is not necessary. What is essential are projects and budget lines. With the former Minister of Health in the government, Janez Janša, Mr Gantar, he wanted to invest in an infection clinic worth 100 million euros, but we were in the middle of an epidemic. At the same time, he said that this money, 100 million euros, would be very difficult to find in the middle of the epidemic. So much for your honesty as Janez Janša's government is actually willing to invest in public, solidarity, basic spatial capacity. This investment would not require a special law that you are now predicting. In general, we are discussing the financing of material and health services through budgetary co-financing of the treasury, not even of long-term care on its own. When I talked about long-term care, I compared this with these solutions in the law, especially in the work where the long-term care, as Janez Janša's government sent to the parliamentary procedure, does not have its revenue side closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Alenka Forte has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Perhaps I would just add that at the Ministry of Health we know clearly that the biggest problem is actually Slovenian personnel in health. That is why we are doing analyses and preparing a starting point for a national strategy on healthcare personnel planning. I hope that we will be able to present this resolution to this high assembly, and we will be able to complete it with our partners, because it includes not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Get Andrei Chernigoy ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me remind you that yesterday, on your right hand, when you passed the Law on Infectious Diseases, which increases repression, you often said that health is the first human right. Today we're listening to a bunch of really weird excuses. The fact that we now collect hot bones from cranes is, of course, connected to money. In arms and health care is the most money, and above all commission. And we know who in this government advocates and controls it. The following is the fact that the government of Marjana Sarca has fallen, and as you will talk about guns in maize, the abolition of supplementary health insurance has fallen. Let me remind you how the lobbyists were giving each other hooks and what an invasion there were exactly lobbyists here, who are too closely linked to the leadership of certain right parties. However, I do not agree with my colleague Bandelli, and I will only touch him quickly so that the budget cannot finance everything. Yes, it cannot finance everything, but public health must finance the budget, because human health, as you say, is the first human right, although human rights are not ranked to be understood. But human health can't possibly be a business, but it's a constitutional right, it's part of a solidarity scheme. Whether you are old, young, rich, poor, you must have the right to equal, equal health care. And that's what we've been defending in Levica all along. And, of course, I agree with Mr Fakin, who says that the money in health care is enough, but that it needs to be distributed properly. And here, you see, there's a rabbit in this bush. Of course public health is important and we also have two university clinical centres in Maribor and Ljubljana. The training of doctors takes place there. And everyone, including the private, was educated there for free, at the university clinical centre and at colleges, they got knowledge, they got practice, they got first jobs in the public sector, they got good wages. Of course, the pension fund and the public sector are full of hospital benefits and it is totally unacceptable for them to redirect their doctors to their private clinics in their free time. You see, this is happening to us, and that's why they're waiting species. The burden allowances at the time of the epidemic have also been shared, and let's ask ourselves how fair they are. First of all, it cost medical personnel, nurses, who are now mass leaving because they simply can't do it anymore. However, too many doctors who have not even met any infected patients have been treated. The problem with this government is that it wants to destroy all social and solidarity gains. All solidarity schemes, public well-being, care for the weakest, on behalf of the all-savvy religion of the market, endless growth in the profits of individuals at the expense of citizens who simply cannot do it anymore. And when a colleague mentioned 100 million earlier, the infectious clinic that we needed bloodyly during the epidemic, and people wouldn't die in nursing homes where they would get 100 million. In 2019, insurance companies carrying out supplementary health insurance received EUR 612 million from us and paid 514 to hospitals. Last year, they raised 655 million, paid only 503 million to the health system and left 152 million on the way to the health system. Would you build an infection clinic for this money? Of course I would. For insurance companies at the time of the epidemic – we know that it was all stopped and that operations, other treatments and so on were cancelled – for insurance companies this was not a time of epidemic and crisis, but a wonderful year of business opportunities. And they also took advantage of these business opportunities. During this time Triglav and Sava Re bought several centres, they specialize in diagnostics and outpatient treatment. They bought the Diagnostic Center Vila Bogatin, MTC Fontana, Aristotle Health Center in Krske, Cardial Medical Center in Ljubljana, I think they already bought the Pink Valley Surgical Sanitary and so on. With our money that should go to people's health. And on the other hand, we are now hearing about the collapse of a basket of compulsory health insurance rights, which is totally unacceptable. Therefore, it is indeed necessary to recapitalise health and social welfare institutions, to employ all additional staff in public institutions, to budget the ZZS, to abolish supplementary health insurance and to allow health rights to be infringed in no way. As early as April 2020, we in Levika requested the government to freeze the payment of supplementary health insurance premiums for the duration of the epidemic and that the government call on these commercial insurance companies to use these collected premiums to ensure the liquidity of public health institutions, but of course they refused our initiative. They'll say again – yes, where we'll take it. However, the CAP has enacted a national tender through which 60 million of the premiums collected will be diverted from insurance companies to private health operators that may, as previously mentioned, be owned by these. the same insurance companies. Horrible, absurd, dangerous. And you know, in the public health system, family doctors are grumpy if they send too many patients to specialists because the insurance companies are squandering at them. It is totally unacceptable and we are facing the collapse of the system and the privatisation of everything public, but it will not work, because we have seen that only public health can solve such crisis situations as we have witnessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for your floor. This debate goes on in such a way that I had to look at the title of this point, this point is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. I thought I was in another session, but let me start a little bit wider than my predecessors. We have been mentioned several times, and I think I may return a word, especially to my colleague Kordiš. Citizens can be happy that we are so brutally different. Why am I saying this? You said a lot, a little bit. If I'm not mistaken now, you're already the second term in the National Assembly and in the previous government you've been a supercoalyst party. You had the opportunity to take over, why not, from the Ministry of Health and the adoption of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which you are proposing and putting on the table today. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do it? I may – and so do most citizens know this and, of course, they also realize that from theirs, your rhetoric cannot live and could not do so. And I believe, I believe that if you don't have any arguments, not least the military will come in handy. But here I would like to say that the current government is investing in all sub-systems and somehow defending them and trying. Yes, we are not against the Slovenian Army, but some others are on this side. We're investing in social services. You told us not to build houses. We started them. After ten years of schooling, the new invitation came, the construction of kindergartens and primary schools is in progress or will begin. And in health care we have prepared a plan of the Law on the provision of funds for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031. We have a vision, and that's what we're gonna do. And in this vision we will build, we will spend almost €2 billion in these years on the University Clinical Center Ljubljana, general hospitals, nursing hospitals, specialist hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, maternity centres, primary health activities, the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the National Institute, higher education institutions and more. You could have done all this in the previous government if you had a minister of health. Are you? You're not. You're not. Let's do it in one order at a time. People pay in cash and therefore somehow expect them to come in at some reasonable time. This week, a nose operation has been mentioned several times, not a beautiful surgery that this person has been waiting for more than a decade to come. One of them tells us we're going to drown money in 15 people's pockets. I don't understand. But I can identify myself with a story from the past, when some have actually sunk into the pockets of fifteen people, especially at Factor Bank and Probank. Maybe you can identify with them, maybe draw inspiration from them, judge for yourself. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we work for all people, with us human dignity comes first. We value freedom, security, and justice very much. And I know a system that in the past, which you so sing, took care of only its own; and it was a time of socialism. But we also rejected that time 30 years ago. Perhaps there is more to the comparison of public health to the regulated economy. Colleague Lenart, with whom we have very similar views in the field of Slovenian wood and what should be done with it, could only be such a purely youthful observation that the regulated economy governs the free market. I hope we agree here. The regulated health care is paid from the public treasury, from the health treasury and some from all of us who pay basic and additional health insurance each month. In this place scare people with privatisation and at this point apply the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and scaring people with privatisation is not in place because these two matters are not the same. Thank you very much for your attention. I'll take some more time, maybe for a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you. Very fast. When the forerunner from Nova Slovenije started talking, he had 6 minutes, then they came for 4 minutes and 38 seconds, all the while he was talking about Levika, not about the Slovenian health system. Then he continued something about the Slovenian Army with some Flossules on social and health care, and then he touched on the investments that, if at all, are waiting for us under the government of Janez Janša as the fruit of a special law. Ladies and gentlemen, an infectious clinic in the middle of an epidemic, an emergency investment of 100 million euros. Tomaž Gantar, former Minister of Health, without any special love for him, wanted to secure this money, and told the media publicly that it would be very difficult to do so, just because of government priorities such as these. These priorities, however, say that health care needs to be cut down and privatized instead of investing in public goods and public hospitals. After all, waiting periods are the result of decommissioning privatisation in the public health system. The only way to reverse this is to invest properly in the public health system, so in Levica today we are proposing this one thing that Mr Chernigoj has not talked about, which is a budget protector for co-financing the health treasury, because he says that if we have free capacities, premises, staff, materials and so on in public hospitals, we could help patients, except that there is no money to contribute to allow the state to finance it. It's very simple. Public health should be a priority. The budget protector goes in this direction, as does the pension payer, so that the deficit can be financed from the budget and the pension can always come to the TRR pensioners, whether or not there is a crisis in the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The replica's from Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. I think that we have been misinterpreted here or I was misunderstood that New Slovenia has already proved in the past that it has done a great deal and has done so, and will do so in the future. Unfortunately, on the other hand, we have some people who talk a lot, but they don't show anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Let's get Gobbler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Andre Montenegro. You are one of the few on the right-hand side who knows that we have been in socialism and not in communism before independent Slovenia. I appreciate that, I hope you will not receive any harsh treatment from your political thinkers. But the fact is, what you missed was the following. In socialism, the health system has been properly regulated, and many have been exemplary. And people felt that when they needed a doctor, they also had difficult surgeries. And second of all, she felt some equality I wanted so badly. So the problem is that we haven't been able to upgrade and improve all these gains of socialism, but we've been trying to break them down for the last 30 years. At the same time, the Slovenian health system at many points is still good or very good and also very competitive compared to others. And I don't want him spitting on the medical system all the time, on doctors and doctors, on medical staff, on health staff, on nurses, on technicians and the like. But the problem is next. The first problem with which today's law is being introduced is that we also fund relatively little in the Slovenian health system in relative and absolute terms. That's what all the numbers are talking about, it's not an ideological debate that we left and right believe or not. We're funding a little bit. At the same time, there is another fact that the State is, in fact, minimally financed compared to those countries which would like to be similar to them. If you finance little and little, then expect it to be a long-term top-notch service, it's just not going to work. For some time, good practices from the past, including purchased equipment from the past, have shown that after thirty years it is no longer possible to do so. So we're underfunded. What I have to say is why we are so observing public funding and why we have so many concerns about insurance companies on this side. Just look at the answers to my parliamentary questions, which I was asking, where is the money, because there was a lot of money coming together last year, and the service was much less financed by private health insurance companies. Then, thank God, I discovered these 62 million deposited on reservations; I hope that this will be fully exploited. But there's another thing. If you look at the answers to the questions - they are very correct answers and I have to thank the Minister for Finance here - what they reveal. They reveal that if it collects the state health insurance money and then sends it to health care for its operation, management and everything else it does, it only needs 1.3%. If I miss a pass, please forgive me. So he has very little of these overheads and so on. A large majority of the money goes back to health care and everything else that money's raised for. But when they collect private health insurance companies, because I don't mind the profits, because the profits they show are not that big, and 10 or 16 million, and the country, if rational, collects a profit tax. The problem is that incredibly large numbers are used for their own operation. And we're not talking about 1%, we're talking about more than 8% of the money that should go to health, but it's not about health. That is why our joint proposal was – and this was also one of the reasons, and I agree with Miha – that the previous coalition is likely to break down because the impact on individual parts of the political space of those who want to keep private insurance companies is so great. And I'm not disturbed by a private insurance company where people are insured for some additional services, but the complementary health insurance is basically, if we admit it or not, a simple form of compulsory. Everyone has to be insured, because if he doesn't and if he gets a serious disease, he just can't finance it. And so this is kind of a mandatory form. I don't know what happened in the past, except that at the time the money was already running out in general, i.e. in the public cash register. And because they were not willing to contribute, they introduced this unfortunate form of complementary, which is a compulsory form. So if we can solve this; although not because it has a different ideological sign and would like to put everything on private terms, it forgets that then 8% of the money collected will be spent on management and that their legitimate goal is profit. Another thing I want to say. I am the first to realize that the greatest enemy of public health is public health itself. We all know that. The same as the biggest enemy of public education is public education itself. If public health were to work very effectively, brilliantly, and there were no such and different deviations, the general public, which ultimately decides everything, would be a great supporter of public health as well as of public education. With every affair, with every anomaly that is not resolved, support for public health is declining, and the problem is that those who then no longer support it do not know, let's say, what Americanization of health means because they have no experience in it. But when you get to the Americanization of health care, there's no going back. I would strongly like to see more done in making public health more effective. I know you like to read on the right side – because you've been in power all along. By the way, I've been in politics since May 2010 and this side hasn't always been in power, and the other side has been in power. Let's stop this. But the fact is that the last serious attempt, but in those governments where I was, I asked them to do it all the time, was Minister Borut Pahorje’s Minister, Mr Dorijan Marušič, but he was not in charge of the Institutes Act, was the competent Mrs Irma Krebs Pavlinič – I hope that I correctly pronounced both names – who was able to make a change of the Law on Institutions, so that the management of institutions, including health institutions and not only health institutions, would become more effective and that citizens and citizens would once again be proud of the functioning of Slovenian hospitals, universities and everything else that this law regulates. That law was largely harmonised, and apparently there were also strong lobbyist pressures that it had never been adopted. Milojka Kolar, who was the next health minister to whom I could talk, had a desire, but she did not realize it because she saw that there was no general desire for this marriage to go forward in order to make it for health care. If I could do that, I'd do a lot. If we want to, I think there must be a common desire for public health to be strengthened, we should make it more effective. So this law to pull out of the drawer, to look at what is good, to look at what is not good, because even such things are at that time, we certainly have come so far, and then to enable public health institutions to lead more effectively. What definitely bothers me and I don't understand, but it's next. When we finance the part of public health that is not concessionaries, by the way, although I am on the left, I do not have a negative call to concessionaires. I know a lot of people, I just took advantage of the opportunity that it was, and I have to say that as far as I know individual concessionaires, but I don't know them enough, but I just have to say this, I see only numbers, I find that they are extremely effective, to say, in some unit of time, whether it's one week, one day, but I still don't understand how it's possible, because people are people, they do more than in public health, in, like, state hospitals, I can say, because they are funded by the state. And there are the same people, here this morning, there this afternoon. But do you know what that means? This means that, in fact, managing concessionaires is more effective, there are also smaller institutions at the end stage and, of course, you have to do something and enough to do. In state hospitals, however, it depends on its own personal motivation. This is what Mr Only Fakin has learned about the great differences between individual operators, but they are equally paid in truth. But we're not going to do that, and we're going to solve it in a way that essentially means we're going to withdraw money to public health and put it in private health, and we're not going to solve it. This will only make public health a bigger crisis. We need to be aware that we are essentially putting too little money into health care. Point B, I fully agree that, given what I've read, okay, there's mostly political overreaction in Parliament, but I'm there. When you hear some strong accusations, I don't know if they're holding or not when they're flying sometimes, but when you read newspapers, expert opinions, and so on, you find it necessary to arrange public procurement. And that I fully accept the system proposed by the doctors, I think there are eight or nine doctors; I think they are in the group.si. I hope I didn't say it wrong, but it's a great idea. You know what they said? They said, in fact, we take a system of reference prices in some of the countries we value, and the reference prices mean that when we buy medical equipment, material, anything, in fact, should be purchased in hospitals, in homes within these reference prices. Otherwise, they gave another solution. And it wasn't great for me when I read the reasons, and they also published them publicly, and then I saw as soon as I saw that in fact they failed to convince the government administration that this idea was good, I publicly supported them through the written question of the Member State, and I know that then two or three even supported me. On my side there was even a strange question to be heard from — Hey, you are positively mentioned by a doctor who has been hanging out with the right ones all the time. Yeah, well, it really doesn't matter to me whether he's a right doctor or a left doctor, it's important to me that a doctor who works in accordance with his own oath and works well for the benefit of patients, as he has to. And what's interesting, this system that they proposed, and through my eyes is a solution to many things, has not been adopted. I hope that now that we are essentially asking questions, this has also become a public issue that we will change our minds as a policy. If anyone has doctors who have observed all corruption and potential corruption, sometimes it may not even be corruption, but it is mere indiscretion, ignorance of work, probably if someone, they see what they are doing wrong; and if they are willing to help, let us listen to them. But I'm going back to public, to state institutions. I don't understand the system at all – yes, let's go to private contractors, on the fact that state institutions are more imperfect, that they have capacities. Now imagine, even with the state money there are built spaces, purchased tables, operating tables, and I don't know what else expensive appliances are ordered, what they cost over a million euros, are bought. And one would rationally expect that then in these state premises these apparatus were used, I don't know, some of them should also be, say, 80 percent. This in practice means that a regular job, one of my relatives worked at a clinical centre in Germany and told me something very interesting. She said, "You know, we don't have a problem with doctors getting equipment, but if they don't use it, they're exes. What was she going to say? In this clinical centre, I will not speak the name now, because it is not so important when they obtain the apparatus, it is well known that expensive medical examinations for people in hospitals will take place overnight and regular work will take place throughout the morning and afternoon. And when we read in Slovenian hospitals, how expensive appliances are used only if they are, one change, and sometimes not, then it must be against the question of what in these public institutions to do that if we already have expensive appliances, they must be used 60%, 80%. That's what I'd like to talk to you about, and we're not even talking. We only talk about what to do to take the job out of state hospitals and put them in private hands. This is such a wrong path, but people, because they have no experience in Americanizing the system, of course they think because they are dissatisfied with some form of public work – Hey, it will be better in private. It will not, look abroad and let us all do together that the public works, that is to say, state hospitals work as well as effectively as possible, will have to be financed more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Get Luka Moon ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I listened to Mrs State Secretary in particular when she gave us the answers, and I was particularly concerned about what she said about the fact that 30 years ago, when we studied both her and me, to date, in the spatial sense or in the necessary personnel, if there is a need for staff in the public health system, what is happening, nothing has changed that these are critical points to be addressed. I must say that I agree with this, and I hope that I have correctly quoted your words. Although, Madam Secretary of State, I will continue to say, to provide sufficient personnel in the public health system, and as my colleague, Židan, has said that the capacity will be fully operational 24 hours a day if the need for health services is such in our country, more money must be provided to the health system. And money cannot depend solely on contributions but on supplementary health insurance. The source of funding must be stable. Stable then, even if the crisis, if health needs are high, must provide money. Priority, in front of weapons, in front of expensive private insurance companies, against unnecessary tax reforms that will bring a lot of revenue to public finances. As can be seen from the data of the European Commission – beware, the European Commission – and also our NIJS, the money in Slovenian health care is not enough, I would say to Mrs Brinovšek when she said before that the money was enough, only otherwise it should be redistributed. All health-care resources in the proportion of GDP have been falling steadily since 2010, as I said, and the proportion of public resources earmarked for health is also falling. And given the relative growth of GDP, this means that health is being reduced. If we gave 8.6% of GDP in 2010, we give 7.9% today, but the needs are even older. Me, too. In 2010, according to European data in Slovenia, 6.3% of GDP for health and today 5.8%; or 7.9% of the GDP we give to health, 2.1% must be provided from our own pockets, with huge, even the vast majority of people in this country, if not already below the poverty threshold, but slightly above the poverty threshold. Where do these people get the money?Oh, my God! And I would say this, to the need for financial stable financing of health care in Slovenia, we are reminded of this information, especially the need for health of people in Slovenia, this is the first commitment we have to make to save it, the health of people in Slovenia and thus their lives. In particular, the European Commission's Report on the country of Slovenia in 2020, which states that health expenditure is increasing and funding is highly cyclical and falling and is underperforming. Look, the EU is warning us. Slovenian Democratic Party, are you here against the Commission? And I would like to say this: the dependence of the healthcare system on contributions means that the system at the level of funding is extremely cyclical. For a system like health, but there's no cyclicality. There is a need to carry out a medical activity or to find that we have to close the doors for people, and that is probably not what we will do in this Slovenia. That is why I think that this budgetary protector must be supported inside for the sake of the people. And this, Madam Secretary of State, when you said the law would affect fiscal sustainability. However, we will redistribute the funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. There must be a person in the first place and health care must be provided to him. In the anti-Korona measures, the government has always referred in particular to the fact that it has pointed out that we must first respect the right to health, to life. Yeah, so let's make sure the money's available. And that's all I'd say in the end. Unfortunately, Party representative Alenka Bratušek said that such obligations in Slovenia as we now propose in Levica – but this is proposed by the profession, proposed by everyone who is minimally aware of the financial situation in health – said we cannot afford this in Slovenia. I'll ask him, with all due respect. What is the alternative of not being able to afford it, not being enough money for public health to make it inaccessible for it to just fall apart? Is he aware of the consequences? That is why I think that we should support the proposal today in this National Assembly that the healthcare system in Slovenia be funded in a stable manner. And this is that the budget guard is in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Alenka Forte has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you. On the occasion of the debate, I am pleased that you know the data from European countries, that you know the OECD report from the European Commission; and I hope that you have read it completely. I hope this is also a basis for your broader thinking. We have different health systems, this is within the jurisdiction of the country, but Slovenia would be considered to be modelled on good models, according to European legal practice. I would point out Sweden, the Netherlands, Austria. We have a lot of good models, and given that we haven't moved in 30 years, it would really be worth studying and choosing the best models that Europe has in hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you. Of course, the health system is relatively complex, but once again we don't have to talk about rocket science if we believe that human health is his right, not that it's business, it's first. Secondly, one thing that does not need to be studied, but it needs to be followed, is where the more developed Western countries have a political priority in financing public health. I gave you the information earlier – 5.9% of GDP is the amount of public funds allocated in health care in Slovenia, 7.2% of GDP is the amount of public funds allocated on average to the developed countries of the European Union. We are talking about the percentage of GDP, it is said that it is not a matter of whether a country is poorer or richer, but what priority and what emphasis it places on financing public health. If we want to compare ourselves with the developed ones in this place and if we want to catch up with them, then we should invest in the public health system an additional EUR 500 and 600 million in the budget. There is as much difference in the percentage of GDP between 5.9 and 7.2 as they should. Why is this political establishment not working? Because health care is not his priority. In Levica we would like to turn this trend, put things in place, citizens and citizens to provide quality health care, and from this point of view we also propose a budget protector to finance the public health treasury, which is a payer of material and services in Slovenian health care, that if there is additional space in hospitals, additional machinery and personnel, the contribution to the cash register does not make enough money, then the state should step in and fund the state. And the waiting lines will shrink.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As a last-declared debater, Luka Mesec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'd actually go on just where Željko Cigler finished. In the first place must be man; this is essentially the core of our proposal. Our proposal, although the debate has gone very wide, is essentially one thing, and this is that health should not depend on economic cycles, because the situation is now the next for us. The economic crisis comes, companies forgive or close, people are unemployed, there are fewer paid contributions and because there are fewer paid contributions, the health treasury is narrowed down. And that's why medical checkouts can cover fewer operations, fewer checks than they used to. Health in our country under the system as we know it now depends on the economic cycle. In crises, our health treasury is able to finance less than in the times of the fat cows of economic prosperity. And these two need to be resolved, especially since we know that the crisis is coming. We had covid-19 in 2020, we have covid-19 in 2021, but anyone who can look at publicly available data about what was happening in health care at that time can see that a serious health crisis is just being prepared. In the first half of last year, the Cancer Institute reported that there were significantly fewer cancers detected in 2020 than in the year before, and all numbers are going in this direction. In 2020 – I am speaking only for the first half, not for the second, where things have gotten worse – there were as much as 19% less treatments in the specialist infirmary than one year earlier. There were 13% less hospital treatments than the year before. If you look at the health portal or the NIJS data, you will see that for all diseases there are about 10, 15, 20, and about 25% of the number of checks or treatments fell. We know that health is not a thing that can be fixed on its own. People who have not arrived in time for a checkup will likely return in a few months or a year to a doctor with worse problems than they had a year earlier; and our health care is not ready for that. Therefore, if we want to maintain public health, if we want to keep this health care accessible, it is necessary to allow health care to be covered from the budget in the next period. Money shouldn't be a problem here. The country has used up so far, in 2020 and 2021, about €7 billion to fight the crown of the crisis, and we are now discussing whether we are ready to spread the scrotum in order to keep health care publicly and accessible to all. I think there must be a single answer here. It must be human in the first place. I don't know how we can imagine a country that has written down in its Constitution, that it is social, where we all say that this country is built on mutual solidarity, that we will see how the waiting times are longer for us, that we will see how people will not be able to receive timely checks, hearings, interventions, and that we will say – sorry, but the budget of the additional costs for health will not be met. I think that this must be equally unacceptable for everyone, regardless of political colour. This seems unacceptable at the end of the day also to the Department of Health Insurance, which was the first time that these alarms began to ring, which was last June and we have invested this law for the first time, even publicly supported. They said – we need additional resources because it is clear that the health crisis is coming. People who have not been treated in the last two years or who have not come to the hearing in time will return, and our health care will not have the money to provide them with checks and interventions. I know that money isn't the only health problem. There are, of course, organizational problems and other things that we will have to solve, but money, after all, is kind of a context, within which we also need to understand what our health care can and can't offer. As a colleague from LMŠ has already made it very clear, in Slovenia we collect about 2 000 euros per capita per year for health care, in Austria and Germany they collect once more, 4 000 euros per year for health care, with thousands of euros per salary, thousands of euros for investment, in Austria and Germany going to 2 000 euros per salary, 2,000 for investment; and therefore, of course, they have comparatively, so much better health services for their inhabitants. However, as we say, we must have human beings first, we must have social solidarity first, and we must not afford to wake up in a country where, due to lack of human resources, we will withdraw basic human rights; and that is the right to health. That is why, of course, I will also support the law and appeal to everyone else to reconsider, regardless of the debates and the clear definitions of your positions to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Secretary of State Alenka Forte has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you. A messenger to Mr. Luke Mesca. I only regret that you did not place so often at the centre of the human being and his needs yesterday, fighting for the status of public institutions and not exposing the human being and his needs. Thank you for doing this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. When we say in Levica that a person should be put first in health care, this means that the health care of someone is his right as a human right. Something where you go with a medical card, you don't go there with a bank card, something that institutions do because they have a social mandate to treat; and not that treatment is carried out as a business that someone will earn. When the authorities talk about putting a person in the center, it is only one version of the option that money must follow the patient or that public funds must be converted into private pockets. Of course, the budget guard installed in the health treasury reduces the manoeuvre that the authorities have in place to privatise health care, which is why it also opposes this guardian. Since, in the general agreement, hospitals have the capacity, human resources and spatial capacity, the State is here to mobilise and finance these facilities, this means a budgetary protector. The budget protector also means that the financing of Slovenian health care is significantly lower in the impact of such and other crises of capitalism. The system of financing the health allowance shall be based on the contributions paid. These contributions are, of course, linked to employment, to the number of jobs, to employment contracts, to the level of wages and so on. And what happens when capitalism comes into crisis? The economy is shrinking, the number of jobs is shrinking, and contributions to Slovenian health care are therefore falling. This is precisely at a time when the psychosocial pressures of people are the worst and continue to translate into an even stronger need for health care. It is therefore necessary to provide health care and health care financing in the same way as the pension fund. This is already the area of pensions in Slovenian legislation, we say in Levica that the same good regulation must also be passed on to the health field. No matter how the economy goes, how the capital accumulation is, health care must be financed as a human right, people must not be held hostage to capital and its accumulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. You want a word? No, no, no. Proposer? Yeah. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Final word. The budget protector, the budgetary financing of the public health treasury is not really something that has grown on the grassroots of the Left as some crazy socialist measure, as some people want to paint in today's debate. This is an initiative coming from the Department of Health Insurance itself. The Health Insurance Office, together with hospitals, prepares general arrangements each year to determine which interventions will be carried out, where they will be carried out, how much these matters will cost. Therefore, it also has an approximate review of the needs that exist in our society. And these needs are great. After all, they are noted even by the government coalition, when it wants to shorten waiting types on its neck or at least argument its legal actions in a way that it wants to shorten waiting types. But these waiting types will only be reduced by strengthening the public health system, which means additional investments in the spatial capacities of public hospitals, but also means additional funding for services, materials, personnel and so on. Where does this money come from if not from the state budget? As much as we can collect from contributions, this is a limited number, and it depends on cyclical economic movements. On the other hand, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a much more robust accumulator of our common assets, the only question is where our political priorities are to invest our common, tax-collected resources. The government of Janez Janša says – private health and the purchase of weapons, Levica says – public health and health as human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 9 July 2021, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law supplementing the act on the supplement to the death penalty for work and exceptional achievements in the area of sports, within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 12 Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Dear President! Dear Secretary of State! Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. The Republic of Slovenia establishes a system of awarding top athletes after the end of their active careers, which have contributed significantly to the international reputation and visibility of the country by means of the Act on Pensions for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport. Top athletes, winners of Olympic medals, from world championships are thus entitled to an allowance for old age and invalid pension. The pension consists of a pension as a sum of payments to the pension fund and an allowance. At the time of the adoption of the law in 2017, we particularly welcomed the inclusion of disabled athletes among pensioners in this law. We have stressed that their achievements also make an important contribution to the development of sport, as their achievements in the sport field are enriched by inspiring stories that testify to the fact that, despite obstacles, they can also achieve top-notch results. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a new Law on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport, which eliminates discrimination and unequal treatment of top athletes with disabilities. With the amendment of the law, we propose that the round of beneficiaries of the pension allowance provided for in Article 3, paragraph 1, of the Law extend to top athletes disabled, winners of medals from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports disciplines and winners of medals from the World Deaf Championships. The world championships in the system of sport for disabled persons and non-disabled persons, regardless of the system of organisation of sports industries and associations, are comparable or equivalent to cities. In this case, in his assessment of the discriminatory nature of the law, the Advocate for the principle of equality assessed discrimination against the top athletes of disabled persons. Article 2 of the Anti-Discrimination Act explicitly provides protection against discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances in areas related to social protection, including social security and social benefits. However, the Supreme Court ruled on this issue of unequal treatment of individuals, since the review of the case against the judgement of the Administrative Court ruled that sports achievements of disabled athletes from the World Paralympic Discipline Championships must also be taken into account in the decision to add to the pension for disabled top athletes. With the adoption of the proposed novel, we will clearly write down the legal provision that disabled athletes who have received a medal from the World Paralympic Discipline Championships from the World Deaf Championships will also be entitled to the pension allowance, thus eliminating discrimination and ensuring equal sport treatment of disabled athletes and athletes. It is likely that soon the achievements of the Olympic and Paralympic Games will be able to watch on TV and cheer for our athletes, who are the best promoter of Slovenia in the world in these difficult times. And I hope that by confirming this law you will prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Mitja Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the proposal to supplement the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up an opinion which has already been addressed by the competent committee of the National Assembly, and I would like to present only a few basic points here. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport shall maintain and maintain records of beneficiaries of the pension allowance for work and exceptional achievements; this record shall be published on the Ministry’s website and shall also be made public. This record shows what the Ministry also found after analysis that 58 beneficiaries were eligible for this supplement on 1 January 2021. This pension supplement is eligible and already receives 21 athletes who are winners of the Paralympic medals or medals from the Deaf Olympics, i.e. a little more than one third of all recipients are such. We estimate that the amendment to the law in the work proposed by the proposer is necessary, but we note that this will lead to a wide range of recipients. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes that in implementing the provisions of this Act, including in relation to various court decisions, judgments, there is an increasing number of new dilemmas. As a result, the issue of the recognition of the right to a pension allowance for work and exceptional achievements in the field of sport – we are aware and stressing – needs to be regulated, and this fully regulated, and the other provisions of the law also need to be amended. Therefore, the competent ministry is also preparing the remaining necessary amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, With this addition to the Act on the Pensions Supplement for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport, it is simply intended to eliminate discrimination and unequal treatment of top disabled athletes and their outstanding achievements in Paralympic collective and individual sports. We are aware of the assessment of the discriminatory nature of the proposal made by the individual concerned by the Advocate for the principle of equality in the country. The Ombudsman considered that the law in force was discriminatory in the first paragraph of Article 3, which did not allow the pension allowance to be given to the group of disabled athletes; or it was a direct form of discrimination against individuals – top disabled athletes who received a medal in the World Championships and Paralympic Games in collective and individual disciplines. Such an assessment was also made on the basis of the fact that world championships in the system of disabled and non-disabled sports, irrespective of the system of organisation of sports industries of two unions, occupy an equal place. The Advocate informed the Ministry of Education of November 2020 and recommended an amendment to Article 3(1). In assessing discrimination, he also took into account the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of which Slovenia is also a signatory. In Levi, we estimate that the proposal for a law has consistently followed the recommendation on the elimination of discrimination against top disabled athletes who received a medal at world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines. The government opposes the bill's proposal, as has been said before me. The Government notes, however, that, on the basis of the opinion of the Advocate and the Supreme Court on the substantive similar case of 24 February 2021, which granted the applicant’s claim, the proposed amendment of the law in Article 3 is necessary. But the government would like to fully regulate the subject and amend it accordingly and complement the other laws in force, but until then discrimination against disabled athletes should continue, which is absolutely unacceptable for us in Levica. And we have, of course, supported the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! Slovenia has repeatedly proved that we are a nation of top athletes who have carried our Slovenian flag high at home and around the world for 30 years. We look forward to great achievements and compassion when things do not go as planned. Sport teaches us respect and dignity for each individual. The human dignity of all people is the same and does not depend on the personal qualities, achievements and successes, disability, health or opinions of others. Human dignity is untouchable and to the same extent belongs to all men. In the Act on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport, adopted in 2017, there were inequalities between athletes who succeeded in the highest sports competitions. The Act on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport ensures equality between the positions of disabled and non-disabled athletes only at the level of the highest-ranking international competition, in which case the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games. The Advocate for Equality notes that, under Article 6(1) of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, a direct form of discrimination against individuals is defined, in this case, of top athletes of disabled persons, winners of medals from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines. The current law also treats top athletes with disabilities, medal winners in the world championships in the Paralympic sports sectors or disciplines whose position is comparable in the essential real and legal elements to the position of top non-disability athletes, medal winners in the world championships in the Olympic sports industries or disciplines. Since we respect each individual in Novi Slovenija, we will unanimously support the draft law on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport in the Group of Christian Democrats, while at the same time we wish all athletes a great deal of heart and success in the next sport career. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Your Honor! In 2017, the Act on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport was adopted. In the then bill, which was tabled on the basis of a proposal from the Group of Members and Members, it was clearly stated, I quote, “the top sport is extremely cruel to athletes, especially those who do not perform in sports industries that are commercially interesting”. As soon as their career ends, most of them face existential problems, especially when they are no longer in the soybeans of the media. Then they are no longer in the public eye, and this one likes to forget their success. Not to mention that in the fall of their lives, the few often find that their sports organisations for which they have been engaged for many years have not properly paid contributions to pension insurance or have been minimal, and therefore today they have the lowest pension base, which means that their benefits are bottling. Above all, they are forgotten by politics and are ultimately left alone because many do not finish schooling, are without education and so on. After their sports retirement, the country does not have a solution in the form of a job, a pension or an extraordinary pension, even though they were ambassadors to Slovenia during their sports careers around the world. At that time, the law allowed top athletes, who, with their work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport, made a lasting contribution to the development of society, reputation and visibility of the country, to receive an allowance for pensions if they received an Olympic or Paralympic medal, a medal with the Olympic Games of the Deaf, a medal with the Chess Olympics or a medal from world championships in the Olympic collective sports industries or Olympic disciplines, individual sports sectors in the competition. Among the beneficiaries of the supplement were the recipients of the Bloudk Award for Lifetime Work or the top international sports achievements. The 2017 Regulation was based on a system and organisation of sport at international level, setting out competitions which have the greatest international competition and are duly ranked in order to be able to be properly evaluated. The shift in understanding the meaning of the pension allowance and the evaluation of outstanding achievements in the field of sport was achieved in February this year for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This says that exceptional sports achievements are determined on the basis of two criteria – on the basis of the rank of the competition and on the basis of the ranking of the competition. As different Olympics and world championships are included in the competitions, the legal comparability of sports results achieved in various sports competitions and in different disciplines or sectors is established in a way that all of these achievements correspond to the common denominator; and this is the exceptionality of achievement. All the above results should therefore be treated in the same way. The purpose of the law is therefore to reward exceptional achievements, and equality before the law also requires the same application of the criterion at the level of competition in a way that, if non-disabled athletes take into account the world championship in certain sectors or disciplines, the same should apply to disabled athletes. This is why we are putting an end to the discriminatory regime today. We also include top athletes, winners of medals from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines. With a supplement on the home committee, we extended the range of beneficiaries to medal winners from the World Deaf Championships. On the basis of all that has been said, we are pleased to be able to make a decision on the bill and, of course, we are very pleased to support it unanimously. In advance, good luck to all those who engage in sports and thank all athletes for their results!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In recent times we have heard that we Slovenians are divided; and I can say so myself, because at the thirtieth anniversary of our country's independence, we are separated as never before. Nevertheless, the moments remain when the Slovenians unite and show that we know how to be united. These are the successes of our athletes. For sport has incredible power, which makes us want cooperation, belonging, inspiration, and at the same time make sure that we improve our feelings, whether we are sportingly active or loyal fans. In 2017, the Act on the Pensions Supplement for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport was adopted, which enabled athletes and athletes to grant the right to an allowance for pensions, as they contributed significantly to the development of society and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia through their work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. In the then Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we supported the proposal of the marriage without hesitation, because there are few areas in which Slovenians achieve such successes that take us to the world summit; and according to sports achievements we judge right there. But no marriage, which has such a good purpose, is perfect, and it turns out that he forgot about a group of athletes who have to fight even more for the best of success, are even more resourceful and mentally powerful. We're talking paramedics. Today, paramedics and paramedics are engaged in 35 different sports in 172 societies. It is estimated that in Slovenia there are 2 000 456 recreational and high-quality paratroopers and paratroopers. In the upcoming Paralympic Games, Slovenia will play for the 50th anniversary collage at the largest competition for disabled athletes. Discrimination is unfortunately part of every society. Ours isn't an exception either. Many individuals are treated differently daily on the basis of race, sex, sexual orientation, religion, material status and disability. They are thus deprived of the equal recognition, enjoyment and exercise of rights which remain self-evident. The Act on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport, recognised by the Advocate as discriminatory by the recognition of the right to supplement, releases disabled athletes with a medal from world championships in Paralympic sports disciplines or sectors. Under the criteria of the current law, equal treatment is provided only to the winners of medals from the Olympic and Paralympic games. In international competitions, disabled athletes are extremely successful at the world summit itself, so that, by summarizing the words of the law – with their outstanding achievements in the field of sport, they contribute permanently to the development of society and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SAB Group, we are so pleased to support the proposal for a law amending the first paragraph of Article 3 of the current law by including top athletes, medal winners from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines. This complement eliminates discrimination and unequal treatment of top athletes of disabled persons and their outstanding achievements in Paralympic collective and individual sports. If I am paraphrasing the words of director Enye Belak, who has created a video for the Slovenian Paralympic Committee for Sport of Disabled People – with which she wanted to approach the Slovenian public: Sporter does not define disability or disability, gender, race or age. Paramedics are top athletes who, with their energy, expressive focus and dedication, are no different. And that is why in the SAB Group we absolutely support the proposed amendment. For we believe that it is these top athletes who simply deserve such an addition. Thus, in their old age, they will be even more rembered of playing the Slovenian anthem at the time of their celebration and will be even prouder to perform for their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! We hear very often that the Slovenians are a very divided nation. But the fact is, with the success of our sports heroes, we are still quite united. Just look at the latest events around our basketball team, which, after 30 years, has actually become part of the Olympics. In a way that brings together the achievements of our sports ambassadors, we should be united in many areas of social life. Supreme sport and the envious results of a two-million-dollar country can act in a coherent manner as a national identification and as a visible positioning of the country on the world map. Its positive dimensions, however, must also be used with good faith for the wider public good. For example, let me highlight the area of tourism and thus the growth of the economy. Noting firsthand that everything stands on the hard-earned success of athletes, our former colleague, Mr Peter Wilfan, submitted and succeeded in the previous mandate with the proposal of the Law on the Pensions Supplement for Work and Extraordinary Achievements in Sport. The substance of the legal content adopted is as follows. A top athlete, who is the bearer of the Olympic, Paralympic medals, medals with the Olympics of the deaf, medals with the Chess Olympics or medals from the world championships of the Olympic collective and individual sports industries and the winner of the Bludk Award for Life's Work, may receive an addition to his pension. The pension allowance shall be limited and shall range from 70 to 100 % of the difference between the pension of the beneficiary obtained under the pension law and the amount of the retirement pension of the man who is paid for the full pension from the maximum pension base. The purpose of the pension allowance was to provide a decent life for a retired athlete who gained more rights than he did on the basis of his own pension insurance with his outstanding work in the field of sport. However, it is necessary to recognise a mistake or, rather, a somewhat awkward record of the provision determining which sporting achievements are necessary to meet the criteria for obtaining an allowance. Persons with disabilities who are winners of World Cup medals in sports disciplines of the Paralympic, collective or individual sectors were overlooked in the description and adoption of the law in 2017. This anomaly, demonstrated by judicial practice, will be eliminated today and the law fixed by treating the disabled with the same treatment as the top athletes. The principle of equality before the law is clear and, in a particular case, requires the same application of the criterion at the level of competition in a way where non-disabled athletes take into account the world championship in certain sectors or disciplines, should also apply to disabled athletes. From this point of view, in the Desus Group, we agree that the proposed supplement is necessary and, of course, we will be pleased to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! Sport interferes with all social times of life and includes individuals in larger and wider social communities and different segments of the population. It is particularly important that the area of high-quality sport generates many positive social impacts as well as other forms of sports. Of course, achieving the highest sporting achievements is a major action for an individual. However, due to national importance and social resilience, it is also important for the wider national community as well as the international community. In recent days we are once again looking forward to the extraordinary achievements of our basketball players and bikers, who, with their perseverance, courage and humility, place our country on the top of the world sports map. The fact is that the highest sport in the Republic of Slovenia has an important tradition. Citizens in particular appreciate the excellent results of our athletes and athletes. And that's right. In 2017, an important step has been taken to identify the value of the country's top sports achievements. High-ranking athletes, winners of the Olympic or Paralympic medals, medals from the Olympics of the deaf, medals from the Chess Olympics or medals from the World Championships and winners of the Bloud Prize for Lifetime Work or for the Best International Sports Achievement were granted under certain conditions the right to supplement the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. During the implementation of the applicable law since it was adopted in 2017, some of the shortcomings that we are correcting today have been demonstrated. At the initiative of the Advocate of the principle of equality and also confirmed by the judiciary, discrimination has been established which shows that the Paralympics – winners of medals in the world championships are not entitled to an allowance for pensions. There are no rational reasons for such distinction or discrimination. This is noted both by the court in its case law and by the Advocate for the principle of equality. And in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree with such an assessment. The position of disabled and non-disabled athletes is basically the same. In the sense of their action as participants in global sports competitions at which they achieve medals, it would be appropriate to correct and even their situation as soon as possible. Supreme sport has many positive values to an individual and to a nation as a whole, so it is important that we, as a country with special interest, support disabled athletes and athletes in achieving the highest results. And this is also in the way we do it with today's marriage proposal. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members. At this point, however, we reiterate that it would also be appropriate at the legal level to arrange a pension allowance for all other important, in particular top artists and scientists. In the near future, special attention will also have to be paid to these social groups, which, like athletes, deserve the same treatment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	All in attendance, all in attendance! Congratulations to our basketball players for the Olympics! Our Slovenian nation is definitely a sports nation, now we also have excellent handballers, bikers, skiers, swimmers, shooters, we wake up in tennis and others that I will not eliminate. Paralympics believe that the body and power of the spirit cannot be set limits. Therefore, we should not view sports disabled persons through the prism of disability, but rather as top athletes who respond with excellent sports results at the end of the day. The law currently in force was adopted four years ago. The assessment of the Advocate of the principle of equality is that the top athletes are disabled and non-disabled in a comparable position and should therefore also be equal in rights to eliminate discrimination in the treatment of top athletes of disabled persons who are deprived of the right to an allowance. That world championships in the system of disabled and non-disabled sports occupy a comparable or unequal place is not entirely true. The new law would also include top athletes who are winners of medals from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, all ministers are very interested in taking pictures of the success of athletes, but when there is something to be done for them, their answer may be yes, but it can't be done. Look, this law requires an additional EUR 24 000 from our state treasury. It's really funny that we're dealing with this. The figures tell us that on average the individual beneficiary received around 960 euros at monthly level, which is not so little in relation to our low pensions, but which must be harmonised, because they are indeed too low and the monetary social benefits are too high, which are respected on this page, which you supported at that time. Practice also shows that only bits in every law are always regulated in relation to different laws, but not in full law, which should be regulated in our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Act on Pensions for Work and Exceptional Achievements in Sport was adopted in 2017 with the aim of ensuring social security for top athletes who have made a lasting contribution to the development of society and also to the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia. In practice, many high - ranking athletes have shown themselves to be in some material or social distress soon after their careers have ceased or ended. According to the latest data under the existing law, 57 beneficiaries were added to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. Thus, in 2019 a total of EUR 660 000 was paid out from the State budget, which means that on average the individual beneficiary received EUR 11 000 600 and EUR 960 per month’s pension allowance. With this change, top athletes, medal winners from world championships in Paralympic collective and individual sports disciplines or sectors, as well as winners of medals from the World Deaf Championships, are also included in the list of beneficiaries of the pension allowance for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. Respected and respected! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, where we always support good proposals, we will also support this law, which brings benefits to this area. So we will unanimously support the proposal for the law on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. But let me conclude with sincere gratitude and thanks, respected athletes, respected athletes, for your efforts, for your promotion of our country and, of course, with thanks for the pride with which you inspire us to achieve victory and excellent results. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Politicians like to thank athletes, they like to paint around them, but the country has done very little in all these years for Slovenian sport and for the success of all these athletes who have achieved it. Well, this time we have, we can say, exceptionally before each other, a law that slightly improves the position of athletes in Slovenia. As already mentioned, since 2017, individuals from the Republic of Slovenia who have made a lasting contribution to the development of society and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia through their work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport and who are entitled to a pension supplement under the general rules. The pension allowance shall be at least 70 % and not more than 100 % of the difference between the pension of an individual and the amount of the pension pension of a man, calculated from the maximum pension base for 40 years under the general rules. The first indent of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on the Regulation of the Beneficiaries to the Pensions Supplement regulates this matter. This Article provides that the right to an allowance shall be acquired by a beneficiary who, with outstanding achievements in the field of sport, has made a lasting contribution to the development of society and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, so that he is a top athlete who is the winner of the Olympic or Paralympic medals, medals from the Olympic Games of the Deaf, medals from the Chess Olympic Olympics or medals from the world championships in the Olympic collective sports industries or the Olympic sports disciplines, individual sports industries in the membership competition. However, the problem that we currently have arises in an article I mentioned earlier that it means direct discrimination against disabled athletes on the basis of disability, as the regulation also values the highest achievements in disabled and non-disabled sports, which I think we can all agree is unacceptable. Like the Advocate of the principle of equality in the LMŠ Group, we believe that, in order to avoid ambiguities and the consequent unequal treatment of top athletes of disabled persons in the right to an allowance to the pension, the said indent should be supplemented and the top athletes, winners of medals from world championships in the Paralympic collective and individual sports sectors or disciplines, should also be added to the list of beneficiaries. High athletes with disabilities and non-disableds are in a comparable position, so they must also be equal in rights. Since the novel eliminates this discrimination in the treatment of the top disabled athletes who have been deprived of the right to supplement, we will, of course, unanimously support the novelty in the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! On the fourth day of the extensive July meeting of the National Assembly, where there are some important decisions ahead or behind us. At the same time, I believe that a few discussions and even a vote will simplify us as much as we do our top athletes and athletes. Respected and respected, the outstanding achievements of our athletes are for Slovenia and all its citizens and citizens a common denominator that inspires and connects us regardless of our beliefs and differences. Moreover, after everything they have shown us and made us happy by athletes during and before the Slovenian independence, we could argue that sport is often the first and last bond of society, which rarely fails to unite all our citizens and citizens. And they prove all the time that there is no corner in the world to encourage our champions and there are no time zones or other obstacles, when we do not proudly win with Slovenian flags and call out that birth cry Who does not jump, there is no Slovenians. Justifiablely, we can be proud of our athletes and athletes. There are only two million of us and so many successful athletes. We have many more than a large country. And certainly so, it is also true that the top athletes, who have resorted to the highest laurels, have also received the respect of our country at the time of retirement, to thank them, and finally to provide greater social protection even when their active sports career is over and they enjoy the years of retirement that they deserve. Being a top athlete is not just a job, it is more than that, it is a mission that requires a great deal of denial. It is right that the country treats this mission with great respect and responsibility, so in the Group of Social Democrats we welcome all the efforts made so far by the National Assembly and our former or current fellow Members and colleagues for the adoption of the Law on the Appendix to the Pensions for Work and Extraordinary Achievements in the Field of Sport. We believe that the law was adopted in 2017 in the best faith that it will overcome all top athletes and athletes and their achievements without specific distinctions. However, today's proposal for the amendment of the law shows what the Advocate for Equality has also pointed out and points out the Supreme Court's judgment that the law needs to be perfected, in order to include at least top athletes with disabilities who are winners of World Cup medals at the Paralympic collective and individual sports disciplines and winners of medals from the World Deaf Championships. This amendment is not only an obligation to eliminate the discrimination detected by disabled athletes with excellent sports results comparable to those already registered in law. It is a responsibility that we bear regardless of our clientele or political preferences, that we cherish our national pride with all due care and, of course, support all top athletes and athletes. And by today, I believe we will unitedly support this amendment of the law, I believe that we will also give it the right legal basis for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, I conclude the second reading of the law. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law to amend the law on the placement of children with special needs, within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 14 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. The bill is being proposed at the 20th session of 16. 6. 2021 considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after its final consideration, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for the transfer of views. First he gets the word Tadej Šuštar, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. There's no colleague. It's mag. Mr Andrej Reich, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members and fellow Members! Today's debate on the amendment of the Children's Guidance Act, with special needs starting with the song of the Drobtinica Toneta Pavčka. It goes like this: "You're in the world to look at the sun. You're in the world to follow the sun. You are in the world, that you are yourself a sun, and that you are turning away the shadows from the world." If you ask the parents of children with special needs, there are few who will say that they have a special sun at home. The sun that lit up after parents overcame the shadows — the shadows of doubt, of worry, of disappointment. This is precisely the heart of the changes in the law that we consider today to be a society to help parents, as well as teachers, to deal with all the feelings and efforts they face in raising and caring children with special needs. Many steps in this direction have already been taken both by the basic proposal of the Act under consideration and by the Law on the Comprehensive Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, which provided a multi-disciplinary approach to early treatment for children with special needs and their families. Even more than children, the family needs proper guidance in order to accept their child’s differences and to be able to support him in their lives and development. Then there are new challenges, the challenges of integration into education and society. The key objective of the bill is to ensure equal treatment of children with special needs in education and education in a way that all children in need are entitled to a permanent escort. The current regulation provides that only blind and more difficult and difficult-to-moving children who are moderated to pre-school programmes and to educational programmes with adapted implementation with additional professional assistance are entitled to a permanent companion. However, other children with special needs are exceptionally entitled to a temporary escort for the exercise of physical assistance. By amending Article 10 of the proposed law, children with special needs targeted at adapted education and education programmes are entitled to a permanent companion. This would also justify long - term illness, ill - sighted children, children with autistic disorders, and children with emotional and behavioral disorders that the companion needs. However, the precise scope of the tasks and activities would be dealt with by means of a sub-legislative act. This initiative and this desire are also supported by the Alenka Bratušek Group of the Party, so we are extremely disappointed and angry that the Government and the coalition have not been able to understand enough to support the amendment. Too often, we must be satisfied with the answer that the Government will regulate everything at systemic level and will fully address a particular issue. Unfortunately, we can never wait for these systemic novels and changes, or we will find them unfortunately too late. We therefore once again call on the Government to fulfil its promise and send its solutions immediately into the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Vice President, thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The human community is a social society, people are dependent on each other, today me, tomorrow you. We never know when life will put us in a situation where we depend on someone else’s help. If not sooner, it will be when we're old and we're sick. In caring for any vulnerable group and individual who, for such or other reasons in life, needs the help of another group, whether it be one hour a day or a 24-hour supply, Slovenia may be torn down by a number of countries. Nevertheless, it is essential to build up permanent assistance to the powerless and disadvantaged. Children with special needs are first and foremost children. They need to be given more care because they are barely getting into life and are learning to live. Children and young people with special needs should be provided with an additional hand of assistance on this path, and we are already very much in the process of adapting to the organisation and form of educational work. This concern also includes the provision of physical assistance to blind children, children with severe mobility, exceptionally and when necessary, and accompanying care for visually impaired, long-term ill children, children with autistic disabilities and children with behavioural and emotional problems. However, emphasis is placed on physical aid in the current legislation. The proposal to amend the law proposed extending the provision of permanent assistance to all categories of children listed above, which would extend beyond physical assistance. In the Desus Group, we agree that for all groups of children with special needs whose nature is such that they do not just justify the immediately-called physical assistance in kindergarten or school, there is a need to provide assistance which is of wider importance and concerns the assistance of both children and teachers. This would give enormous added value to the well-being and optimal, comprehensive development of an individual. The well-intention of the bill cannot therefore be disputed, but Members in our parliamentary group have considered that the issue is not so unique and simply solved. It requires a thorough professional reflection on the necessary professional competences of the escort and on how to ensure an adequate number of staff and how to provide organisational and physical care for such supplies in the network of educational institutions. The competent ministry has explained the implementation of selected pilot projects, from which a certain conclusion can already be drawn, and the proven possible guidelines for the development of a re-education and education of pupils and students, which we are pleased to see. At the same time, we expect the whole, more uniform and more modern approach to providing such assistance to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! With insufficient support for the amendment of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs on the parental committee, which would regulate the right of a permanent escort to all children in need of such assistance, today we must inform all parents of autistic children and children with other difficulties that the government coalition in the National Assembly does not go so far as to resolve this problem. I'm sorry. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we supported the proposal of the law, knowing that it will not solve all the problems that plague the child guidance system with special needs; but it will and will, however, solve the left-wing share of the difficult situations faced mainly by children with emotional and behavioural disorders. It is children who are most overlooked by the system, especially because they are suffocating in their own complexity and inconsistencies. For many years, the profession has warned that the existing system has outgrown itself. But it is up to us, the opposition and the coalition, to overcome in the future so much understanding and prudence that we do not let it fall into ruin with a late reaction. The field of child guidance with special needs is too important to be left to the present inspiration and mercy or to the mercy of the ruling. Certainly, the first two matters that need to be addressed systematically are the revision of child guidance procedures with special needs and the provision of adequate staff to deal with and assist these children daily in dealing with their handicap. The Ministry of Education has promised to bring a comprehensive legislative reform of the special needs education system to the National Assembly by the end of this year when considering the law on the home committee. If it does not, we will push for the re-investment of this amendment in the legislative process. In recent attempts to remedy injustices and injustices to vulnerable social groups, such as recent changes in the area of the increase in disability pensions and pensions, the Government has apparently been lacking the will to help this group. It is our duty to correct this, not because of political prestige, but because of the expression of social empathy and the awareness that the problem of accompanying children with special needs must be addressed. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we hope that this understanding will be more and more in the next attempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Your Honor! First of all, we might ask ourselves the cause or what affects the fact that we have more and more children with special needs in our society. Sometimes, a few years ago, decades ago, this was not the case, but some of them were learning a little harder, so they went to further study and those who were smarter to learn more. There was no talk of children with autistic disorders, children with emotional and behavioural disorders, hyperactivity of children, and so on, as the latter were considered uneducated and unruly. In the Slovenian National Party, we have a feeling that all children want to go somewhere, like, in quotations, normal and abnormal, and discriminate against them, in some way, to be branded forward. All these things are certainly affected by the worsening rapid diet, daily stress of children, problems in the primary family, separation of parents, and other things. It is not possible to overlook the pressing issues, but under the current legislation the right of a permanent companion is reserved only for blind and more difficult and hard-to-do children who actually need physical assistance. The latter is offered by companions with a fifth level of education, who are often employed through public works for a certain period of time or four hours a day. What high professional skills are difficult to talk about, since they are undereducated in this direction, they also lack experience. The proposal for a bill seeks to ensure equal treatment of children with special needs for education and education, which is, however, populism, but would require much more appropriate optional educational staff; I will not even talk about the financial implications. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the cases raised are partial and insufficiently addressed despite the recommendation of the Ombudsman, the Advocate of the principle of equality and the anti-governmental arguments of the Union of NGOs for the Autism of Slovenia. We must be aware that changes to such a vulnerable and vulnerable group are expected to be prepared in the future in an expert, informed and thoughtful manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Hello! Thank you for your word. Today we talk about people with special needs, more specifically, those involved in the educational process, children in kindergarten, primary or secondary school. It is not a coincidence that we are talking about a word in the plural, not a special need, but a special need. Because these are more species, and we really have to say that each part of us has some special needs, some specialty to a greater or lesser extent, because we are not standardized robots. The moment when the speciality of a child of this kind is to present a problem in the teaching and training process is one that shows that it needs to be supported by all the various means that help him to perform in the micro- and macro-environment from the same baseline as others who do not have this problem. The quality of society is demonstrated in its sensitivity to people and in particular to children with special needs. We believe that the intention of the motioners to amend the law on children with the special needs of the group of Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic is good. However, we believe that the proposed amendment does not provide the right solution to the problems it presents. They propose a solution to identify a companion to children with special needs who would need help due to a wide variety of shortcomings, obstacles, or disruptions. We think that this is a proposal that, quickly and in a manner that is not sufficiently familiar, is a solution to the problems that both children, parents and the profession find. A secondary education companion, generally or indeterminately professional for all cases, is not the solution. The current legislation on education and education of children with special needs allows children with special needs to be granted, in addition to directing them to an appropriate education and education programme, necessary adjustments and guidance aids by a decision-making decision, a permanent or temporary escort, which is only physical assistance, which in some cases is sufficient, for example, a companion to a blind student or a student involved in an education programme. It is important to know, however, that the types of special needs have different levels and shades and requirements, whether they are autism, emotional and behavioural problems or shortcomings in a particular area. It is also a combination of disorders and obstacles. The relevant measures to overcome the problems triggered by such situations shall be assessed first by an expert in the educational institution, externally specialised institutions and finally by the Commission for Children with Special Needs, which shall draw up professionally targeted and effective measures. With only an added companion with no specific knowledge of the child with special needs, he will gain little or nothing. The fact is that there is a need for reform in the field of education, which primarily includes the individualisation and personalisation of teaching for all those involved in the education system, and in particular to complement the concept of child inclusion with special needs. The inclusion of all children in standard schools supported by individualised approaches should to the greatest extent be implemented. This means the possibility of interacting with two different educational programmes in the same group of children or in the same classroom. There is no doubt that this would also require human resources reinforcements, staff, which should have adequate education, which would actually provide children with special learning, social and communication needs, as well as physical assistance in some cases. During the discussion at the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that they were preparing solutions that had proved well in the pilot projects carried out, with special assistants involved in the educational work, where they helped children with special needs to follow the course, with them for a short period of time, if they needed relief or rest, they had moved away from the classroom, helping the professional worker. The experience of these projects should be included in the law, which will thus provide an integral basis for optimal assistance to children with special needs, and therefore we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but will wait for the promised government proposal this autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today is a sad day for children with special needs in the Republic of Slovenia. The decision of the coalition members of the SDS, NSI, SMC and the representative of the national smaller is the end of the amendment of the law, by which we wanted to allow the right to a permanent escort for all children with special needs during education. In short, there was no way that we could discuss this topic today and seek further solutions. What's the situation today? Today, only harder and more difficult children and blind children are entitled to a permanent physical assistance companion; other children with special needs, real autistics, and children with emotional and behavioural disabilities, have an exceptional opportunity to visit a temporary companion, saying temporary and not permanent. All those who have ever worked with children with special needs know that a permanent companion is key to their development, since the child is emotionally attached to it and actually affects its development not only during schooling but for the rest of his life. And that is why we have considered in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, and today we believe that all children with special needs, whether they are children of motion or children with autistic disabilities, must be treated equally. And it saddens me that obviously there are people in this House who think otherwise. We formally tabled this law in the List of Marjan Šarc, but on behalf of the Association of NGOs for the Autism of Slovenia, where they have been working for years to change this Article and in fact to all those who need this permanent companion, this has also been realized. This law was prepared professionally because it was prepared by the professional public. It is important to mention that there was a similar law, we can say the same, already tabled at the end of the term of office of the previous assembly of parliament. But interestingly, it was supported by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council and the Members of SMC and New Slovenia, who actually contributed 12 votes in favour to the committee. Thus, no one objected to the 2018 proposal. What is most interesting is that in 2018, among the signatories of the proposed law, which I say is the same as it was then, Dr Simona Kustec, is said to be the current minister. In 2018, this law was supported, most likely because the elections were approaching and it was appropriate that it could be presented more easily in public. Today, as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who is even more likely to defend these children, does not support this law. Understand who can. In fact, the debate we had three weeks ago on the Committee showed that this law was supported by both experts, parents and other stakeholders working with these children daily. They said that the law was more than necessary and that it was also appropriate to help these children in practice. Why the coalition voting machine, with the support of individuals, decided not to let this law go into the next consideration so that it could be improved and upgraded here, can be answered by everyone. One of the coalition's excuses was to prepare a modern law. I can't imagine what modern law means for children with special needs, because these children with special needs need a practical law. They need a permanent companion with them, not a modern date, if I may say so. Since we are already very much in July, and that all these experts, the parents working in this area, knew absolutely nothing about this law, I wonder with whom the Ministry is also coordinating this law and in what form it will come to us in Parliament if it does. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will continue to seek to solve this problem and to resolve the long-standing injustice for children with special needs. And we are also at this point predicting that we will actually re- table a bill that is more than necessary. Because children with special needs do not require anything more than everyone else, they only want the same starting points as all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia so that they can succeed as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We probably all agree that this bill, which was drafted by the LMŠ opposition party, had a good purpose. Unfortunately, however, the legislative process has ended for him because it is very obvious that the government of that good purpose has unfortunately not recognized it. The bill would extend the right to a permanent escort, so that those children with special needs who need constant or temporary assistance from the escort and not just physical assistance would be entitled to it. The right to a permanent companion in kindergarten and school would thus be justified by the long - term illness, poor visionary children, children with autistic disorders, and children with emotional and behavioural disorders that need a companion. To date, they are exceptionally eligible only for temporary assistance, not for permanent assistance. A permanent companion would certainly make it easier for children to go to school. You could also help them with some of the problems these children face. However, the competent ministry would define in a specific sub-legislative act the role of the accompanying party, its tasks and activities. In any case, companions should be highly qualified people who can help their children. The draft law was also supported by the Union of Non-Governmental Organisations for Autism, which was also an incentive for changes in the law. In her opinion, she quoted it as saying: “With this change, the country would finally provide children with the autism of professional, thought-out and children's benefit in all educational programmes equal opportunities for education belonging to them under the Constitution, but they are still in absolute violation.” Because the current bill allows children with autism only the right to a temporary one and therefore every time to another companion. Unfortunately, as has already been said, the Government has not supported the bill with an excuse that the content should be addressed more comprehensively and that a new law should be drawn up with solutions that have been tested with pilot projects for years. We have, of course, heard this story many times before, or excuses for the Government to prepare its more comprehensive proposal for the law, but then we have been waiting many years for the right solutions. However, the greatest damage during the waiting period is precisely caused to the user of the law, in this case to children who have been deprived of permanent assistance for too long and in an unequal situation compared to children with special needs who have the right to a permanent companion. We therefore call on the Government to draw up this comprehensive bill this year, because children deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable! In Levica, we argue that it is unacceptable that for 8 years in the Republic of Slovenia, I repeat, 8 years of legislation has been in place to stop children with special needs from violating constitutional laws and rights arising from international treaties signed by the Republic of Slovenia. Eight years. According to the Ministry of Education, 598 pupils have an approved temporary companion and 39 pupils. All of this is violated by rights. Consequences to life and unacceptable for this category. In schools where they have provided their funds in such a way or other way that they have a 100 percent-performing companion to the child to whom the decision is directed, the progress of these children is visible. Why is this damage in the interest of whom and for what? Since the Constitution in Article 57 of the Republic of Slovenia states: «Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education." In accordance with Article 14 of the same Constitution, a child, subject to special needs on the basis of a decision on guidance and an individualised plan prepared to work with that child, prepared under the Children's Guidance Act with Special Needs, shall be assigned a temporary escort to be able to be in an equal position with other children in the monitoring of learning. Unfortunately, that is not what the State is doing. It responds to schools wishing to have a companion for a child, because this is a legal matter that is not being implemented – we will not implement the guidance decision, but we can provide you with a 0.25% job, 0.5% or 0.62% of the job under Article 39 of the Regulation on Standards and Standards for the Implementation of the Primary School Programme if the child is self-aggressive or aggressive to others. The country is already funded. If these escorts were highly educated, high-level, seventh-degree employees today, the state says they would need 12 million. Already funding these escorts in some way, and this amount is much smaller, but it's not about how much it's going to cost. It's not a matter of resources. This is to ensure that the State fulfils its legal obligation to this vulnerable category, which is prescribed by the accompanying party in the guidance decision. However, the decision on direction is written on the basis of the law. When we have listened to the government's replies in Levica, why the matter is not done, we only say this – we urge you, the government, to provide all the beneficiaries with an accompanying, temporary, physical assistance, or whatever it is called, although this companion helps to socialise the child, in accordance with the guidance decision and individualised plan, on the basis of Article 39 of the Regulation on Standards and Standards for the Implementation of the Primary School Programme. Now the government is doing this and we don't know, we don't understand it in Levica, why it's not guaranteed to all the children that the companion belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for amendments and additions by the Member of State to the general meeting, within the framework of the summary procedure. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure were submitted to the assembly by a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Vojko Starović. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Vojk Starović for further explanation of the Draft amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present, dear Members, colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are before us today, are the result of long-term preparations and coordination between the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly. The proposal pursues two objectives. The first objective is to amend Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the proposer to have his proposal at his disposal throughout the legislative procedure. It can also be withdrawn just before the hearing, which it has not been able to do so far and the proposal for a law has nevertheless been dealt with in the National Assembly, despite the proposal's reservations. The aim is to ensure that the National Assembly is not burdened by proposals for laws in which the proposer himself considers that the reasons for their withdrawal are. The second objective is to harmonise the regime of parliamentary immunity with other laws. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has found that there is a certain discrepancy between the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Members and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the regulation of the procedural immunity of Members of the National Assembly. Immunity is a Member's privilege to exempt it from the application of individual legal rules applicable to other citizens, but the primary purpose of parliamentary immunity is not to protect a Member as an individual, but to protect the uninterrupted part of the National Assembly. The proposed amendments and additions, in addition to harmonisation, also provide a clearer distinction between the prior recognition of immunity based on the request of the competent national authority when the conditions for determining the detention of a Member or the initiation of a criminal procedure are laid down and the subsequent recognition of immunity based on the notification of the competent national authority. The essential ingredients to be included in the request or notification shall also be specified in more detail. The duties of the President of the National Assembly with regard to the transmission of the request and the notification to the Management Election Commission shall also be clearly defined. However, a key novelty is that the National Assembly has notified the initiation of a criminal procedure against a Member who does not refer to immunity is dealt with optionally, i.e. when there are reasonable grounds for deciding whether immunity is necessary for the functioning of the National Assembly. However, the procedure shall be carried out only if the President of the National Assembly so proposes, a delegation whose member is a member of the Member to whom the immunity relates, or a Member, if he is not a member of any parliamentary group. The applicant must state the reasons for the decision on subsequent immunity. If none of the eligible applicants proposes a decision on immunity, the National Assembly shall not decide on immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were considered by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to Vice-President Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Rules of Procedure Commission shall be held at its 11th session. 6. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Vojko Starović to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure on 25 March were considered by the working body. In accordance with the first indent of Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission shall consider the draft Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and its amendments and additions. In accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall have rules of procedure, which shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. In accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its amendments and additions shall be adopted mutatis mutandis in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of Law. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 102nd meeting on 20 April that the draft act should be examined in a simplified manner. The Commission was attended by a representative of the proposaler and the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission Vojko Starović, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, a representative of the Council of State Franci Rokavec and a representative of the Government of Mags. Peter Gershak. The legislative and legal service examined the draft act in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and did not comment on the proposed text. The representative of the proposaler Vojko Starović briefly presented the proposed act in the supplementary explanation and said that the proposed amendments and additions related to the amendments to Article 118(1) of the Rules of Procedure and to the arrangements for procedures relating to parliamentary immunity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion, the representative of the Council of State of France Rokavec said that the State Council supported the proposed amendments and additions. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration presented the Government's opinion and said that the Government, within the meaning of the principle of the division of power, could not interfere with the procedure and manner in which the work of the National Assembly was organised. In the debate, the Members present at the meeting asked in more detail what the proposed amendment to Article 118(1) really meant, in which some felt that such an amendment was not appropriate. The Commission did not adopt the necessary two-thirds majority of the votes cast by members of the Committee's proposals for amendments to Articles 1 and 2. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted on all the articles of the draft act together and adopted them with the required two-thirds majority vote of the members present. So 11 members were present, 10 for and one for. In the absence of amendments to the draft act, the Rules of Procedure Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be adopted in the summary procedure in the text tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you again for the word, chairman. Have a nice hello again! Each intervention in the Rules of Procedure requires a high consensus of both members of the coalition and members of the opposition. It is rare that, subject to the amendment of the legal act, all parliamentary groups shall be signed, with the exception of one parliamentary group. And that's exactly what the bill is going to be today. It's two sets of supplements. The first set concerns the possibility of withdrawing the proposed law from the legislative procedure. The current regulation restricts the law's proposers from withdrawing or replacing the law with a new one. According to the new proposal, it is possible for the applicants to have the legislative proposal at their disposal all the time, either in a way to withdraw it fully or to replace it with another. The proposed solution will have an important impact on the legislative process in order not to burden itself needlessly. The second set of amendments concerns the amended regime of the procedure relating to parliamentary immunity, in particular due to the need to comply with other acts. According to the new Rules of Procedure, the procedure for prior and subsequent decisions on immunity will also be more specifically regulated. The prior recognition of immunity will be based on the request of the competent national authority, which will have to have all the prescribed ingredients in order to be subject to consideration. Subsequently recognised immunity will be based on a notification from the competent authority. It should also be noted that the amended provisions of the Rules of Procedure will also apply to decisions on the immunity of the judge, the Ombudsman and his deputy. Emissary immunity has meaning and meaning. Its aim is to ensure the smooth work of Parliament as the supreme representative body in the democratic system, but not at all and not at all costs. Immunity should only be granted in cases where the prosecution of a Member significantly impedes the normal work of Parliament, provided that neither the gravity nor the type of criminal offence are so severe and rejected that the recognition of immunity demoralises the legal order. As a rule, it is difficult for us to imagine that a Member would commit serious crimes, since it is an elected representative of the people, so I will try to present a more realistic option. A larger number of individuals decide to file more criminal complaints against a Member, such as 20 or indemnifications. It does not matter whether the actions are substantiated. Even if someone else pours mud on you, you are still the one who is muddy, aren't you, and this mud needs to be washed away, which everyone takes time and energy. Time to be focused on the exercise of the Member's function, for which he was elected, knowing that the treatment of his own privileges by politicians is one of the most important indicators of the degree of development of political, cultural and legal culture. We support the proposed amendments in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for all of us represent a constitution in small. I would like to point out that this is not a coalition act and it is not an opposition act, but government material. This is our common small constitution of our Slovenian Parliament. It follows us at virtually every step, and we are obliged to act according to its statutes. These changes that we now have before us are neither coalition nor opposition. These changes are the result of the almost unanimous consensus of all of us. The signatories and thus supporters of the proposed amendments are therefore all the leaders of the parliamentary groups of this time the composition of the National Assembly, with the exception of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. The two key issues are included in this amendment, namely the possibility of withdrawing the bill or replacing it with a new text by the beginning of the hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly or by the beginning of the hearing at the meeting of the working body, after the National Assembly has already taken note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the amendments tabled; and the more precise regulation of the procedural immunity of Members, Judges, the Ombudsman and so on. Both the proposed solutions are unanimously supported by Members of the DeSUS Group. With regard to the so-called extended possibility of withdrawing the bill – the current regulation allows for the withdrawal of the proposal to be included in the meeting of the National Assembly or the working body – we have also heard arguments against such an arrangement in the Desus Group. It is their argument that in such a case the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service, any amendments, the Government's opinion and so on constitute additional burdens. However, the potential withdrawal from these documents is certainly a burden on the legislative process. The possibility of replacing the proposal with a new text, in our opinion, is also a consideration of a more comprehensive proposal, both in terms of systemic, nomatechnic and in terms of the appropriateness of the substantive solutions. Their claims – the representatives of the Left – that the proposed regime means lowering democratic standards, that it is simply unsustainable and that its purpose is simply to exhaust opposition Members, are clearly exaggerated. Many proposals for laws after public hearing remain in the cabinets, even though activities are under way at this time in order to examine the proposal also in our premises. Let me give you an example of legislation on long-term care, which has been in existence for decades, and a proposal has been formally put into the legislative procedure days ago. However, the examination of the proposals does not begin on the date of the submission of the proposal to the National Assembly; or on certain occasions. In view of the more precise arrangements for procedural immunity in our parliamentary group, we assess the proposed solutions as meaningful and necessary, as they eventually eliminate the inconsistencies between the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which our Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. The key content of this work is the separation between the prior recognition of immunity based on the request of the competent national authority and the subsequent recognition of immunity based on the notification of the competent national authority. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, and the composition of the Slovenian Parliament shall be colourful and the Rules of Procedure shall not be adopted solely by the votes of the Coalition, the opposition votes shall be key. I therefore reiterate what I have stated at the outset, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not both a coalition or an opposition act, but rather our parliamentary common small constitution. We really cannot write it all down, so let me conclude with an appeal to all Members of Parliament and Members – regardless of our differing views, let us set our minds on patient action and, above all, respect for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	We will, of course, support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. As you know, the proposed amendments and additions are the result of the coordination between the leadership of the National Assembly, the professional services, the legislative and legal services and the parliamentary groups, and the members and members of the Rules of Procedure Commission, with these coordinations taking almost three years. The first set of main solutions is an amendment to Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, which will allow the bill's proposer to withdraw or replace it with a new proposal just prior to the treatment on the home labour body, which he has not been able to do until now. However, the prerequisite for such a decision will, of course, be the assessment that there are sufficient reasons for this, once it is generally familiar with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and of course the amendments tabled. In the parliamentary group, we welcome the proposed solution; the proposer may already consider the opinions and views of the proposed proposal by this point of the legislative process and on the basis of these estimates that he would not be supported by it, or that appropriate amendments or harmonisation of the proposal could not be achieved by means of amendments. The aim of this is to ease the legislative process with which we agree by unrelated Members. The second set of amendments concerns the regulation of procedural parliamentary immunity. Immunity is the privilege of Members to be exempt from the application of law enforcement rules that apply to all individuals suspected of serving a crime. In doing so, it should be noted that this exemption is not unconditional, but only applied in cases where the aim is to protect the uninterrupted part of the National Assembly. It should be noted that in this case only procedural changes are concerned. The Rules of Procedure do not separate procedures when it comes to deciding on immunity on the basis of a Member's request and when it comes to deciding on immunity only on the basis of a notification from the competent authority in the criminal procedure in which the Member was brought. The National Assembly shall also decide on immunity if the Member does not refer to it at all, on the basis of a notification by the competent authority that the Member is in detention or criminal proceedings for a criminal offence with a penalty of more than five years. However, the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure would separate the immunity procedure when the Member refers to it and the procedure where the Member does not invoke that immunity. If no one proposes a decision on immunity, the National Assembly will not decide on it. Otherwise, a qualified proposer will also have to justify why the decision on immunity is necessary for the smooth functioning of the National Assembly. In this regard, we would also like to draw attention to our contribution to the proposed solutions. The initial proposal of the services provided that a proposal for a subsequent decision on immunity could be submitted by a parliamentary group whose member is a Member to which the notification relates or by a Member to which the notification relates if it is not a member of any member group. Now, however, the possibility of proposing this procedure in the proposal has also expanded to the President of the National Assembly. The last proposal was based on the fact that the President of the National Assembly was first called to take care of the smooth functioning of the National Assembly. In addition, it must take care of the integrity of the National Assembly and the reputation of the parliamentary function. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support these changes in the parliamentary group. However, we regret that the National Assembly has not been able to reach agreement that the Institute of Parliamentary Immunity should be more adequately regulated at the constitutional level, as some experts have been alerting for many years. We believe that we should consider reshaping this institution, which, of course, is not possible with the changes to the Rules of Procedure, but simply with the amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. It is Dušan Šiško who will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	Your Honor! One of the two main objectives of this proposal for a revision of the Rules of Procedure is that the draft law can be withdrawn by the beginning of the consideration of the bill and not only by the conclusion of the meeting at which the law will be examined. This gives the applicant the opportunity to be able to dispose of the draft law throughout the proceedings. The applicant shall be given more autonomy, since if he considers that there is a reason for the withdrawal of the law, he shall do so, even if it is just before the hearing. The second amendment concerns changes in the procedural immunity of Members. It would make sense to make a change that would include substantive parliamentary immunity from civil liability, as it ensures free expression of opinions, proposals and views without fear of any responsibility. A large number of countries from Europe are aware of such arrangements. The constitutional regime, which limits parliamentary immunity only to the exception of criminal liability and does not exclude the Member's civil responsibility for the said words in Parliament, raises doubts about parliamentary democracy. The latter must ensure the full independence of the legislative branch of authority from the executive branch of the judiciary. Members' immunity from civil liability would allow them to avoid certain political farcees because Members have a wide range of freedom of speech. It would provide a guardian to maintain a certain level of cultural political dialogue in Parliament. Nevertheless, the participation of Members in any procedure may significantly impede the functioning of Parliament, leading to the Member being unable to carry out his duties in Parliament. Obstacles to operation can be seen mainly in this reference, where any voice is important and the problem of operation can also arise due to the absence of patients on a critical day. Parliament's decisions are so important for the country that it is essential for their adoption to ensure the optimal conditions for Members' opinions to be expressed freely and constructively.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman! This amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are two amendments and one addition. Immunity generally means the right or privilege of an individual to be exempt from the application of individual legal provisions applicable to other persons. The fundamental purpose of parliamentary immunity is to enable Parliament, as the highest representative body in the country, to work independently and smoothly and to ensure the conditions for the full and free functioning of its members in the exercise of the function in which they were elected. All modern constitutions therefore generally recognise parliamentary immunity as a guarantee of the Member's legal security and independence in the performance of his duties. The main objective of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure is therefore to make a more specific distinction between the procedure for the so-called preliminary decision on immunity referred to in Article 83(2) of the Constitution and the procedure for the so-called subsequent decision on immunity referred to in Article 83(3) of the Constitution, since there are two different situations which require a different and more detailed procedure for the decision-making of the National Assembly on immunity. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure introduce clearer, more transparent and appropriate legal arrangements for both procedures for deciding on Member's immunity, in which the National Assembly examines the request of the competent national authority to allow detention against a Member or for the authorisation of the National Assembly to initiate a criminal procedure against a Member and to notify the competent national authority of the arrangements for detention against a Member or the notice of initiation of a criminal procedure against a Member. The proposal introduces a new regulation of the procedure for examining the notification by the competent national authority of the course of criminal proceedings against a Member and implements the constitutional provision referred to in Article 83(3) more appropriately than the applicable rules of procedure. The Supplement to the Rules of Procedure is also proposed in the work relating to the immunity of the judge and the Ombudsman or his deputy, since the judicial immunity of the judge is subject to the order of detention and the conduct of the criminal procedure; and only the detention of the Ombudsman or his deputy. The proposed amendments concerning the immunity of a Member which distinguish between the procedure relating to the request and the procedure concerning the notification of a competent national authority require a supplement setting out clearly which procedure relating to the immunity of a Member is to be taken into account in cases of decisions on the immunity of a judge, the Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman. The proposed amendment to the first paragraph of Article 118 means that the applicant may withdraw the proposal from the legislative procedure or replace it by the beginning of the first reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly or by the beginning of the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the home working body, it shall be said that he will, as a rule, be familiar with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the amendments tabled and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as we have also actively participated in these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. It's mag. Mr Bojana Muršič, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we are considering today, brings two important substantive solutions. The first relates to amendments to the Rules of Procedure concerning the immunity of Members. The Rules of Procedure will provide for two separate procedures, the so-called preliminary or subsequent decision-making procedure of the National Assembly on Member's immunity. Depending on whether or not the request of the competent authority for the authorisation of detention or the authorisation of the initiation of a criminal procedure will be made, or whether it will be a notification to the competent authority of the detention or initiation of a criminal procedure. Procedures relating to the immunity of Members will be streamlined in such a way as to ensure that the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the National Assembly decide on such matters on an up-to-date basis, but only in cases where this will be urgently necessary and meaningful under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure; not in all cases, as has been the case so far. The new regulation of the Member's immunity procedure will also apply mutatis mutandis in certain business arrangements in any decision-making procedure on the immunity of the judge and the Ombudsman or his deputy. However, the second amendment of the Rules of Procedure allows the bill-holder to withdraw or replace it by a new proposal until the first reading of the legislative proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly or the second reading of the legal proposal at the meeting of the home working body, of course, on condition that it has not previously been discussed in a general discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly. The purpose of this amendment is, in particular, to allow the drafter of the law to withdraw or replace the text even after a meeting of the National Assembly or the meeting of the home working body has already been convened, at which the proposal for a law is to be considered, and subsequently, significant substantive comments have been made to it and cannot be taken into account or taken into account in sufficient consideration by the possible additions to the article of the law. Therefore, the drafter will have the opportunity to withdraw the proposal from the legislative procedure or replace it with a new proposal which will, of course, contain appropriate solutions or answers to previously expressed comments. We consider the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Group of Social Democrats to be useful and necessary and will therefore give them unanimous support. It is, however, a fact that in the near future we are still facing some urgent changes to the Rules of Procedure, not least as regards the procedure for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law, which the Constitutional Court has recently decided is not in accordance with the principle of the division of power and the principle of the independence of judges, so it is also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Vice President. If we start maybe with the genetics of this proposal. The Rules of Procedure Commission has recently set up a working group to resolve the issue of immunity, which is what colleague Starović initially pointed out on behalf of the proposer. This working group very quickly endorsed or agreed to these amendments, and this was also intended to resolve the issue of immunity with the new Rules of Procedure. However, on a proposal from someone, this article also came into this paper about early withdrawal or the replacement of the law with which we have problems in Levica, so we did not sign this new Rules of Procedure. To whom is the Institute intended to withdraw the bill from the procedure? I'm mostly in charge. I'm not talking about this government, I'm not talking about the previous government, I'm talking about any government, I'm talking about the future, if you want. Each government has so far sent a law to the National Assembly that could not be corrected by amendments. The fate of these laws was that they were kept in drawers, as they were called. This is problematic with several aspects. The first one is purely from the National Assembly. The law that comes into the National Assembly, which is bad, of course, every parliamentary group reads it, processes it, tries to correct it with amendments, but prepares it for this law. We're going to come up with a situation where there's going to be another treatment on the parent's working body, and the government is going to say, okay, well, now we're not going to go through with this, we're going to take this away. All the work of Members, experts and civil servants of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service, the others went to nothing at this time. This is a burden for the National Assembly. Worse still, the government would replace such a law with a completely different text. We would be in a situation where we should be preparing amendments to the Committee's amendments in some very short time and, in fact, under some time pressure, trying to verify this amended law. With all the machinery available to governments, from legal services in ministries to government law enforcement, the question is, of course, why do such laws ever occur? How can one government send to the National Assembly a law that is bad according to its own estimates and then, of course, according to estimates of a national assembly that cannot be repaired? Why do we come to such situations? The other thing about this question is – What is public treatment for? Public treatment is an instrument which, of course, should help the government write laws first of all, while the professional public makes specific comments and proposals first of all. But unfortunately, public opinion – and again not only of this government, but of all governments so far – is being used too often and also abused. When suggestions are made to the article, it often happens that a law that is substantially different from the one that was under public scrutiny comes into the national assembly. The excuse that this mechanism should be introduced so that the law can be withdrawn by the beginning of the hearing is, in my opinion, inappropriate, because we have some basic democratic mechanism to get rid of such a law, that is simply to vote against. Not that every time a government and, of course, a ruling coalition does not want to vote against government law. Or a business mechanism to vote that such a law is not suitable for further consideration. And thus the matter is resolved, the legislative procedure is unabated and the law can be amended or sent a new bill. We have seen many times that, rather than using these business and democratic mechanisms, we have seen the majority decide each time that this law, in one way or another, will, of course, get off the agenda and table and then grow there until the end of the mandate or the term of office of the National Assembly, because, of course, it falls automatically. From this point of view, since this article on the withdrawal or replacement of the proposal is in this new Rules of Procedure, we cannot support this amendment in Levica, but we certainly support this solution in terms of immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The proposal allows the applicant to withdraw the draft law from the legislative procedure or replace it with a new proposal until the second reading of the draft law takes place at the meeting of the home working body or before the first reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly in the event of a general discussion. After the regulation has been in force, this can only be done until the draft law has been adopted on the basis of a meeting of the National Assembly or of the national working body. The Draft Amendments and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also provide for arrangements concerning parliamentary immunity. The Constitution distinguishes between two forms of procedural parliamentary immunity. Member States shall ensure that the law of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the European Union and the Member States of the Member States of the European Union and the Member States of the European Union of the Member States of the European Union, of the one part, is implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Article. And parliamentary immunity, in which prosecution can proceed smoothly, and the National Assembly can later recognise immunity and thereby prevent the flow of persecution. Perhaps it is the subsequent decision of the National Assembly on immunity after the start of the persecution. For worse crimes which are punishable by a prison sentence of more than 5 years and for all cases where the Member does not invoke immunity. Due to different flows in both forms of procedural immunity, the procedure for both forms of procedure should also be set up differently and separately in the Rules of Procedure. The novelty is mainly a new procedure for the subsequent decision of the National Assembly on immunity. Presentation of recast procedures, first case, preliminary ruling of the National Assembly on immunity. The competent State authority shall send an application for the authorisation of detention or for the authorisation of the commencement of criminal proceedings to the President of the National Assembly. The President shall transmit this to the Mandate-Matrimonial Commission. The mandate-holder committee may propose to the National Assembly whether or not to grant immunity. As a rule, the recognition of immunity may be considered necessary for the exercise of a Member's function in the event that the competent national authority intends to bring a Member into custody or when it has already detained him, but not in the event that it intends to initiate a criminal procedure against him or when he has already begun. The same Rules of Procedure already apply. And the final decision is taken by the National Assembly. And another case, the subsequent immunity decision. The competent State authority shall send to the President of the National Assembly a notification of the detention or initiation of a criminal procedure. The President shall transmit this to the Mandate-Matrimonial Commission. The President of the National Assembly shall inform the parliamentary group whose member is the Member to which the notification relates. The President of the National Assembly or the parliamentary group of which the Member is a member may request that this notice be examined by the National Assembly. The MVK may propose to the National Assembly that immunity be granted subsequently or not. As a rule, recognition of immunity may be deemed necessary for the exercise of a Member's function in the event that the competent national authority intends to arrest or has already detained a Member, but not in the event that it intends to initiate a criminal procedure against him or when he has already begun. The same Rules of Procedure already apply. The final decision shall be taken by the National Assembly. If the National Assembly subsequently recognises the immunity of a Member, the criminal procedure shall no longer be brought against him or a detained Member shall immediately be released. And a temporary decision in case of immediate effect. In any event, the mandate-holder commission will be able to decide immediately in any event on the recognition of immunity from detention at the time of the request for detention. This was possible only after the regulation had been drawn up so far in the event that the Member had already been detained. The decision, as it has been so far, is effective immediately, and the National Assembly can change it later. In view of the different nature of both forms of procedural immunity, it is appropriate to separate the procedure for each of them. This will lead to a clearer and more predictable procedure in each case. The amendment extending the deadline within which the withdrawal of the bill is possible reduces the important administrative burden within the legislative procedure and consequently bureaucraticly facilitates the work of the National Assembly. We will therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the Commission has not adopted any amendments to the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading. The decision on the proposal for amendments and the update of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be made tomorrow in accordance with the meeting's timetable, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Holidays and Free Days Act in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of three Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. The bill is being proposed at the 29th session of the 4th session. 5. 2021 considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after its final consideration, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First, he gets the word Yuri Lepo, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, nice greetings again! In the Slovenian National Party Group, they proposed to introduce as a national holiday the first encounter with the aggressor on Slovenian soil on May 13th. It would be remembered on May 13, 1941, when the three leading tigers in Mali Gora at Ribnica faced the Italian army. We oppose this proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We believe that it is neither justified nor supported by historical evidence, since it does not correspond to the findings of the historical profession. If so, we find it more appropriate to mark September 6, 1930, when four base heroes fell in Bazovica. These were the first collective victims in an unequal fight against fascism. This event can symbolically link the resistance to fascism and its victims, in which then free Europe was fully aware of the fascist dangers and the necessity of a determined and related fight to eradicate it. We are aware of the historical significance of the TIGR in the Group of Non-Related Members, but we should reach a broad consensus on the date of the holiday dedicated to this organisation with the aim of not re-entering the holiday, and this should also be the case with the historical profession. At the same time, we are opposed to the fact that so far the emptiness of the unmarked conflict on Mali Mountain, from which it took exactly 80 years, has been exploited by some who do not care how the historical facts unfolded later. On 13 May 1941, it was actually an attack by domestics against Slovenian rebels against the invader. This cannot possibly have the quality and marking of a public holiday. This was not even the day of the first armed conflict with the invader on Slovenian soil, since the old Yugoslav army had resisted before this invader. That is why we believe that this is the wrong proposed date, which is aimed primarily at reshaping history and degrading and reducing the importance of the Liberation Front and the anti-fascist fight in Slovenia. A proposed holiday would create controversy over the holiday on April 27th, when we celebrate the day of rebellion against the invader. Some prominent representatives of our country have not even attended this year’s central state celebration at Mali Gora nad Ribnica, due to such government attempts to change or create a half-lived history. No representatives of the Association of Fighters for the values of NOB were invited to the national celebration, so that the celebration did not pay due respect to those who made a decisive contribution to the victory of World War II on our soil. Not a single word about the Liberation Front was heard at the celebration. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we advocate the preservation of the importance of the liberation partisan struggle, which has brought us peace, brought us freedom, brought us solidarity, and also provided the basis for the establishment of our country in which we live today. But we are opposed to any attempt to make history. A nation that does not respect its history has no future. Only a knowledge of our own history, of its good and bad wages can be the foundation of a kind and respectful society and of the future, which will not burden all of us, especially the younger generations, with divisions. Today, we face different challenges and other dangers that require each day to judge what is right and what is wrong. In doing so, it is important for the right decision to realize that we must pursue the objectives and policies that place a stake on the long-term stability and well-being of citizens, protect our fundamental rights and freedoms and strengthen Slovenia's reputation in the international community. We are therefore convinced that today is the time for the unification of the Slovenian nation, which must unite all citizens who do not care where this country goes, who do not care where this world goes, who do not care where it leads us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Nice greetings to all present! TIGR is the first anti-fascist organization in the world. The TIGR shortcut means Trieste, Istria, Gorica, River. TIGR combined anti-fascist fighters in the territory of the entire country of Primorska, from Bovec to the last coastal island, to Lošinj. In 1927, anti-fascists gathered in this territory and established an organization of TIGR, which brought together Slovenian patriots who didn't care that Italian fascist boots hit our people. The TIGR was founded on Nanos in 1927. It should be said that on 13 May 1941, the first weapon resisted Italian fascists, at Mali Gora near Ribnica. To date, 80 years after this event, which we want to mark as a state holiday, TIGR has to date had no place in Slovenian history. The fact is that TIGR does not separate or exclude. TIGR brings together all Slovenes who have something to do with Slovenian history, until we can be proud of 13 May when the tiger first resisted the fascists. I think it's a symbol of patriotism, and it's a symbol we can't forget. Many tigers joined the national liberation fight and participated in it, but the organization was erased from Slovenian memory. It is sad that once a Slovenian nation wanted to share, and it is sad that some want to share the Slovenian nation now. It must be said, however, that our proposal pursues the goal of not working a day off, that the economy will not be burdened in any way. It's just symbolism, and there's no desire here to reduce the significance of national liberation in any way. We have to do something to the Slovenians once and for all, and accept a date as a holiday that will raise our level. But we are saddened that the historians of TIGR speak only biasedly. Instead of being proud of what we have, which there is no other nation in Europe; and taking a step towards an objective historical fact, they want to walk through such bright moments of our history. Since the law on the working body was not confirmed, it revealed who values Slovenian history, who is proud of the action of TIGR, who is one who is not ashamed of Slovenian history.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Holidays and Working Days, which was discussed on the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the Disabled. The proposal is intended to mark the first conflict with the invader in the territory of Slovenia, which took place on 13 May 1941 in Mali Gora near Ribnica between the fascists and the then leading representatives of TIGR. The proposal is based on historical truth, and the event was a major step in the efforts of the Slovenians to achieve autonomy, so it still deserves to be placed among the national holidays. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we always put symbols and marks that unite together, and so is the TIGR. On the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have listened to the ideology of those who constantly oppose historical truth and have tried to adapt, subjugate or even build their political capital in every way possible. This is unacceptable and shares our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not agree to such a discourse, and we repeatedly point out that the historical truth cannot be adapted or modified; and its interpretation is within the competence of historians and in no way certain political groups, who still hope to maintain their privileged position in our society and to continue to share our citizens and citizens, on the basis of an ideological approach. It is important to be aware that history is an integral part of our society, our everyday culture, so it must be remembered, while building our future on points that connect us and do not share. We have our own country, we are pleased with the country of Slovenia; and we still have a great deal of work to do to build it, to value it, and to do better together. If everyone to whom people trusted their voice were aware of the valuables of their own country, they would leave historical facts to historians and we would unite in the future with their symbols, such as the Slovenian flag, the Slovenian coat of arms, the Slovenian anthem and the independent state of the Republic of Slovenia. TIGR is an organization that shares no one, links us and unites us because of its historical facts and is an important milestone in our past history. That is why we have also supported the draft law on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. It's mag. Marko Koprivc, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! As far as the holidays are concerned, in a way it would be right for the holidays to be the ones that unite. And when they are re-set, accepted, it is right to have the widest consensus on the eligibility of a particular holiday, namely between citizens and citizens, between the professional public, between politics and, above all, between those whom this holiday is most tantamount to in some way. In this specific attempt to create a new holiday, which was supposed to be the holiday of TIGR, although it was not supported by the TIGR itself, none of this was true of course. But it was one very clear intention. It was an attempt by a wider government coalition – the first to be signed were representatives of the SNS party, whom we know to support – in some way to destroy or change the historical facts, to change the role of the Liberation Front and the national liberation struggle in the fight against Nazism and fascism, which we know to be one of the greatest evils of this humanity. They simply tried to change the history of the Republic of Slovenia. They do that all the time. It's just one of the experiments. Of course we can't do that and we can't land. What is most absurd, I repeat once again, for myself and our party to the organization TIGR attaches very great importance to the fight against fascism, but, dear colleagues, the TIGR itself was of the opinion that this date is not appropriate to mark this organisation, that it is in fact a historically inaccurate date, that it is not a date that would have any significant impact on the resistance to fascism and Nazism. It's clear what your purpose was, my dear colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, the elimination of the significance of the national liberation struggle and the partisan struggle. The same year – just why – you miraculously also organized a celebration at Mali Gora on the anniversary of the Liberation Front, a celebration where partisan banners were not to be cried out, where the Union of Fighters was not invited; a celebration where you did not mention in word who was responsible for the liberation of the Republic of Slovenia over Nazism. Fortunately, in the National Assembly, the committee was overpowered by reason and, of course, such provocation did not receive the necessary majority. However, this review of history is a matter of great concern. The same way you work for 1941-1945, you work for 1991. Citizens and citizens received an extremely politically motivated brochure for tax money days ago in the mailboxes, where you display an extremely biased brochure in 1991 and attribute the importance of self-reliance only to friends of Ivan Janez Janša, which is historically inaccurate and unacceptable. Social Democrats will also fight for the future for historical truth, we will fight to maintain the values of antifascism and antifascism as one of the foundations of Slovenian statehood, and we will not agree that collaboration will be equal to rebellion. It's not, and it never will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thanks again, Vice President. As a Primorec, I was, on the one hand, happy and sad when I saw that this marriage was put into procedure. I am glad that finally in an act in this National Assembly, the organization TIGR was mentioned. It was sad when I went to read the law. The law stipulated that, fortunately, he was refused to sit on the committee as a day to mark the organisation of TIGR in our country on 13 May. The source of this 13 May must be found in the Slovenian extreme right, which has been using this date for many years, which has also been set up by some TIGR satellite company – May 13 – while we have already been practically since the independence of the existing TIGR Primorska company, which is responsible for maintaining the values and memories of the TIGR organization – which started with some transparent action of sharing people; what they have been doing all along in the SDS party. This date and the establishment of a society that would otherwise defend the values of TIGR, but actually have another purpose, they want to do something to make the Liberation Front, the National Liberation Fight and the Partisan Movement appear to be some front that was on the wrong side of history in our country, and that on the other side was the organization of TIGR, which was the first to fight fascism, which is true, and then, during World War II, exactly the Liberation Front, was uprooted and literally destroyed, which is a huge lie and also a distortion of history. A large part of the members of the TIGR joined the Partisans during World War II in Slovenia, joined the national liberation fight and fought together against Nazism and Fascism on our soil. Why this proposal has been suspicious since the beginning is that, in fact, the President of the Government, not only as the President of the Government, but also as a private person, has been promoting this very 13 May on his social networks for a long time. Last year he went personally to mark May 13th on Little Mountain. This year, however, we saw that even a state celebration on the day of rebellion against the invader or on the day of OF was in some way dedicated to this 13th of May; without mentioning a single word of the Liberation Front and, of course, allowing the fighters who are still alive or who keep their memories of those times to have access to this celebration. We have to deal with our ears because our President of the Government is the one who, without reservation, is fraternising with non-fascists across Europe, with Salvini at the head, if you want, and so on. And the sincere purpose of this proposal was proposed in the Slovenian National Party, which is a supporter of this government, all these sincere purposes, which Mr Jelinčič was talking about, were very clear on the water, because it was obvious that this was another purpose in the background. Why this is another purpose and why this date is wrong, many historians on the committee, historians who, according to the profession of historians, explained that in those years of 13 May, Tiger was practically in the last breaths. Remember that TIGR began operating in the early 20s and fought against the fascist twentieth practically from the beginning to the end. There is, of course, no mention that anyone is opposed to labeling TIGR as an organisation, an institution that would deserve a state holiday in this country, but, of course, on the right date and not for secret purposes. Not by distorting history, not by meddling with half-time history, not with the secret purpose of defiance of other actors, who, of course, have enabled our country to be liberated in the latest outbreaks of World War II. We didn't support this marriage on the Left. However, we will absolutely support the law, which will establish a state holiday to commemorate the TIGR, which will be on an appropriate date. This can be, as already mentioned by colleague Lepo, a memory of Bazovica or, say, the date of the establishment of the TIGR on Nanos.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. On 13 May 2021 we celebrated the 80th anniversary of the first armed conflict with the invader on Slovenian soil. In 1941, the tigers in Mali Gora at Ribnica faced Italian fascists. The organization TIGR – named after the beginnings of Trieste, Istria, Gorica, Rijeka – was formed in September 1927 to resist Italian fascist oppression. Among other things, tigers organized a wide-ranging intelligence network in Primorska prior to the war, and collected information was sent to the intelligence centre of the Drava Division in Ljubljana and later to the British Intelligence Service. Even so, and the fact that they were involved in the war in the OF, the communist Februarys had already looked at them with considerable mistrust, which had only increased since the war. Tigers were pushed to the side track and removed from the collective memory, making it necessary to wait until 1991 for the first marking of the Battle of Mali and the official ceremony until 2005. The amendment of the law proposed a new State holiday, May 13 – the day of the first conflict with the invader on Slovenian soil, which would not be a day off. In Slovenia we already have several national holidays, where we are reminded of various historical events that were more or less important in our past. The first armed conflict with the occupier is one of the important events in the history of our people, so we have supported the amendment of the law on the parental committee, but unfortunately the proposal has not received sufficient support. Unfortunately, such a new State holiday will not be celebrated and these events will be commemorated. It is certainly right not to forget our history and learn something from it, not to repeat the same mistakes that have already been made, but to have a history as a teacher of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say good-bye again! On 13 May, the SNS Group tabled a proposal for a novel in the National Assembly to celebrate as a national holiday of the first encounter with the aggressor on Slovenian soil. On May 13, 1941, the three leading tigers in Mali Gora at Ribnica faced the Italian army. According to the applicant, the fight in Mali Gora took place for the first time with the invader on Slovenian territory in World War II. One of the tigers was killed in it, and two of them were captured. At the same time, the commemoration of the conflict with the State holiday would also honor the memory of the anti-fascist, patriotic organization of TIGR, whose leaders had acquired co-thinkers against the occupation authority prior to the conflict in the Ribnica area and the holiday would not be a day off. In the SAB Group, we join the opinion of the president of TIGR Primorska, who has expressed many concerns that the bill is not backed by historical evidence and that the organisation of TIGR and its operation would be more useful to honour so that the entire duration of its operation, its anti-fascist struggle, from its establishment to World War II, would be meaningful. He also said that on 13 May 1941, a member of the Bureau of the NOB Fighter Association was not the day of the first armed conflict with the invader on Slovenian soil, that the King's army had already resisted the occupying party and that on 13 May, the date was wrongly proposed, as it created controversy over the holiday on 27 April. In the SAB Group, we are well aware of the importance of the operation of the TIGR, but the holidays are to unite and unite us as a nation, not to separate us. That is why we have not supported the proposals of the novel on the parental committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on cross-border enforcement of services within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mateja Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! The proposal before you today was prepared due to the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to transpose Directive 2018/957/EU into the national legal order. The key solutions transmitted by the proposal are the principle of applying the same rules on payment for the work performed by posted workers, as is the case for local workers in accordance with legislation and universal collective agreements at the level of the country of deployment, the time limit on long-term posting periods and the obligation to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment where cross-border services are provided by posted workers employed by the employer for the provision of work. In addition to the transposition of that Directive, the proposal contains some corrections resulting from a preliminary assessment by the European Commission of the Slovenian national measures for the transposition of Directive 2014/67 on the posting of workers in the framework of the performance. The proposal to amend the law before you today thus represents only the transposition of Directive 2018/957/EU and thus the fulfilment of the obligations that Slovenia, as a Member State, has to the European Commission. In addition to the implementation of the Directive into the national legal order, we have also removed disproportionate measures that we have been alerted to by the European Commission. Thus, the legislative material does not contain substantive changes beyond the provisions of the Directive and the previous assessment by the European Commission. As part of the drafting of the amendments to the law, we have received calls for further areas that go beyond simply the transposition of the directive into the national legal order. The law itself will therefore continue to be the subject of further negotiations and consideration within the negotiating group established for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a mother's work, and I give the floor to Mr Marijan Pojbic, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Cross-border Implementation of Services, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure and endorsed by the College. The committee was attended by a representative of the proposer, a representative of the State Council and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative said that the proposed law aims to comply with the EU acquis and the representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supported the bill. With regard to the proposed time limit for cross-border service delivery, the Commission points out that such time constraints may also lead to significant implementation problems, particularly in the case of longer-term procedures, such as the construction of a second track, an individual development axis or a larger investment, etc., and in relation to specific and more difficult accessible services requiring the involvement of a specialised staff. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made in the amendments tabled from Article 1 to 6 had been duly corrected, but that the wrong references in Articles 23 and 25 could not be remedied due to business determinations. In a short discussion, it was pointed out that the amendment is a technical law that brings certain directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into our legal order. At the same time, the question was raised as to why the novelty was only 14 days in public treatment, why it was not coordinated with the unions and what changes were envisaged in three key areas, namely the situation of drivers in international transport, certification procedures A and changes in cross-border service delivery. The Secretary of State said that the Government has prepared an amendment following a reduced procedure for the necessity of transposition of the directive and therefore there are no other amendments since the negotiations have not come so far. As regards the other content which was the subject of the negotiations, she did not want to be identified in advance. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. A complementary proposal is in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word again, Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here, you will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Cross-border Implementation of Services submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. By transposing Directive 2018/957/EU, the Republic of Slovenia also follows the objectives of the EU, which aim to mitigate the consequences of the different arrangements in national legislation in the field of ensuring the basic working conditions for the performance of the work of posted workers, which often results in an increase in the risk of social dumping and consequently distorts the proper functioning of businesses in the EU internal market. By transposing the abovementioned Directive by amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cross-border Service Implementation and the Amendment of the ZDR, the Slovenian legislation provides: the principle of the application of the same rules as regards payment for the work performed by posted workers, as applicable for local workers in accordance with the laws and general agreements applicable to collective agreements at the level of the country of dispatch; the time-limit for the limitation of long-term posting periods; the periods of posting in the case of the replacement of workers for the same workplace; the obligation to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment in the event of excessive service provided by posted workers employed with the employer for the provision of work. As I said in the introductions, we will unanimously confirm the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cross-border Service Implementation Act in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Good afternoon, everyone! With the proposed amendment to the Cross-border Service Implementation Act, the Republic of Slovenia transposes into its national legislation amendments to European rules relating to workers who are assigned to work in another Member State in order to temporarily perform a specific service there. At European Union level, the rules on posted workers have changed in order to ensure an appropriate balance between workers' rights and the freedom to provide services in another Member State of the European Union. These amendments also seek to counter abuse, such as social dumping, which is a practice in which different rules apply to different categories of workers in salaries and in paying social contributions, resulting in unfair competition at the expense of workers' rights. The general objective of the new rules is thus to ensure equal pay for the work carried out by posted workers, as is the case for local workers, in accordance with the legislation and general collective agreements of the Member State to which the worker has been posted; it is required to respect the equal treatment of all workers even when an agency worker is posted to another Member State. In addition, the amendment of the law also amends those parts of the legislation which the European Commission, in its preliminary assessment of the transposition of the Directive, has assessed as disproportionate to the requirements of the Directive. The European Commission has drawn Slovenia's attention to the excessive administrative burden of foreign service providers in Slovenia on the application of the start-up of services, in particular in relation to the requested information on the service provider's contact person and the information on the service provider's service provider, as the European Commission estimates that they are unnecessary in the service application process. It also amends the rules relating to the requirements for the submission of working legal documentation translated into Slovenian, as it is already possible for the Labour Inspectorate to have access to translations of foreign documentation through the Internal Market Information System. We are aware that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to the transposition of European rules into national legislation in the field of cross-border service delivery, so we will not oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The next one should be the Left Party, but I do not see a representative presenting the position. That is why we continue with Mrs Tadejo Šuštar, and will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the Cross-border Service Implementation Act transposes the European Directive into Slovenian legislation. The amendments provide for the application of the same rules for the payment of posted workers as are applicable to local workers under Slovenian legislation and collective agreements. In full, the Institute of Payment for Work and not only the concept of minimum hourly items shall apply and employers must also take into account the provisions governing working time, rest and rest, night work, minimum annual leave, safety and health at work, special protection of workers and ensuring equality. It is important to regulate the time limit for long-term posting periods, where the periods of posting in the case of replacements for the provision of similar services at the same place of work are aggregated. For example, the duration of posting shall be limited to 12 months with the possibility of extension to 18 months. However, if the actual duration of the assignment exceeds 12 and 18 months, the employer must grant the same rights to the employer under the rules governing the employment relationship or in accordance with collective agreements for the activity. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support a single European internal market and the opening of markets. The Slovenian export economy is the pillar of our economy. Our country benefits from open markets, the European Economic and Monetary Union and the free movement of goods, services and capital. Free and fair trade enables all to cooperate in creating values and to help reduce poverty. We will only be able to provide prosperity in the future through European and global economic cooperation, while we are aware that open markets bring us the need for internal regulation and practice that will be comparable to those of the countries participating in these markets. The strong economy means more resources and less social problems. We support European standards for the protection of workers' rights. Workers must receive a fair pay for their work, and their employment must provide them with an adequate level of security and stability. We support collective agreements as an important legal source and social dialogue as a form of cooperation and communication, dispute resolution. We are working to remove bureaucratic barriers to finding different employment opportunities. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Cross-border Service Implementation Act is to comply with European legislation, which is to amend the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services. The Directive contains urgent changes relating to the establishment of an appropriate balance between the need to promote freedom to provide services and to ensure a level playing field and the need to protect the rights of posted workers to work in another Member State of the European Union. The implementation of that Directive provides for the principle of the application of the same payment rules for posted workers as is the case for local workers in accordance with the legislation and generally applicable collective agreements at the level of the country of dispatch. It also regulates relations between Slovenia and foreign service providers who work with us for the Slovenian employer. However, Slovenian companies in other European countries, with their posted workers under the Directive, will also have to comply with the labour rules and standards in those same countries. In view of the unsatisfactory and often inadequate application of common rules in the Member States, the proposal itself also followed the necessary amendments we are considering today, following the adoption and transposition of the implementing and basic Directives. The basic guide of the changes is the abolition of social or wage dumping, which is made possible at European Union level by different national arrangements in individual Member States. The amendment in question introduces additional conditions on the basis of which the user may provide services to workers who have been sent to him on the basis of an agreement with the employer for the provision of work. These are provisions resulting from respect for the principle of equal treatment when cross-border services are provided by posted workers employed by the employer for the provision of work. There should be no dilemma as to who the posted workers are. It is the workers who are employed by the employer to provide work. They are deemed to have been directed to the place of work by their employer and not by the company user who actually provides the service for the contracting authority in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment also regulates the situation of posted workers in the Republic of Slovenia who are posted to temporary employment by a foreign employer under a contract of employment concluded under foreign law. Thus, the Institute of Payment for Work and not just the concept of minimum hourly items shall apply to posted workers. The scope of labour legislation is also extended to workers who are referred to users by employers to provide work in the context of cross-border service delivery. Cases shall also be regulated where the actual duration of the referral exceeds 12 months and 18 months in the event of an extension in accordance with the rules governing the cross-border provision of services. In such cases, the employer will have to grant the worker rights under the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia governing the employment relationship and under the provisions of the collective agreement at the level of activity, if this is more favourable for the worker. The posting of an employee shall normally be limited to 12 months but may be extended to 18 months only on the basis of a reasoned request. It is a matter of time-limiting long-term posting periods, with the periods of posting, when it comes to the posting of workers for the provision of similar services at the same workplace, being summed up. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the solutions are appropriate, and we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Vojko Starović, who will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello again. Your Honor! One of the legal areas in which we all meet in different roles is labour law. The way the state regulates it is very important because it regulates conflicting interests. On the one hand, the employer's interests, on the other hand, the worker's interest. Since the first is superior to the second, the protection of the rights of the worker has been shaped as a fundamental principle of labour law, in particular with a view to balancing the power between the employer and the worker. Over the years, various international organisations have emerged and resolutions and standards have been adopted setting the minimum level of workers' rights to be taken into account by countries in the drafting of their national legislation. And if, at this level, working relationships in Europe are largely fairly equitable, the fundamental principles of uniformity are increasingly difficult to achieve at this level of cross-border service flows. One of the institutes set up at EU level is the legal institute for the posting of workers designed to facilitate the movement of services on the one hand and to ensure the protection of workers' rights on the other. This is a compromise between the provisions on free movement of services and social security and between EU-level regulation and national arrangements of individual countries. The draft law before us thus introduces the transposition of the EU Directive, harmonising the effects of different national legislation on working conditions for the performance of posted workers. Its transposition into national law provides, according to the applicant, the principle of applying the same rules regarding payment for the work performed by posted workers, as is the case for local workers in accordance with the laws and general collective agreements at the level of the country of destination. The relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and foreign service providers in the Republic of Slovenia is therefore being regulated, while Slovenian companies in other European countries will also have to comply with the labour rules and standards in those countries. The proposal also provides for mandatory compliance with the principle of equal treatment in cases where cross-border services are provided by so-called agency workers, with the current minimum standards being replaced by standards in accordance with the legislation and collective agreements in force at the level of the Member State in which the services are provided. The new arrangement also foresees that posted workers are employed all the time with the employer and not with the company that provides the service for the contracting authority in the Republic of Slovenia. We have no major concerns in the SAB Group on the transposition of the directive, so we will support the bill. In doing so, we draw attention to open questions. The Economic and Social Council negotiating group failed to agree on a provision that would take into account the salaries received abroad as a basis for the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Currently it is considered to be the basis of the salary that would be paid for the same work in Slovenia, which is often significantly lower than the actual payment received. This dilemma should not hang in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The purpose of the legal amendment is to harmonise the arrangements for the cross-border provision of services and consequently to protect our workers who work for our business entity across borders, or for foreign and our workers who work through foreign business entities in our country, i.e. in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, with European legislation. Member States note that the freedom to provide services and the free movement of persons and the free movement of capital also require respect for the rules of equal treatment of workers and competition rules. The latter is provided through the adopted new Directive of the European Union and consequently through the transposition into national legislation. At the same time, they want to mitigate the consequences of different regulations in national legislation in the field of providing basic working conditions for the performance of posted workers. In view of the content of the directive, the amendment of the law introduces into our legal order the principle of applying the same rules regarding payment for the work carried out by posted workers, as is the case for local workers in accordance with the laws and general collective agreements at the level of the country of destination. The duration of the posting period shall be limited for a period of time, where the periods of assignment in the case of replacement of workers for the provision of the same type of services in the same place of employment are summed up. The additional novelty focuses on greater protection of so-called agency workers and also eliminates excessive administrative burdens on certain data that have proved unnecessary. We have no comments on the content of the news in the Desus Group, so we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Friday, 9 July, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal of the arms law on amendments and additions to the arms law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr Bož Zadalič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The law that you will make today or tomorrow has a long beard. It began after the adoption of the European Directive in 2017. As soon as it began to prepare, there were, of course, many different views and interests, so that it dragged all the way there until 2019, when Minister Poklukar succeeded in preparing the law to such an extent that it was accepted by the Government and that it was dealt with in the first reading and adopted in the National Assembly. This draft was, of course, followed by several amendments, and a public presentation of the opinions was also made. On this basis and after the Committee's decision, we have today a proposal to decide on. Although several amendments have been tabled on this proposal, to which I would define later in the examination, I would say that I hope to state that this is one of the few laws which has so wide public participation in the process of production, professional and lay public opinion, it has been a public presentation. I think that the law that is on the table today has somehow covered this opportunity to comply with the European Directive, while allowing all interested groups still sufficient room for manoeuvre to carry out their activities and activities. The fundamental objectives that we want to achieve through the proposal for a law are the transposition of the Procurement and Arms Control Directive into the national legal order. This Directive was adopted in 2017, as I have already said, and Slovenia is threatened with drastic penalties because it has not yet implemented the law. So far, we've apologized for covid-19, and now we probably won't have this option anymore. It also introduces changes in the implementation of the Regulation relating to export control, transit and import of weapons into third countries, while at the same time aligning the law with other Slovenian legislation adopted after the adoption of the applicable law and correcting certain uncertainties and inconsistencies in this law. If I can list some major solutions. It regulates the new categorisation of weapons or changes in categorisation, which is in accordance with the European Directive, complements the definitions of individual terms and redefines the terms among which it would specifically highlight the following. The concept of long-term firearms is aligned with the concept defined in the Weapons Directive, the designation of gas-signalling weapons is transformed into gas weapons, the definition of the concept of gas weapons is changed, the definition of the concept of firearms and blind weapons is defined more clearly, and the definition of essential components of weapons is changed as in the current Weapons Act. The sound suppressors no longer belong to special weapons equipment, which means that sportsmen, hunters, will be able to use them at gunpoints, as it is probably known that there are major conflicts between sports and military shootings and the surrounding population. The use of silencers will significantly reduce these conflicts while reducing noise pollution. With this we will join the 17 European countries that have already introduced silencers and all have positive experiences. The concept of a museum is consistent with the concept set out in the Arms Directive, and the obligations of the administrative unit are laid down to verify that holders of arms documents are required to comply with certain conditions every five years; it provides for an exception to show the legitimate reason for issuing a security weapons instrument to individuals carrying professional weapons in accordance with the rules governing the carrying of weapons in public authorities, that is to say the police, the military, Owa and similar, where the nature of the work poses a real risk of danger even outside the working time or even after the end of the working relationship. To persons authorised to collect weapons, the law also allows these weapons to be displayed to the general public, of course in appropriate premises and in a way that cannot be alienated. More clearly, the legal basis for the issue and withdrawal of licences for gun-handling training providers is laid down, setting out more clearly the rights relating to the transfer, possession and possession of weapons, the placing of weapons in use and the lending of weapons. It foresees that a member of a shooting organisation can also use his sports gun mentor as long as the shooting exercises and competitions on the shooting range are ongoing; this compares with the status of the hunters. It lays down a period of five years in which it is mandatory for holders of existing arms instruments to apply for the classification of weapons in the relevant categories as required by the Directive and this Act and provides for the legalisation of weapons. This seems very important to us, because in the interest of every country and in the interest of security it is that every piece, up to the last piece of weapon located in the territory of Slovenia, is written down, registered to know where it is. Countering legalisation [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to finish because you have exceeded the opening presentation for more than a minute. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you. The President, I also propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Third Party, the draft law be discussed at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held a general debate on the draft law at its 14th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 7 July. Because the amendments are a parliamentary group [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Excuse me, Mr. President Mag. Grimes. Of course, before that, a report from the Committee, which, as a working parent, dealt with the proposal of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! At its 24th meeting, on 16 June 2021, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Weapons Act as a working body. He did so after an extremely long and extensive public debate, which was also the result of the fact that the law had been drawn up by the previous government, then the competent committee of the National Assembly adopted the decision to make a public presentation of the opinions, but because of the pandemic then it was simply not possible. We did so as soon as possible, and by then we had already collected written comments from as many as 32 interested associations or organisations, and then also made a public presentation on this basis. Public presentations of opinions were attended by all those invited and unanimously expressed the desire that the proposed law be amended to save Slovenian sport. Because in fact, when we talk about this law, we are talking about Slovenian sport. Why are we even dealing with this marriage? Because the European Parliament has adopted a directive that appears to raise security, but what is really dangerous, and this is an illegal weapon, a weapon that is being smuggled into the black market, this directive does not touch at all. It intervenes in sports weapons, in a way that, if all of them were to accept uncritically and not seek a variant or compromise, would mean that something of the kind of Slovenian shooting sport would virtually shut down. I would like to point out, however, that Slovenia's shooting sport has achieved exceptional success in the lead with Debevec, the winner of the Olympics, and many others who have won international competitions and in the framework of national and other championships of exceptional success. In order to continue this way, on this basis, we have drawn up a law on this basis on the basis of this public presentation of opinions and comments already made by the previously interested sports associations, the Olympic Committees twice, and then the various organisations that are being touched have adopted a large number of amendments, namely the 30 amendments proposed by the coalition, the three amendments proposed by the Slovenian National Party and one amendment by the Committee to the 22nd Article. However, we have not accepted one amendment of the Left to Article 3, the amendments of the SNS Group to Articles 9 and 17 and the proposals for amendments of the Committee to Articles 3 and 11. Finally, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government voted in full and adopted it by 12 votes to two. I hope that, on behalf of all Slovenian sportsmen, I can express the hope that you will also vote on the text of the bill today. It's a Slovenian sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much, mag. Grims. Once again, my apologies for letting you out of the procedure in earnest. I'm sorry. We are now really moving on to the consideration of the amendments, namely the amendment to Articles 3, 4 and 24, and I am also putting a new Article 55a into the debate. Since the amendments of the LMŠ Group to Articles 3, 4 and 24 are substantively linked and since the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 3 and the new Article 55a are also substantively linked, we will discuss all the amendments to that Article together. I therefore put to the debate two amendments from the SDS, NSI and SMC groups and three amendments from the LMŠ groups to Articles 3, 4 and 24 and the amendment for the new 55a. Because it's an interest in the debate, I'm launching a list. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word mag. Branko Grims, prepare Mr. Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposed amendment tabled by the coalition for a simple reason, because it is a technical improvement of the text which was made on the basis of comments made by the legal service. This would address the last of the comments that the legal service has made on the basic law, and many of the amendments we have adopted have already been tabled on the committee. When it comes to this amendment and the law as a whole, it is important to note once again, here we are talking about Slovenian sport. It is about finding a compromise that will be appropriate, allowing us to maintain the entire Slovenian sport. When we talk about Slovenian shooting sport, we need to know something, with the legal weapons of Slovenian shooters, there was no serious crime at the time of independent Slovenia, no serious accident, nothing. There is one river, says the American Marines: Not repairing something that seems to work well. Then why are we even dealing with this marriage? Because in the European Parliament, people who don't know about it were rushing in the period when the worst terrorist attacks by Islamists across Europe made an impression that they wanted to ensure more security. And they got into a sports weapon, which is completely absurd. In Europe, even in other countries, there are extremely few cases of accidents or even crime. What is a source of crime in weapons is illegal weapons, is weapons that are on the black market and are generally involved in military weapons, automatic rifles, machine guns, explosives, which are both strictly prohibited by our legislation and by the European Union's legislation or legal order. In order to preserve Slovenian sport, we are trying to find compromises to the best of our ability. These compromises have been unitedly supported by all those who participated in the public presentation of the opinions from the Olympic Committee to coaches. The last time we had this debate on the committee, we invited them back. Once again, they expressed their support for what was proposed and expressed great satisfaction after the Committee's meeting. So I hope and expect, on behalf of Slovenian sport, that this text will also be preserved and that the three, four necessary improvements will be adopted, which will lead to a legal improvement of the text, but that the compromise which allows this foolishness of the European Parliament to be translated into Slovenian legislation, which binds us and threatens us on top of everything, because the deadline for this has already expired and in fact is that it has been extended solely and exclusively because of the pandemic. If the law is refused or this procedure is substantially extended for any reason, very large fines to be paid by the Republic of Slovenia may occur. The compromise before us allows this not to happen, in the light of the proposal made by the representative of the Government, to be discussed in order to hold a vote and also in the third stage of the hearing already at this meeting. Then, by summer, the law, which must wait for the opinion of the Council of State and everything else provided for in the Slovenian Constitution, will normally be forgotten, but it can still be published before holidays, which means that we will fully meet the expectations and requirements set by the European Union in this area. If we adopt the text as drafted at the meeting of the Committee, we will also maintain Slovenian sport. And that's essential. When we talk about this law, please don't forget, we're talking about Slovenian sport, about that shooting sport that won the Olympics, and let's keep it that way. So that some bureaucratic complications do not cause what is unfortunately already happening with the so-called field target shooting, I can explain another time what it is that because of a change in legislation a few years ago this type of Olympics has virtually died in Slovenia and has already achieved international success. This is therefore to preserve Slovenian sport in order to preserve the opportunity to bear the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in this field as well. And athletes and Slovenia certainly deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Predrag Baković, Mr Igor Peček is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, the Secretary of State has rightly said that this matter has had a beard for a long time and I must say that, personally, at the outset, in the first sentence of this Act, I opposed what is now trying to correct and regulate a little. It's about silencers or sound moderators. I must say, somehow I wasn't convinced by those who had an interest in putting this on the weapon. In the first phase, there were moderators or silencers – I prefer to use the word silencers, because it is better known, although experts warn that it is not classical silencers, I must also say this, but it is only to partially reduce the bang, not entirely – intended for hunters. In the second reading, this also spread to sportsmen. So it will be perfectly clear that this silencer can be used both on hunting weapons and on the weapons of sports shooters, which means on guns. It is generally known, and if we translate into practice all the law we use, I can very briefly answer the question of how best to get to the gun. You join a sports shooting club and then you run out of procedures, and that's how you get to the guns. As a result, some members of the Roma community in Roma settlements, where uncontrolled shootings often occur, have also developed. I must say that police have warned a while ago that they are aware of the problem that those members of the Roma community who have legal weapons can then obtain more ammunition, which they also sell to those who have illegal weapons. I agree with Mr Grims that in those who have legal weapons, there are very few crimes, not even worse crimes, but not in this category. This is where these things come in, and here is actually the problem that we're trying to point out. If there's any other way, I'm going to say, I'm going to accept that hunters get these moderators or silencers, and it's even harder for me to deal with this second category. Why? That's because I don't think my arguments hold up. The arguments are: to protect the hearing of the shooter, to protect the hearing of the dog, such as the hunter, to upset people nearby, to upset other people, and to generally reduce sound pollution. I can agree with that, but in particular in the work, if it were then mandatory to put this on all weapons and then regulate it. The amendment prepared by the LMSH is now saving what will happen to open the door and these chokers will come to the country. It would therefore be necessary and right to accept this amendment, which proposes that each silencer be given an identification number. If this cannot be done, no one will know what kind of silencer he is, but he is the silencer who leaves nothing, but he is the silencer who leaves the sound. With the controls they will carry out, the police will not have gun experts with them to tell them how much this device is leaving the sound and how much it is not. In practice, there will be major problems. This is not about me a priori going against the law now tabled by the coalition, because I also objected when we were in the coalition. I really have a pure purpose, and it's not some sort of conjecture. Finally, it should also be noted that the police themselves warn and question the use of these moderators, as it also facilitates the acquisition of criminal associations, these silencers also prevent detection of poaching and, finally, encourage poachers. If now the hunter has gone to the pit, I will say in my own way, and rob an animal that should not have been wrong, because he was wrong, someone has heard the shot, and in fact could not conceal what he has done. There was some kind of disciplinary punishment or something. Now the matter can be different. Last but not least, the police are warning that these silencers are changing the direction of the sound of lightning, not the arrow itself, but the sound. To put it domestically, if you hear that the shot came from this direction, if someone is using this silencer, it can happen or it actually happens that the shot came from a completely different direction. Such moderators also use special units to prevent the location where the shot comes from. If the police alone are supposed to monitor this, they're advising me, it's not wise for us to go this way. But we are where we are. The fact is that these silencers will, the fact is that both hunters and sports shooters will have them, so I think we are trying to be so wise that we are trying to follow the amendment prepared by the LMSH to bring back the provision that sound suppression devices are considered special equipment and that these devices are also specifically marked or given an identification number, as this will make it much easier to control. Once this is done, someone will have to give the identification number and will guarantee that it is not such a silencer that completely or to a significant extent stops the sound, but not that it is such a moderator that, say, 80% of the sound still allows. I'm counting here on a little sanity, because once we open this Pandora's box, when the door opens and it's on the nose that comes into this country, then it's gonna stay forever. But if we let this go our way, then we won't have control, especially because someone can buy it and someone can't. This kind of environmental protection against noise doesn't really mean anything to us if it's not legal for everyone. But it can't be fair for all of us, because you can't put the sound moderators on weapons that fire the silver bullets. But it may happen to us that someone on the shooting will have this silencer of sound, the other will not, but there will still be disturbances, yet there will be damage to one's hearing and the other. Even hunters themselves, some have weapons that are still more familiar with boxdriling and similar things, where they are combined with an embossed bullet and with a silver ball where they can't fit. They've got cartridges and they can't set this up either. This is one field that has opened up, and I am extremely troubled by it for a number of reasons. For once that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The debate will continue. Mr Igor Peček has the floor, Mr Nik Prebil is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As you said in the introduction, the basic arms law, dated back to 2000, was urgently needed for renovations. There was also a partial renovation in 2009. In the meantime, the law has also changed and the transposition of this last European arms directive from 2017 is in fact the result of updating and adapting to trends that I believe must be followed by any modern society. The fact is that the desire to possess weapons has increased in recent years, so there are various reasons. I wouldn't go down for personal reasons. Why? People just buy guns, either they want to participate in hunting, sports industries, everywhere where guns are props, with which certain activities are carried out. I think it is right to say that about 150,000 weapons are currently registered in Slovenia, half of these weapons are owned by hunters. There are about 20,000 hunters in Slovenia. That means every hunter has an average of four pieces of weapons. There are reasons for that, too. It is also a measure of collection, or of different categories, or of different activities carried out with certain weapons. However, I would like to say that my opinion is that when the use of firearms is linked solely and solely with hunting and shooting at wild game, it is certainly a mistake. Today, the image and behavior of the hunters are long gone beyond what was possible years ago. I personally know a lot of members of hunting families, who rarely or never use weapons to shoot game, but it is certain sporting activities, either shooting clay pigeons or shooting targets. Here I would like to refer to the amendment to Articles 3 and 4, which has already been highlighted by my colleague Baković. With this amendment, we have proposed that paragraphs 3 and 4 be supplemented so that the buffers or moderators of sound are considered as special equipment. Why does that make sense to us? We are talking about legal and illegal weapons, stressing that the delinquents, most of the worst, are produced by the use of illegal or unregistered weapons. We've suggested that you can't just buy a sound buffer in a store, so you can't even buy ammunition free in a store, but you can buy it for a specific weapon that has a valid weapon. Without this weapons charter, we suggest that you can't buy a buffer as well. This also means that, then, this sound moderator is recorded or registered. If we do not, we will indeed be able to buy the moderators for the purpose, as said by colleague Baković, it is also said to be free for those weapons which are illegal and unregistered. I myself believe that the possession of weapons does not necessarily pose a potential danger to society as such, but I agree that any piece of weapons registered or not registered poses a great danger, either because of incorrect use, not knowing how to handle it, not talking about other movements that lead to the use of weapons. In view of what I have said or what has also been exposed, it is important to stress the key changes and also the content we bring to this law in the directive. The fact is, surveillance, gun tracking will be better. As far as weapons processing measures are concerned, this level of demand is increasing for us, shopping, possession of weapons. And I think that's a good thing. In addition, the law also proposes re-categorisation of weapons, which means what I said a little back, thereby increasing security. However, I would like to stress or point out another thing that I think is absolutely necessary for us to separate from each other when we make decisions about this law or even to know at all. The procurement and arms document are two separate documents. Anyone who is either a member of a sports organization or a member of the Hunting Association or for any other purpose must meet six conditions to obtain a purchase document first. When he acquires the acquisition document, he can buy a weapon, he has it in his possession, but the ammunition can't buy it yet and he can't even buy a silencer until he gets the gun record. For this reason, therefore, it seems very important to us that sound softeners are considered to be a special part of the equipment that belongs to a particular type of firearms. As far as legalization is concerned, I'm going to say that I'm not answering again. Two views are possible, if I may call it, on the very process and purpose of legalization. The first is, of course, that with legalized weapons or with the possibility of legalization, we provide greater security, because then the weapons are recorded and we know exactly who the owner is, and we know how to deal with weapons. Those who have weapons must also complete certain knowledge when using them. And this exam is quite demanding. But the other thing that concerns me as one who will eventually decide on the law itself, as far as legalisation is concerned, is that I am somehow pretty sure that it means or allows for a greater introduction of weapons from the black market. Consequently, in order to register certain pieces, the result is that the sellers are encouraged and the arms still remain at home. I have doubts about legalisation at all, even because the legalisation of weapons is possible today. Anyone who wants to legalize a weapon can do that. It is true that the procedure lasts for quite some time, whatever. Found, found weapons may need to be reported to the police, taken to the police, or taken over by the police. A procedure shall be carried out to determine the origin of the weapon. After one year, if the owner is not found, even the procedure I said at the outset must be re-established to legalise this piece of weapons. That's possible. In view of the fact that we have already had two legalisations in the last eight years, I once again say that I have some concerns about this law, which allows for legalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The last one in this round gets the word, Mr Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! Yes, yes, the law before us has a long beard, not just for this mandate, but for some before. After a long time and after several warnings from the European Union, the government of Marjan Šarc under the leadership of Minister Poklukar at the time, and I will be honest here, with some better, some less better changes. The marriage still had two pitches. The first is that we all fell in the time of the pandemic. Second, that the government had changed and the law had not concluded the legislative procedure. At that time, however, we, as the largest government party, listened to the concerns of both the profession and some opposition parties and called for a public presentation of opinions, which, in my opinion, has proved to be useful, even though it was delayed for almost a year and a half. Thoughts and suggestions by shooting organizations, societies have helped to make the law at least in the part that deals with sportsmen, perhaps to some extent to a better degree. Before I refer to paragraphs 3 and 4, which we are talking about, just a few more general information. We have begun to amend the law due to the adopted directive, which in the first place wanted to improve security. I may agree with my colleague Grims here. Here, at least one part of the European Union has probably missed a bit. Security like the same directive, I won't say the law, it doesn't improve. This is for the Member States to handle themselves. Of course, Member States can adapt legislation to a certain extent, given that this is a directive. But the key thing to me is that we respect those key assessments, that is, the recategorization of weapons. This is the key foundation of the whole directive. As it is said, we still may not have strict enough legislation at European Union level to reach out to the black market with weapons or punish and prosecute those involved. Therefore, my call, the Secretary of State, to at least strengthen this matter at national level. What I think is good about the arms law is that it sharpens the health conditions of the possessor. That seems very important to me. You know the medical condition can vary. So someone gets permission, but two years from now, this medical condition can be completely different, even psychologically, physically. That is why I would only like to see these reviews even more intensive, i.e. for more than 5 years, but this period already laid down in the Directive, i.e. for at least 5 years, is appropriate. However, there are some changes that the government coalition has brought into this law between the committees that I do not like most and which, in my opinion, also affect this security that we have discussed before. First of all, these paragraphs 3 and 4 and, consequently, those referring to the review are paragraphs 24. As such, silencers or silencers may not be freely available in the store, according to the LMSH. It's like going to buy bread, and you buy two more chokers for a weapon you don't even own. I believe that this is also agreed by a number of shooting organisations, which, in the context of the public debate of opinions and also have already given their opinion on the Committee, that such access seems too general to them. Many opposition parties, or in fact all opposition parties, have also stressed this. What is crucial, however, is that some coalition parties have also stressed this. I really hope that this time the coalition will listen, not for the opposition or the coalition, but for the safety and logic of this, because we are still talking about the work that is part of the weapon. You can only buy it, and only if you possess a weapon for this silencer or this poca suffocation device, of course. Therefore, we propose an amendment to Article 3 which classified the puncture suffocation devices under special equipment. In practice, this would mean that a person will have to submit a valid arms document for a type of weapon for which he also purchases this poca suffocation device before purchasing the silencer. Of course, she'll be able to buy this potting machine at the same time, if she buys some kind of weapon, it's in a set. The same rules as the rules for use and sharing and lending of weapons should therefore apply to silencers. This seems appropriate to us because it is clearly determined which weapon belongs to a particular silencer and who can possess such a silencer and such a weapon in a set. Article 24 is amended as well, as stated in the introduction, that stranglers and not only weapons must be clearly marked with a permanent and uniform marking, and in particular the minimum factory number, calibre, year of production and the name of the manufacturer must be visible. This seems crucial to us from the point of view already mentioned by colleague Baković and also a few colleagues from Pecek, that we know exactly what is being imported into the country, what has been sold to anyone. Last but not least, members of the Police and a number of shooting organisations also pointed to these shortcomings. By comparison, they also have such arrangements in Germany, Estonia and Denmark, as well as in some other European countries. As we're told, we think it's appropriate to accept this amendment. I hope that this amendment will be adopted, i.e. Article 3, Article 4 and Article 24. These amendments are substantively linked and then this law will at least be significantly better in this part. Here are some other articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Before opening a new round of discussions, the Secretary of State, Mr Dialic, took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Since the main debate was on silencers, Mr Baković, Mr Peček and also Mr Nik Prebil discussed this, I might try to explain a few things further. However, if I may, I would have touched on the legalisation mentioned by Mr Pecek before that. I cannot fully share his opinion, namely that if weapons were legalised to encourage the black market. I think it's the opposite. This will reduce the number of weapons on the black market. This will register those weapons that have already been purchased by individuals. As a sports shooter or a hunter, if I can buy a weapon, I'd rather buy it at the store and buy it checked out, I can have a guarantee, all the certificates and so on. And I wouldn't buy guns on the black market so I could legalize it. That's not very wise. Even as I know other shooters, they do the same. We prefer to buy a weapon of a well-known manufacturer, confirmed, which offers you a guarantee and everything, there is no point in buying on the black market. But what is already purchased, which is owned by people, would then be registered and they would know where it is, which seems to me to be significantly, significantly better from a security point of view. But if I touch the chokers now. There were some concerns, I can also understand them, it was said that if stranglers could sell themselves free, then there was a danger that everyone would buy and so forth. These sound-restrictors are still today, and then I'm going to count a few countries where they're already using silencers. In some, they're also on the market. If I can't buy it in Slovenia on sale, I'm going to want it, and I'm going to go look for it in France or some other country where they're available for sale. Besides, every gunman makes it. No art can make a silencer sound. Even a slightly better drifter can make it, there are instructions on how to make it online. So we wouldn't increase anything. I'd like to add something here. Look, those who know what it looks like, but you probably know the compensators move away, linear compensators move away, which in their essence are not significantly different from silencers. And if you put some glass wool in the chambers for a linear compensator, it also works like a silencer. And they're free to sell, without any markings. It's not true that you don't know what kind of weapon any strangler goes to. It is specified exactly what mechanism it has to attach, how much sound it chokes and how much calibre it has. If you give the wrong one, you can have an accident with the shooting itself. You can't put a smaller caliber on a larger calibre. That's perfectly normal. But there's something else I'd like to think about. Look, I sensed some fear in the silencers that this would cause more poaching, so that, for what I know, security would be more compromised and so on. The experience of European countries does not show this. But I'll give you one comparison. No one is concerned that because of the sightings, the optics on the guns, and the guns, there could be more poachers, so that there could be more, what I know, terrorist actions, I don't know what else. Also, if you put a long - range view on a rifle, you can shoot very far, accurately, without it being difficult, much harder. The silencer himself is not dangerous. He's not threatening anyone, but he's reducing the noise, that's all. That's why it's not like James Bond to hear anything, because the silencer only chokes the sound to a certain degree of dust gas explosion. The sound wall caused by the shot-out bullet can't suppress that sound. Beating the sound wall doesn't stifle, and that's what it sounds like. It would be possible only with ammunition that is subsonic speed, but these normal sports rifles are not adapted for this kind of ammunition. So from this point of view, I don't think there's any particular problem, but as far as the rate of strangulation is concerned, it was said that the police would be difficult to check. After all, every product you buy today, the ordinary light bulb you buy, writes how strong it is and what it has. And the silencers also have certificates when you get them. However, those who are seriously suffocating under 50, 45 decibels are extremely expensive and special equipment. No sportsman and no hunter is likely to afford it because it's too expensive. Usually, chokers choke about 80 to 80 decibels, 90 decibels, to the extent that health is acceptable. However, if this is supported, it will be essential to make life easier for those living around sports shooting sites. Right now we've had a bunch of letters, I've been to the mayor's office in Sevnica myself, where they're having trouble with the noise of the shooting site, there's a lot of complaints. I told him that there was a law in place to deal with those chokers. If adopted, this will significantly decrease, but if there are problems, we will suggest that some of the earth’s embankments be prepared there so that the inhabitants can live easier. If you remember military shootings, where our army, the police, they train, sometimes they also allow sportsmen to practice some long distance training there, which is not possible on conventional shooting sites. They had a lot of trouble there. I know that about two years ago, they walked around and measured the noise because the residents were complaining. From my own experience, I know the last time I was in Gotenica, when a special unit of the police had exercises, the silencers who were sounding over 70 decibels didn't limit themselves, but they could shoot without headphones. It'll make life much easier. There will be fewer conflicts, fewer conflicts between residents and sportsmen, less among hunters. I appeal that this matter be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Prebil, then Mr. Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. The Secretary of State, I can understand your answer on the one hand, and on the other hand, I would only remind you that we do not oppose the use of silencers, even though we have had a hard time at the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, that we have brought the matter into law, given that many shooting organisations have warned us of the appropriateness and plus, if I may say so, the use of this. When you said you could go to France to buy, you can't, you can't go to France now because you can't bring it to Slovenia because it's forbidden here. This is what we want to remind you that even in Slovenia you cannot buy this as you buy bread. For the first time, it is foolish that you possess a silencer for a weapon you do not have, because you have nothing to do with it unless you have other purposes with it, so it seems to us that you can buy a silencer for a weapon for which you have a valid weapons document, either buy it separately if you have this weapon now, or buy it along with a weapon for which you have been issued an arms document and you accidentally buy that weapon. By the way, you're saying he's not using another weapon. That's true, but we've seen that these processings are possible, no matter what. But I also went almost two years ago to a test at a Ljubljana shooting site where this demonstration was shown and the shot sounds exactly the same, and that's strong, but it doesn't sound too strong to hurt the hearing. So I hope once again that this proposed amendment of the LMŠ Group will go through. This amendment is different from the one in the previous marriage prepared by the government of Marjan Šarc. However, I must stress this, but in this context we have changed the matter that the rules for the use of silencers do not apply to weapons, but to the rules applicable to specific equipment. This is an essential difference that, as part of the special equipment, silencers are only bound to an arms document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	I also wanted to respond to the fact that the use of silencers is allowed in France, so that doesn't mean you can buy them there and bring them to us. Under our current legislation, silencers are still under special equipment and, last but not least, equipment when the natural person is currently banned from purchasing silencers. And if anyone has it, it seems to me that this is actually a crime, an illicit traffic in weapons or explosives, which means you're in criminal proceedings, if you're using it at home or if you're in possession of such a silencer. As for the fear of poaching, we express fear. Look, this is what the police wrote in the bill, and, finally, it says that the moderator still retains between 90 and 130 decibels. Pock could be misleading, the position of the shooter could be missed by 90 degrees, which is also used in special military tactics. The pok doesn't sound from the side where the bullet came from, so it's impossible to determine the position of the shooter. So it's not a fear that would, I don't know, be present in me, but it was expressed by the police. And now I'm giving it a hard time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Patchek wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Yes, thank you very much. Look, obviously, Mr Secretary of State, we didn't understand where I was talking about the reasons for legalisation, but even though you confused me a little with your explanation, I'll tell you why. You said anyone would rather buy a weapon from a legitimate salesman. And I don't agree with that, and that's what I wanted to say. By allowing legalisation, we also allow weapons to enter the Republic of Slovenia from the black market. That's a fact. And that's what I wanted to say. I agree that as many weapons as possible are legalized because we have a record. And when you say to the silencers that a smaller caliber doesn't go on weapons. Yes, of course you can't, but at the same time, you say that any scraper can make a silencer. Then where's the security? What I have stressed is also from the point of view of security. For a specific type of firearms, a specific, professional, factory-made sound buffer shall be purchased, bearing the appropriate marking. This also prevents sound buffers from being used for weapons they do not belong to and also for those which are not registered at all. That's worse. I just wanted to explain once again what I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has recommenced and then we open a new round of applications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam President. To first touch the legalization. We may have got the wrong idea a little bit, but anyway. Maybe a few numbers. Legalisation was carried out in 2001. At that time, some 5,000,800 pieces of different weapons were legalized or reported by citizens. Two thousand 200 pieces were reported in 2004. The third legalization took place in 2009 and was reported in just over 4,000,100 pieces of weapons. That's supposed to be some kind of number spinning around. Since it has been 12 years since 2009, it is likely that there are other weapons that someone may have purchased from various homes, but he is thinking more and more about not having them in black and turning them in. But it is certainly in our interest that as many weapons as possible are registered. It also happened that my father might have acquired a weapon and then died, and they found it at home, they didn't know what to do with it, they thought it could be sold to someone. If legalization is possible, I believe at least part of this weapon will be registered. So I personally support this matter. However, you will make your own decision in the end. As far as sound moderators are concerned, as we discussed earlier. I had announced before, and then I missed out, maybe a few European cases. In Austria, silencers are not an essential component of weapons and therefore do not belong to weapons. Bulgaria, individuals can own silencers who stifle up to 45 decibels, no less. 45 is relatively quiet. Then Denmark, they have permission here. Estonia, the silencer is not considered an essential component of the weapon. Finland, if a person already owns a weapon, does not need a license to purchase. France has enacted silencers in January 2018, according to terrorist actions that were there. So they didn't have any serious fear that the introduction of chokers would reduce security in the country. Ireland, it is necessary to obtain an easy authorisation for the possession and use of silencers. Latvia, it has been authorised since 2014. Luxembourg, they're allowed to hunt and sport. Germany has different regional arrangements. Portuguese, permitted, but they must not choke more than 50 decibels. Sweden is also allowed. Switzerland, they're allowed if hunters, sportsmen and collectors ask permission, they're allowed. In Norway they are allowed, even if it is stated that the use is not compulsory, this is said to be relatively relaxed. In all these countries, silencers have been introduced. in the last period I have not been able to obtain data to significantly reduce security in order for this to result in criminal acts. The police position in these countries is clearly not opposed to the use of silencers or has been disregarded by the legislator. But anyway, in all these countries, they have positive experiences. I believe there won't be any negative experiences with us either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, there is still an interest in the debate, so I will open a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word, Mr. Janez Moškrič, after him mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In the light of these amendments tabled, it should be reiterated that public treatment has been prepared for this law. I think it was really quality and all the participants were able to say their own. Above all, we had the opportunity of Members as non-experts in this area to listen and hear them. I myself believe that it was right that the law with those amendments which were tabled on the committee and confirmed them has regulated to this extent that it is now possible for all those who handle weapons – in addition to public servants, hunters and sportsmen – to be able to operate well and the law can then be implemented. As far as the comments and amendments made to these sound moderators are concerned, let me say that the representative of the Hunting Organisation did not have any concerns at all about the use of certain sound moderators, which already exist for hunting weapons, and thus this disturbance, which sometimes occurs in hunters near settlements, as far as possible, could also be improved. It is probably clear to all that a moderator of sound, who would illegally use it, cannot be bought for military weapons in the sense that a certain store of moderators would only sell at once for military weapons. This certainly did not comply with the rules applicable in the field of arms trafficking and equipment. We have already seen on the committee itself some amendments have been non-professionally tabled. Let's say it was just prescribed 60 centimeters when we know it's for thousands of thousands of dollars even when it comes to lengths. So I believe that the law is properly and well prepared, especially in the light of the professional opinions of all participants. With these amendments tabled by the coalition, we are also correcting some of the concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is why I will support these amendments. For others, I think they would introduce certain unnecessary also bureaucratic barriers to those who use weapons for hunting or shooting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grimes, get ready, Mrs. Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	Have a nice hello again! If there has been any quality to the debate on the Committee so far and there has been a public presentation of the opinions of all previous stages of public treatment of this law, it has taken place without any major demagogicity. There was something small about it, but mostly it wasn't. And that's what Slovenian sports deserve. It would be nice if this is still happening today. When it comes to weapons, there's always a little fear. People don't understand what's going on or what's being manipulated. After all, this European Weapons Directive is a demagogy in itself. They took it to get a picture of them doing something for safety. In fact, they didn't do anything for security, much less damage. However, they have done a great deal to harm European sport. Because people who don't know what they're talking about, or they don't care because they're trying to get cheap political points. And let us hope that this division continues in the Slovenian Parliament without demagogies. Why am I stressing this? When we talk about silencers, which was before the talk, it's what people think of as film. You know he does something "ph" and one of them falls in the movie. Of course, that is not the case in practice. What this law is talking about and what is at stake are the shrinks. So the bang is still there, and how powerful the bang is. If I threw one firecracker in here on Wednesday, there would be about the same sound force as a hunting rifle, which has already been built in, and without this adieu of ears, and something else, because then the bang is so powerful that it can also permanently damage the hearing. That's the difference. Why does this have to be accepted? Because a number of European countries have already enacted this. There are areas, there are sports industries, there are hunting areas where even mandatory use of shrinkers is required. And now imagine this absurdity for an athlete in the Republic of Slovenia or for a hunter, let's say it goes to one such competition where it is mandatory. He acquires it, so he committed a crime in Slovenia, and he must not perform there without it. What an absurd thing to do! There are differences between European countries. And these are much bigger than most imagine. After all, you can buy weapons of fire in some European countries for a notification. If you're, like, a full-year-old lady going to a dealer, buying a 12-caliber bar, that makes a hole like that, by the way, and you take it home with bullets worth it. He just writes down who took it and where he took it. And that's it. This is in some European countries. In Slovenia it has never been like this in the time of independent Slovenia and it is not now. It is therefore necessary to know when we are talking about this Directive that it is also intended to reduce these differences slightly between European countries. In those countries where this freedom was very large, they have done their utmost to preserve it, irrespective of this Directive. In this part, this directive has completely missed its purpose. But he's got a problem with sports. And now if we go back to those shifts. Look, it's a huge demagic that now that someone's gone, they can buy anything. He can't. Do you know why not? Because you can't just go on, say, one ordinary gun that you have at home, whatever sound compensator or silencer has installed. Yes, you pacifiers! How's that? That would require an intervention. Let's just say you have a legal weapon at home and you want to go buy it. If you want to use a silencer, as you popularly call it, it's actually a silencer, you'll have to process the pipe. But if you process a pipe, it's an essential part of a weapon, which requires a legalization process or an appropriate pre-purchase procedure, if you buy a new one, or if you have to buy another weapon that's adapted to it. So this security device that you want to install is actually embedded in itself. To the vast majority of the legal firearms held by people in their home, it is not possible at this moment to install directly the shrinkers. It is necessary to make a thread, which, of course, requires its intervention again, which is an intervention to an essential part of the weapon, which then puts the matter in the right light. There is no way to do this without proper permission, so please let's talk without demagogies. And one more thing when it comes to reducing poker. I used to say that some imagine that only a little "ph" does that. No, no, no, no, no! That he is a real silencer requires this extremely complex matter, which is also extremely expensive and which is not sold anywhere in the world at all. No one can even import such chokers like that. These are special and dedicated matters which cannot be obtained on the civilian market either. Besides, there's something else you need to know. Even if someone had this, it can't be used on a normal weapon, because it requires a special tube and requires a subsonic launch. And a subsonic missile means it has a purely tiny range. These are really the real silencers who are then used for, I don't know, police or military special purposes and so on. But it's not, and that's not what this law's talking about. He's talking about reducing poker. That's the difference, or 160 decibels rip your ears open permanently because you accidentally stood there because you weren't careful, or without consequences, and you just sound a little. But it's still good. And believe me, this pok is very bad. As Mr Prebil said earlier, who wants to convince himself to try it, he will see. So please, in this case, no demagogies. The second thing is, it's mandatory to do what some of you said. In theory, it sounds good, and some countries have been thinking about it, and as I know, they've mostly given up on it. Do you know why? Because there are some special sectors, especially sports shooting, where it can affect again. For the vast majority, when it's just a bang, that's okay. It reduces the pok, it doesn't interfere with the surrounding area. This is especially true in settlements where, usually in closed buildings, in old factories, from Tržič to White Krajina, shooting societies have their own premises and then have to limit hours and make sure that they do not disturb their neighbors or even look at them badly. If we could use shrinkers, we would practically not be able to hear outside, but, of course, it would still be a joy to see that there was no misunderstanding. The second is when it comes to extreme precision shooting at long distances. There, ordinary people who do not do it themselves do not even know what affects this precision. Like the temperature of the powder or the propulsion agent or the ratio between the temperature of the ammunition and the temperature of the weapon itself. When shooting at very long distances, this can decide whether to hit the target or fly all at least 20 inches [20 cm] or 30 centimeters [30 cm] away or a full meter, if it is a very long distance. Therefore, it is not possible to resolve this by just one measure, and therefore it makes sense that this remains voluntary, that it is used where the possibility, where it is in general benefit rather than prescribe it again, you go from one extreme to another. That's why it's good to talk about it without demagogies. But believe me, no one is going to abuse this, because even in the countries where they have now introduced it, there are no cases of abuse. I've been asking around. Nobody notices that now I don't know what's gotten bigger. I'll tell you what I used to say. More when there's an illegal weapon, there's more danger, and we're talking about a legal weapon, a sport that's been recorded. That is also why there is a misunderstanding or perhaps some misunderstanding when we are talking about legalisation. Even security books, if you don't believe, go look at the library in Tacen or some other, you'll see that they talk about legalization being an exception or, if you want, taking weapons out of circulation on the black market. So, security is increasing, not diminishing. Why? Because the moment you report a weapon, the moment the police know when the MNZ knows who has something -- that's all they need to know -- is a hugely reduced possibility of using it for any crime. Because everyone knows it's traceable. Firearms are traceable. As a result, it is so important that it is legalized that it does not circulate in the black market, because it is dangerous. But then it is abused, because there is no control over it, it is not traceable, it is not known who has what. And that's a potential danger. Therefore legalisation is a meaningful project, and this is not the first time, as some of you have rightly found. There have been two legalizations. It's also important because people face their own dilemmas a lot, what I know, they find at home something from maybe someone who died in the family, and then they don't know what to do with it now. Or they'd throw away because they don't want to have it, they're afraid there's gonna be danger, they don't know if they're gonna take it to the police, they're gonna come out on their own. That's how they make their own fears and problems for no relationship. But if it's said to be legalized, they'll bring it. It is then assessed whether the matter is such that it is even possible to legalize it, since it is also necessary to know that all weapons are not legalized. This shall then be duly recorded, carried out in due course and checked by the person who would then own it. Our procedures have so far been extremely precise and much more demanding than in most European countries, but they are now further exacerbated. That's what I'm reminding you of. In Slovenia, not only do you have to take a course to perform psychothesis, you have to do a medical examination, you also have to do a safety check, there has to be a certificate of impunity and so on. In short, there are things that are still difficult and cannot be done by anyone. And these are all security guards that people who want to abuse these things don't get their hands on it. And that's good. If it is more legal, it decreases illegally, the black market is shrinking, the possibility of someone who really wants to do evil is diminishing. Think of all the things we're talking about today that touch sports, they don't touch everything else. But as for the other, and just for the sake of reflection, how fortunate we were that that boy, who had some strange ideas, went to the darknet and thought that there was still no control there, and the Americans intercepted him and communicated him, and then stopped him in time for something very bad to happen on Bezhah. If I took another path, it would be worse. Otherwise, it's about the fear of firearms. It's about sports, about hunting, about everything that you've said in general, as you've yourself said when it comes to legal weapons, there's never any bad quality or consequences. When it comes to illegality, it's still another story. We also have some very bad cases in Slovenia. But there's something else you need to know. Scare with it or exaggeration. See if anyone wants to commit a crime, he'll go get one big knife or an axe. Even another river is in force in the White landscape, Mr Baković will surely agree that as long as those whom he mentioned earlier are firing, there is nothing wrong with them, they are usually looking forward to it. But when they grab the ax, then he's the devil, then he's the real deal. Would you agree, Mr. Baković? There's a river like that going around, and we all know why that river is. So all you have to do here is have some ratio and take things away so that, as I started from the beginning, Slovenia's sport is preserved and strengthened. Because it's really a sport. Everything else needs to be done in such a way and to such an extent that security is ensured that the principle that is, in fact, respected in Europe, regardless of the differences I have mentioned, but to a large extent achieved: more than legal matters, it is better in terms of security. The more illegal it is, the more dangerous it is for all people. Therefore, it must be the first objective to legalise matters, to control that control is appropriate, that procedures are prescribed. Here Slovenia already has the relevant legislation. Now it's just about saving Slovenian sports.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Baković first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Yes, thank you very much. Well, I'll say, a little too easy, my respectable colleague, you talk about these things, that we filmly think these chokers are fiction and so on. They'd be surprised, they'd really be surprised to know what I've seen in my life, and how innovative some of them are in overcrowding weapons, from banal guns, I'll say, turning an air rifle into a small-caliber gun, to making pencil guns, to making hunting rifles to launch shotguns, and so on. Really, if you knew this side, you'd probably be wondering about it. But this isn't about my fear. This is about the scepticism that the police have put in place in the draft law. And if the police have doubts or if they object, then you have to ask yourself. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Prebil has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Yes, thank you very much. I'm going to replicate my colleague Grimes and a few more to the Secretary of State because I had to jump out early. I'm sorry. Comrade Grimes, I don't quite agree with you here. Speaking of silencers, we need to reiterate that no one here today is talking about banning them. All we're talking about is that this amendment allows for even greater security. Someone with a legal weapon is not going to process this weapon today and will go buy this choker, or a paper-based moderator, into a store that allows it to be sold. The one who doesn't have this weapon legally may be processing it. You can't know that. You don't know what kind of weapon he owns, but he'll be able to buy stranglers for his illegal weapon. That's what we're trying to tell you. That is why we want the purchase of weapons - and I think the goal will still be achieved - to be linked to the existing arms document. And also, I'm sorry, but I really don't think I'm going to go on political attacks or anything here right now, but when you're talking about a little weird views of someone who wanted to kill half the school, these aren't exactly weird views. There's a lot of strange looks, and there's something else. So these things are bad. But it was an illegal black weapon, I agree. Therefore, supervision, punishment in this area must be strengthened. Once again, the objective of the amendment, which we are investing in the LMSH and which I hear has a great deal of support, is to further increase security. Those who possess weapons legally will still be able to possess them. Now it's just a really brief comment on legalization. I have very mixed feelings here, I'll tell you the truth. Those who meet the conditions now will, of course, buy weapons legally, otherwise they can't be bought. But whoever can't does, they have some bad intentions, if they have these resources, they're gonna buy guns on the black market. But this person, of course, will not bring this weapon into this process of legalization. He'll still be on the black market. But if there's an accident like this, then you do him a favor because you let him turn the crime into a legal one. And here I see this biggest problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Natasa Sukić, preparing Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I've been very critical for the last time, and today I'm going to repeat the concerns that are not just mine. As we have heard, there are concerns on the part of the police, and there are others on the side of the police, and you don't respect them, you don't hear them. Logically, yes, of course we transpose the directive. The problem of such transpositions of directives, where amendments then impose various things and try to create a legal basis for a variety of things, may be problematic. In the SDS, NSI and SNS, you have presented or touched on some very controversial amendments, which I think should be rejected in the form you imagine. Here, my friend Grims keeps saying it's a Slovenian sport. If only it was Slovenian shooting sport, great. But let me tell you, well, about the liberalisation of the silencer you are now in a lot of flames, but let me tell you what the legalization of telescopic rods has to do with Slovenian shooting sport, or, say, allowing the acquisition of A-category weapons documents for shooting organisations, i.e. for NGOs in the field of defence. Is that a sporting activity by any chance? With this law, you would allow collectors to gather even the most modern military weapon, which has not been possible so far. So far, it has been possible for these collectors to obtain weapons that were no longer used by the military or the police. After the new one, it'll be possible if it goes through. You would simplify procedures to obtain weapons documents for ex-cops, soldiers and intelligence officers, which you could do after this law. I still think that this will allow the legalisation of black weapons, as my colleagues have pointed out before. There's a lot of very worrying things here. Since you're just pretending that they're not, that everything is great and that it's only about Slovenian shooting sport, but it's not true, as I just said, in Levica we tabled an amendment to what we find most controversial, this is to delete the provision that the arms documents for category A for sport can be obtained by NGO shooting organisations in the field of defence. But I'll talk about it later when we get to Article 13. To re-emphasize what the problem is. The biggest problem for our notions is that members of a shooting organisation that has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence will therefore come to the weapons charter for the A-category of weapons. We know what organization this is really about. You are preparing a legal basis for your company VSO, which is close to the party SDS. Then there is a big problem with metal telescopes, which are known as popular weapons and tools of neo-Nazi gangs or yellow vests, if you want, used in street fights. After the news, this will no longer be a banned weapon. And I would really like to explain why, because I didn't get this explanation, for example, even though I was asking that question. As far as stranglers are concerned, no one here mentions that you would also legalize bayonet adapters. Apparently, bayonets are no problem, so it will be new to all weapons of alleged sports shooters and hunters. So not just silencers, but bayonets. Now we've heard all the living explanations about silencers, but I'd like to know what discipline sports shooting with bayonet is. I've never heard of such sports discipline. If you want to weigh down or stabilize a pipe, you probably use weights instead of bayonets. We know what bayonets are used for. For stabbing, not shooting, so I'd like to explain why the bayonets are now attached to this. As far as weapons collectors are concerned, they can already own military weapons from the most strictly regulated A-category of weapons, but the condition is in the current law, and I think this condition is very fine and I don't understand why they would change it. The condition is that these weapons are no longer produced and are not used by the defence force or the police. And now you would delete this condition and the collectors could suddenly also possess the most modern military weapon, while at the same time abolishing the provision that those with more than 10 pieces of weapons B and C category should allow police officers to control how they store these weapons. Now you tell me where the safety is. Why would they do that to me? Why should this provision be repealed? Why would these people suddenly have access to some modern weapons used by the military and the police? Why? Although they can also, say, store the B-category murder weapon, such as the M76 Sagittarius rifle used earlier by the Slovenian Army. It is clear that this is not a provision that museums or private owners of historic weapons would need, but it is a matter of, I don't know, arming people with some modern weapons. I don't understand. I really want to know why. In addition, as I said, you are simplifying the procedure for issuing an arms document for the police, soldiers and informants outside the working hours or after the end of the working relationship. If we sum all this up, Your Honor, and later, at article 13 of our amendment, I will explain in more detail, we may become afraid, even with your recent rhetoric on the alleged civil war. Here you can ask yourself what the basis is and for whom you are actually preparing these various amendments, which you have subsequently attached. Now you are bragging about how you had a public debate. Of course you did, but these amendments of yours came after this discussion. And these amendments are very dangerous. The ones I listed for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you. Indeed, my memory still extends to the previous term, when we had quite a good number of meetings of various initiators, such and different. But what can be a summary of all this, all this debate, that we will not today, when it seems to me that we are going somewhere now, give some wrong feeling, how much of this is in Slovenia and that there are problems. I don't think so. With some legal weapons in Slovenia, according to our assessment, there are no special problems, not with the weapons that collectors possess to understand each other. However, there must be some developments in this market on a global and European scale, and it is right that legislation is adapted and responsive. It is true that Europe is also seeking greater control, for some greater traceability, for greater security and so on, and it is right for us to respond accordingly. Last but not least, the worst events that we remember from the near past, I am talking about Paris, of course, the two events that were there are weapons from the black market that have been processed. Today it has already been said that we have about 150 000 weapons registered in Slovenia. I went to look at the data that essentially this number of pieces does not increase significantly, not even the number of hunters, when we said before that almost half of these weapons are in the hunters. It is the same with collectors to understand each other, but the number of sports shooters is increasing. Earlier, a colleague said very well how you would get a gun license. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we estimate that in reality the current arms law is somewhat restrictive or strict enough with regard to the acquisition, use, storage and transfer of weapons, but also the challenges posed by crime, terrorism, in view of all trends and in terms of production and supply on the EU market, on the world market and so on. Nevertheless, the question is in fact whether the directive that we are now transposing, as well as the news that we have on the table today, has really addressed and solved that major problem. This is whether it is a suitable or a balanced response to the fight against terrorism, extremism and so on. Once again, we probably all agree in these conclusions that there is no problem with the weapons that are registered and legal, that there is a need to find a right balance here, that we will not with some very strict or restrictive interventions to date to the rights of legal owners of weapons in essence, then cause them to retreat to the so-called black market and that this will then increase, due to these interventions, that we will also impose disproportionate and administrative burdens and so on. What I want to point out is that it is necessary to respond to the situation as it is, but it is always necessary to find the right measure here, so to speak, that only with some changes in the area of legitimate procurement, the legitimate possession of firearms, will we not really step on the fingers of terrorists, not criminals, not extremists, and so on. Last but not least, as mentioned earlier today, we have recently had one such case of a Kropa boy who has imagined some things and, in such cases, such a change is not really the solution. It should also be borne in mind that we are in the relative vicinity of the Balkans or some countries where these weapons are clearly in the black market. This weapon still travels through Slovenia through some Balkan routes, but it is true that Slovenia is not the target country, that the target countries are mostly Scandinavian, that the target countries are France, Germany, the Netherlands and so on. However, it is necessary to implement measures for what travels across our territory and hence also to fight against it, to detect, investigate, capture and so on. With regard to what has been most debated so far, these are amendments relating to paragraphs 3 and 4 concerning silencers. We will support these amendments because we believe they are properly addressing the issue. I can also agree that if someone owns a gun sheet, if they own a weapon, there is no reason why they should not possess a silencer in the same way, that all of this will be recorded, that they will know exactly where it is and what to allow someone to acquire a silencer if the weapons are not legally available. In this regard, I think this amendment is the right one and we already support it. I do not intend to continue to advertise further, so I might also say that we will support all the amendments tabled and also the law, as I have already said in my previous implementation. As far as silencers are concerned, the amendments are appropriate, the nomotechnics that the coalition is correcting, and I can also say that what my colleague Sukič has pointed out is also supported by the amendment of the Left, because I think it is absolutely unnecessary to extend this circle, but that is what needs to be said. When I spoke before about some real measure, the real measure of sharpening and also the real measure of some courage, I see no reason in regulating why we would in fact extend these matters to NGOs in the field of defence, I see no reason why, earlier, my colleague Pecek said very well how the way of obtaining a weapons license is actually going for someone who is a member of a sports shooting organisation. That seems quite appropriate to me. But I hope, once again, that the objective also set out in the European Directive in response to certain developments related to extremism and terrorism will, in fact, be addressed. If not, we will find the answers to these problems very quickly and then address them accordingly, both us and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Dr. Bozo Predaliè has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Maybe a few more words. Fear was expressed regarding the abuse of poachers. Those Members who were here before the adoption of the law in the first reading are probably reminded that representatives of the Hunting Association have come to present and suggest that silencers may be used in hunting. The president of the Hunting Association was here and presented. I also think the Hunting Association staged a demonstration at the Rakovnik shooting site. If the hunters do not have concerns about poaching and the use of silencers, you too are likely to be Members of Parliament and we do not have to have them at the Ministry. As far as legalization is concerned, as my colleague Grimes mentioned earlier. Maybe I'd just add that much. The legalization of weapons doesn't mean that you're bringing a piece of weapons now, if you want to register that weapon and put it in your pocket and step out. Absolutely not. First, it is determined whether this weapon belongs to a category that an individual may have. If he doesn't, he's been taken. If he doesn't meet all the other conditions for weapons, he's been taken away and destroyed. However, if an individual could have this type of weapon, he must do whatever the law requires. This means — from a medical examination, a psychothesis, a test on the safe handling of weapons. In short, everything all the other shooters have to do. Maybe someone's wrong to think that I'm the one who's bringing a speeding machine gun to legalize and take it home. I can't do it because it belongs to a category of prohibited weapons, but it's taken and destroyed, or put in a museum or something. If I bring the gun, they'll say, "Oh, nice, fine, we'll write it down, we'll get it done, do whatever it takes, fix it on the administration unit, do the exam and then you can have it." That's what it looks like, so there's probably no terrible fear of it. We talked a lot about silencers. Perhaps here again I would like to highlight and highlight the case of Austria. In Austria, stranglers are not an essential component of weapons, so they do not belong to weapons, so they are not included in their documents. They're on sale. We're worried that if we can buy them at our place, then I don't know how many poachers, the black market, the criminals will come to these chokers because someone will be able to buy them. Look, what it's like to go to Celovec today, buy a fasungo, and this silencer, and drive back. All criminals can do that. If they can also buy them from us, there will be no significant reduction in safety. However, if all of this is to be recorded, it will significantly increase after unnecessary new bureaucracy. In order to make a mistake, any normal shooter who buys will look at the declaration, the indications, the calibre and all the other markings and buy it if it suits him. If he doesn't, he won't buy it. I may also be trying to explain to Mrs Sukič, who spoke of bayonets, she mentioned this last time. Look, Mrs. Sukičeva, I don't know if you know or don't know, in Slovenia some shooting societies are running, preparing, organizing games with older weapons, with historical weapons. All historical rifles, including M48 and similar, have bayonet adapters. Without that rifle, it's not original. If you're gonna blow this plug, then the gun isn't that anymore. But I'd like to tell you that bayonets haven't been in cold arms for a while. This law no longer includes weapons and is therefore considered to be a weapon for bayonets. But it is so if we take a practical look to see if someone wants to hurt someone. Like, if I'm caricing that I have a gun and I want to do something to you, not take it personally, I'm speaking in a parable. Why don't I just pull the trigger, but I'll open the bayonet, run against you with a bayonet and spy on you. I don't think that makes any sense. Whoever's got a gun, if he wants to do something bad with a gun, he'll probably shoot. Even if he didn't have a bayonet or bayonet adapter, he could hit him with a hoof, so that's probably not why it's so special. As a special category, this is a historical weapon with which competitions are conducted. The Slovenian Army, except last year when the problem was due to covido, also had competitions with the M48 military rifle, the famous mausarica, and invited all civil associations, even firefighting companies, to report that they were competing. If that were the case, then it's no longer possible. When you asked, you had doubts about automatic weapons, which collectors could also collect. Look, here's the thing, you've been thinking about what's still being produced or is still being used by the military or the police. This would have been extremely limited if that had been the case. For example, Kalashnikov, a historical matter, I know a collector in Slovenia who has one of the pieces of the prototype, a historically important thing, is willing to put it in the museum. But since the army is using the Kalashnikovs again and the police have those short-shooters from Kalashnik, I shouldn't have collected them. And that would limit it. However, I would like to read to you, in this law, which is on the table today, in paragraph 5 of Article 5 of the third paragraph: “A new fourth paragraph shall be added after the third paragraph, which reads as follows: The Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall determine the types and permitted calibre of short-term or long-term firearms with individual charging, repetitive mechanism, semi-automatic and automatic weapons of category A, which shall exceptionally be collected on the basis of the second sentence of paragraph 48 of the first paragraph.” The Commission, which shall also now and also in the future, provides that the Special Commission shall be composed of representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I think that the armies watching the list also now exist lists where exactly what types of weapons the collectors can collect. What's not on that list is not for any collector to have. If he has one, it's illegal. And that's what's gonna happen in the future. Not everything will be automatic, but what this commission will allow. The weapon is already on that list. If there is no such thing on the list, collectors take the initiative to make a request if they can also collect these weapons. Then the commission decides. It's not exactly free for everyone to be anything they want right now. I think I just took what I was trying to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you for explaining. You're not everything to me. I've already asked the last time, and today again, why there will be legalized telescope rods. We know who's using them for street fights. They're either neo-Nazis or yellow jackets that use it. And why is this going to be legal all of a sudden? They'll be able to beat us legally. That's my question. As for silencers on hunting rifles for the use of hunting, I would only point out that this has not yet been put before the debate that this is counterproductive. If we smother the sound, the animals won't be afraid. If the beast hears or the deer hears pok, run away from the village. In this way, it will continue to threaten the villagers because they will not hear these shoots, and they will still eat the vegetables, and the beast will also threaten the village. So this is completely illogical from a security point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Look, Mrs. Sukič, the silencers have come in on the huntsman's initiative. If the hunters can't judge. Even if you remember when they came to present their proposal for the use of silencers and we also made a demonstration. They were representatives of the Hunting Association. They weren't sportsmen. But when things developed, it was said that after all, there was noise there, and it was thought to be used there as well. Perhaps hunters know better what's right for the savages, what's wrong with them than we know, but I can be wrong. As far as the telescope sticks are concerned, last time you asked. Slovenia would always be something special. You can go to Austria and buy it at the store, no problem. I personally don't know any cases in Slovenia when someone with a telescope would hurt anyone.Now I don't know if they're yellow jackets or who's wearing them. But I know that much more, much more violence has been done with knives, and no one has any doubts about them. Shoplifts killed a lot of people in Slovenia even after World War II, and no one proposes to ban shoplifts and similar tools. And look, the telescope is actually working for selfies today. If it's made of steel, it's the same. But we're also going to ban it so that someone doesn't happen to have this hard stick that's for selfies to work for. Let us draw close to Europe once and for all to have the same criteria as other European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The replica's got Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much. It might be nice to finish this part and go to the next amendments, Mr Secretary of State, because we obviously don't understand each other. As far as legalization is concerned. Now you've said well, and you've said well, what must be done. I know that, and I agree with that. It's the only thing you've said well is that no one who owns a weapon in black will bring it. And here I am wondering what is the meaning of this relegation, which has been carried out three times since the time of independence in the Republic of Slovenia. That's it. As far as the choker's concerned, that's all. The point of all of this is to increase security. Even when you say you can go to Austria. Yes, of course you can go, only you can't bring this to Slovenia because it's forbidden to us now. And it will still be forbidden for us with this amendment, because you will only be able to possess it if you have the weapon. It doesn't make sense that someone buys it on stock or someone buys it for others with weapons on black, but that things are properly produced. No more red tape, because, as it is said, it will not bind itself in the way it is tied in Austria, so it is not part of the weapon, it is a special equipment, and you will only show that you have an arms document for a certain piece of weapons and for this particular piece of weapons you will be able to buy a silencer. That's all it's about, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, replica. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll open another round. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you. Look, Bertolt Brecht said, "The book is a weapon." Let us buy and collect books, not weapons, and let us be more European in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you. Just for a little while, a few facts. Mrs. Servant said that the current law is okay. But here I completely agree. And believe me, all Slovenian shooters agree with you. Unfortunately, the law has to be amended because someone in the European Parliament has come up with a directive that is bad for athletes, security does not help absolutely anything, quite the opposite, but that they took some pictures there to do something, they adopted something without even knowing what they did. Now we have to change the law. That's why we're actually changing the law. But he's really good so far, and I totally agree with you here, and I'm sure it would be best if things could leave things the way they are. The other thing is, a few answers. I'll tell you again if it's about processing when we talked about this earlier. Any processing of essential parts of the weapon means that those weapons are no longer legal, unless they are carried out by permission and by appropriate procedure, otherwise any processing, suction, I do not know what has been mentioned, such as drilling of coils, means that, if it is an attack on a pipe, those weapons are no longer legal because they are not sold as they were originally sold. This means that it is taken away that the possession of such weapons is also punishable. Here, these things need to be made very clear. When it comes to the black market, I repeat, the withdrawal of weapons from the black market contributes to security. This raises the level of safety. That's why he's positive. And that's to be said for. Not only because this reduces the number of pieces circulating in the black market, but less than it is, but also because of more control. There is also a greater possibility of investigations if only the number is smaller in itself. More importantly, if someone wants to legalize something, it is possible to assess what it is or whether it is even possible to legalise it. If, for example, it is processed in a special way, it is subtracted if it is automatic, which is prohibited, it is withdrawn. And most importantly, the person who wants to legalise this is then also the subject of a procedure in which he must meet all the conditions arising from the law. This is said to be someone who is not a reliable person who has such or other circumstances that could cast doubt on his reliability or suggest the possibility that he poses a threat to the environment, that, for example, he is conflicted and so on, because you know what all this means, is taken away from him, the weapon can be put into the museum, if it is a matter of no purpose, and then destroyed. So legalization contributes to security. That's to be said for. And then there's the animals. Why are hunters to use this? Because, with all due respect, you need to know the shot. The arrow is made from a hunting rifle at speeds of 600, 800, including 1000 meters per second, if things are at high speed. When the animal hears a bang, the bullet's through. Nothing's gonna scare the hell out of this animal anymore. Only those animals that happen to be in the vicinity are intimidated, and those that can then act negatively in certain cases. This is also one of the reasons hunters tend to allow this use where possible and where it makes sense. It's not all weapons, I say again, so you can't just prescribe that. But where it is, in certain cases it is good for animals to avoid unnecessary stress and, until then, sometimes bad consequences that happen. On the other hand, it must also be said that the role of hunters in this natural system, which is a complete collapse, is important. They have a role to play. If it does, go and see what the gams of the garage did, how the animals suffered at the time, because things had not been handled in the way they should have. And I'm not a hunter, you can believe me, I love animals too much, but I know what happens, and unfortunately I've seen it. I must say, it was extremely bad. For this reason, it is also necessary to take into account the views of hunters who know what this is all about. They respect nature, and I firmly believe that in no way will there be abuse on their part. Today there is much more order in hunting societies than there was a few decades ago. When you could see it, I'm sorry, but in the old South, the guy with the hunting rifles, who was stoned, he was on the side of what bike he was on. That's not gonna happen today. But if he did, the weapon would have been taken from him and he would have paid the penalty, and the hunting society would have thrown him out of their ranks the next day. In this regard, things have changed significantly today, and that is good because this means more security in this area too. And once again, this is primarily about sports. As for sport, there were no such events, even in Slovenia, Slovenia alone. Because of this, as Mrs Slug said, it would be best to leave everything the way it was. But unfortunately that's not possible. Today, we are trying to bring these things in line as much as possible with the European level and, on the other hand, to comply with this Directive, in order to save Slovenia's sport to the greatest extent possible and to preserve it so that it can continue to achieve its respective success. That's all this is really about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have tabled an amendment to Article 10 of the LMŠ, adding to Article 14, paragraph 4, the text which is already in force in the current law and has not been released with the amendment of the coalition, namely, in addition to hunting and sports weapons, security weapons are now added because we have heard what concerns they are and are appropriate, but without checking the conditions of up to six pieces of such weapons. We do not agree with this in the LMŠ, because we believe that in point 4 a legitimate reason for issuing the arms document must always be checked. Therefore, by this Article, we add the sentence back that, without checking the conditions, it is possible only from points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6, and the reason for issuing the arms document shall be checked every time referred to in point 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Dr. Bozo Predaliè has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, chairman. Maybe I could explain here, and it's probably just a misunderstanding, anyway. This fourth point requires a re-examination if there is still a valid reason. Maybe I'll give you an answer. We feel that this is not necessary and is an unnecessary bureaucratic burden. With regard to hunting and sports weapons of the hunting and sports organisation, you probably know that, at each end of membership, they must inform the administrative unit that the membership has ceased. It is said that this verification under point 4 is not necessary because all these organisations are legally obliged to notify. However, as far as the security weapon is concerned, the individual must prove and prove at the time of the first submission, this is a very strict verification, I know how it runs that he is actually entitled to such a piece. If it has another piece, it is probably not worth proving again. If he meets all the legal requirements for the first piece, he is likely to meet them for the second. He probably doesn't carry two or three at the same time, just like hunters don't carry three guns on each other. Sportsmen sometimes do, if competitions with different weapons and triathlons are with three categories, with a rifle, a semi-automatic rifle and a shotgun you fire once, so the sportsmen have more than one. I don't know any hunter who'd have more than two with me. I don't know anyone who has a security weapon to have more than one piece with me. So he had to show for the first piece and probably the same reasons remain for the second piece. That is why we felt that this was the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. I've already told you what concerns us most is this 13th article. This seems to us to be one of the most controversial amendments adopted on the committee. According to the new legislation, the weapons instruments of the most strictly regulated category A will also be obtained by individuals who are members of a shooting organisation which has the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence, and with sport, excuse me, have absolutely no connection. Since you have spoken all the time and the European Directive does not travel to such solutions, it is a pure plant that is strictly targeted. And I'll tell you first what kind of weapon we're talking about. We are talking about automatic firearms, which have been converted into semi-automatic firearms, we are talking about semi-automatic firearms with a central charger, semi-automatic long-range firearms, with a central charge stamp, which is said to be a weapon originally designed to fire from a shoulder that can be shot with a folding or telescope hoof or a hoof that can be taken without using a tool, reduced to less than 60 centimeters of total length without losing its functionality. See, according to the original proposal that you have upgraded with this amendment, the arms documents could be obtained exclusively by members of the shooting sports organization, which is a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the association of sports associations or the internationally and officially recognised Sports Shooting Association. According to the original proposal, this weapon would indeed be intended for the reasons of sport, as colleague Grims stressed today, and this would be given to sports shooters. But no, you have tabled an amendment in the SDS and NSI that will allow members of shooting organisations, non-governmental organizations that do not engage in sports, but work in the field of defence. And who is it? We all know that this amendment is literally written directly on the skin of the VSO Sagittarius, which is close to the SDS party. This is a pure abuse of this law for some partisan purpose, for an organisation close to the ruling SDS, and this is no doubt. Now I'm going to show you what else is going on with this organization. This organization is smooth on its website, apparently so sovereign, it publishes things that are very interesting. Let's take a look at the first picture. Let's take a good look at this picture and see what kind of weapon this is. In this picture, we see two shooters with rifles whose platform is the fence of the U.S. military rifle M16, the shooter on the right has a 60-gun charger and both guns are already falling into category A and could, as a rule, only members of a sports organisation that is a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – associations of sports associations or internationally recognised Sports Sagittarius, which is not. But they're already doing it, even though this law has not been passed. And now they will give this law a legal basis so that they can do so. And let's look at another picture that's even more interesting from their website. We see VSOs, members, members who fire semi-automatic M59 rifles. It is a rifle that is still being used, I stress, still being used by the guard of the Slovenian Army. So it's an official military weapon and they shouldn't be using it. Not only that, all these shooters have bayonets and trombone adapters attached to their rifles. The mouth of the tube has an outer thread. It is therefore a special equipment for weapons which, under the current law, belongs to category A for which so-called sportsmen of arms documents cannot really obtain. But how do you get around it? So you just roll out the trombone and bayonet, carry the gun to the administrative unit, legalize it, and then you back up a little bit. This is an absolute prohibited weapon under the current law, which the VSO is already using and even publishing on its website. Here we can actually see even the falango VSO, which handles these weapons and also have bayonets. How interesting! And this can also partially explain why the SDS and NSI are working so hard with the amendment to legalize the bayonet adapters, although I was previously told how some rifles, I don't know, would probably have their beauty distorted if they didn't have these bayonets. If we take a look at what the existing law says, which is clearly in violation of the VSO, which it has violated and is still in breach until a new basis is adopted. In short, special equipment for weapons also includes external winding pipes and other fittings intended for the installation of silencers or military equipment, such as tromblonic sockets. This is where we saw the trombone extension. Tromblon is a special equipment belonging to category A which is prohibited under the current law, as stated. And weapons will be banned even if a novelty is adopted. This is said to be a smooth handshake by the VSO, which is absolutely prohibited. In some cases, these sportsmen will also be able to obtain arms documents for certain A points, but not for special equipment and not for tromblones. As far as bayonets are concerned, I have explained earlier that they are still being used by the army, an honorary guard. It is said that the VSO should absolutely not use this, so it works unlawfully. Madam Secretary, you are the president of this company. The president of the company must take care of the legal functioning of the company, the person responsible for the legality of the company. No one other than Secretary-in-Charge of God, Mr. Speaker, is the President of the VSO, who has already been proven to be doing illegal things. And if you don't believe me, that's the third picture. Here you see him, and there he was in the picture before, and it didn't look good. Here you see him standing with his companions training and practicing with weapons, in fact in an illegal way, with a weapon that is banned and now apparently creating a legal basis for them to legalize most of their activities. Well, apparently not yet. In these debates, it has been very clear that sportsmen are really disciplined as to how legislation is respected and so on. You've been stressing that all along. But here we really see even a handful of VSOs handling weapons illegal by law. I wonder what you're gonna say about that. Do you have anything to say? How will you explain the illegal activity and make it legal? Are you going to be punished? Probably not. In these times, it is certainly not under this authority, for you are so audacious that you publish what you are publishing. Although sports shooting is not as exemplary as some of you wanted to show. We have really top-notch sportsmen who are at the top of the world. We all know that. Some of the outstanding athletes we can actually be proud of and are in the world summit itself. But where is the problem in practice? That every sportsman gets a whole bunch of people who have never seen the competition, but who get the results so that they can get the guns just so that they don't get the big calibre to blow up and destroy the target range. That's what's going on. We were wondering what was going on in practice. And now it is also proposed that the weapons of the most strictly regulated category A will, for sport's sake, be given to members of some quasi defence organisations, such as this VSO, which I have just shown you, who are not members of any international sporting association at all. And I'm curious about the logic in which these people are supposed to get it. Collectors, as they say, will suddenly collect the most modern weapon. They can have it. I don't know what's at home. Why would collectors have modern weapons? Collectors usually collect some archival weapons, something that is of minor museum value, but not that they will even have weapons at home. This explanation of the telescope rods — please! It's clear. Protesters today are punished only because they have a wooden stick on which they have a banner. And that's already a felony. I don't know whether it's because of a banner or because of a stick that's wooden, an innocent stick, a stick, a straw against it, against a telescopic stick that's known to be used by neo-Nazi groups as part of its arsenal. And that will be legal now, my people! They will be able to wave and parade unpunished with these sticks, and now it will be a normal thing. This is becoming normalisation and the legalisation of such matters, so forgive me, these set-ups in the transposition of the European Directive are extremely controversial and extremely dangerous. Therefore, this law must be rejected in this form, not only because of Article 13, but also because of many other things. But Article 13 is a disaster. That's why I think we should get down on the ground and stop. Then my friend Grimes will tell me we're demagogos. You're the demagog that says it's for sport. No, I've shown you where all this is absolutely not for sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Dr. Bozo Predaliè has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sukich, let me respond to your allegations. First of all, I'm appalled by such pure lies and accusations and manipulation. If we touch the pictures first. Yeah, well, I'm gonna talk about these pictures right now. The first weapon you showed was AR-15. This is actually an American assault rifle performance. But you obviously don't know there are civilian and military versions. In a civilian version, you can only have half-automatic shooting and nothing else. All these guns, including those — when you told me that I was in the picture, I am in the picture — are legal, under all the laws of the armed documents under the law in force. Here to say that this is a forbidden weapon is a pure lie, and to break the law is a lie and a drowning. That's the first one. The second picture, which you have theatrically displayed, comes from even further back and is from the Bulgarian Police. Three, four, five years ago, the military enabled all civil society working with the military in the framework of civilian movements to present weapons in order to perhaps get young people to get interested and so on. And this M-49 weapon was brought in by the military, put the army to the test, the use. First she introduced them, then she gave them a shot, then she taught them how to shoot and try to get interested people to join the Slovenian Army. If there's anything illegal here, then sue the Ministry of Defense, not the VSO Sagittarius. The third picture you showed, however, after a game where everyone was also legally shooting with legal weapons, the game was declared and there was absolutely no dispute. I don't know, but we are those shooters who are united within the VSO in a shooting organisation that is a legal shooting society legally registered in an administrative unit, with the statute in force, operating under the statute, all shooters have valid weapons documents for all the weapons they use, or we black sheep, we're brown that we can't have a shooting company and have games. That's incomprehensible to me. If anything illegal has been done, please file a complaint, I call you, report what is illegal, and then charge. But as for this work, when you were talking about shooting organisations that were supposed to give confirmation that the shooters were also competing with this type of weapon. Look, these categories of weapons, this is 6-A, 7-A, 7-B and 8-A, this weapon is now legal. Certain shooters have it. If you remember when the first reading of this law was, the biggest controversy was where Minister Poklukar sharpened the law to that extent, probably to a good extent, he didn't even know that he had eliminated the entire sector of tactical shooting and simply couldn't compete at all. That's why it was a tendency to spread. You have major problems with a shooting organisation that operates in the public interest in the field of defence. Look, a shooting organization isn't just any non-governmental organization. For the first time, there must be a shooting society or a association of shooting societies that must act under the law on societies and meet the conditions for a shooting society. It's not some non-governmental organization like it's on the Metelkova or on the Horn. However, if this company meets the conditions that it has acquired the status of a society acting in the public interest in the field of defence and that those contestants that it has within its society must not be certified to train and compete with this type of weapon, I do not know what the problem is here. Maybe I'll tell you what's in it. This is not just the VSO, it is the Union of Slovenian Officers, which has a shooting organization within it. They have regular games and they work, they have the status of a society acting in the public interest in the field of defence - and the Union of Slovenian Officers should not give its members confirmation that they are training and competing with this type of weapon? There is also the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia. This is the Moris Union. A lot of sports shooting societies are within the ILO, which has the status of society and operates in the public interest in the field of defence. But it is also a VSO, which is as I would say, a thorn in the heel. And other organizations are still here. Look, if we don't trust the Union of Officers, veterans and all those who have created this country fighting for it, today we won't trust them to train with those weapons they're officially authorized to use, yes, and then I really don't know. If the VSO is such a problem, then we write a law, make an amendment so that everyone but the VSO can. Please, let's be democratic and have the same vats for everyone!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Yes, Madam Secretary, but you still haven't explained the tromblona to me. Tromblon is prohibited, falls under this category and will also be prohibited under the new law. It's in the picture. Thrombonic extension. You didn't explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Please respect the speaker. Okay. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 13, which is essentially the same as the amendment tabled by the left-wing group. We, too, find this part that has been added extremely controversial. Article 17a is key to what we talked about before, i.e. for sportsmen. It introduces a reasonable reason for issuing an arms document on the grounds of sport. We agreed with the amendment, which was proposed to transform the national trade union into what is now being written. Thus we were also warned by a number of organisations, which will now have the opportunity to participate and participate in sports shooting competitions. However, let me remind you that points 6a, 7 and 8a of the weapons category after recategorisation are, of course, among the prohibited weapons. That is why this Article 17a is being introduced, which provides a reasonable reason for the issuance of the arms document also for these weapons for sport. It is therefore incomprehensible that you are actually introducing non-governmental organisations in the public interest in the field of defence. What does such organisation have to do with the legitimate reason for issuing a sports document for sport? Any sports organisation competing within the framework of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions or the international and officially recognised Sports Shooting Association will have the opportunity to purchase such weapons, compete with and use such weapons. In doing so, there is a certain fear raised by colleague Sukič. Not to mention any possible security guards and non-guards that the Ministry may or may not grant them the status of an organization in the field of defence, and these weapons - prohibited weapons - could be purchased. While we agree with Article 17a, in the form that has been written, with the exception that the phrase “which have the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest and act in the field of defence” is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	Look, this is really becoming a polygon, unfortunately, on behalf of all athletes, for demagogy. When we talk about these guns, which has now been spoken so dramatically by Mrs Sukičev and now Mr Nick Prebil has upgraded, it is necessary to say that after the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, every athlete who has met the conditions for the arms document and has it, he can also buy such weapons, regardless of which club he was in. Now it's time to narrow it down. That is to say, limit it to those who will be explicitly listed in marriage. One of the criteria they proposed is that it would also have those, this is an additional narrowing if someone does not understand who are acting in the public interest in the defence field. And you're the one who's giving it a hard time. Please! Secondly, what was said before was well said was that the game, when you showed the second picture, was organized by the army, with military weapons provided by the Slovenian Army. That's why she had all this extra equipment. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Sorry, time's up. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Amendments will be decided on Friday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Seven. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. It's a day's work. This is the first defence proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on organisation and police work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Group of 43 Members and Members, with the first signed Matjaz Han, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Dear Presidents, honourable Members, allow me to briefly present the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and work of the police, which, in our view, has been shown to be the biggest remedy for the shortcomings which have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the applicable law so far. The aim of this law is to ensure a more flexible and better organisation of the police, so that it can respond more quickly to all security challenges and that the implementation of the requirements of the professional agreement, that is, from the part where we agreed with the unions, how to proceed, is also de facto implemented. I will present the most important proposed amendments and amendments to the law very quickly and essential solutions are the following. When assessing the procedure under the Police Guidance and Control Rules, there is a dilemma as to whether it is a form of control and what powers supervisors can use. The proposal defines the so-called reporting requirement as part of the supervisory activity, lays down the powers of supervisors and the legal basis for obtaining data from the event record and the rights of public servants carrying out surveillance of police work in the form of a permanent allowance. Because of the different views on the Minister's competence to guide the police in the pre-trial proceedings, the situation in which the Prosecutor was informed of the crime is more clearly regulated, but he did not take the lead. In this case, police officers act independently within the framework of legal powers and are subject to supervision by their superiors. In view of the amendment to the Regulation on the cooperation of the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and other competent national authorities and institutions in the detection and prosecution of offenders and the functioning of specialised and joint investigation teams, which is issued under Article 160a, paragraph 5, of the Criminal Procedure Act, and further regulates all activities also with regard to the taking-over of police work in the pre-trial procedure, the amendment proposes the deletion of various guidelines or different arrangements relating to these powers. With regard to the National Investigation Office, I would like to point out that this is an internal organisational unit of the Directorate of Criminal Police. The law makes it clear that the Office is autonomous in its investigation of crimes and in its way of determining which investigations into suspected crimes will take place. Not like I said yesterday that it can't be self-serving. The draft law also deletes the provisions on the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of the National Investigation Office and the procedure is the same as for all other public servants. The internal security records maintained by the police in the administration for the purpose of carrying out police duties and ensuring internal security shall be determined and shall be supplemented by provisions on the security verification of tenderers, customers and persons for the performance of police work or for the performance of works at the premises of the police in accordance with a contract signed by them in accordance with the rules governed by public procurement laws. It shall also specify a limitation for a policeman who shall not be a member of political parties during the duration of the relationship and shall not act as a professional mayor or a professional sub-discipliner or a municipal councillor. A procedure shall be laid down for obtaining positions in the posts of Head of Organizational Units at the first level of the General Police Administration, the Director of Police Administration and the Chief of Police, which shall no longer be the Chief of Staff; it shall be named after a new one, by temporary redeployment for a period of five years and by reasons for termination. In accordance with the professional agreement, it is stipulated that the employees of the police and public servants of the Ministry who carry out support tasks for the police may be paid up to 20% of the basic salary due to increased labour and special burdens. It is specified that police officers are not entitled to strike at the time of their operation under Article 107, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police in the event of police operations in the event of natural and other accidents, in crisis, in war or emergency. The amendments provide for better organisation of the police in the use of the auxiliary police, so that it is clearly determined who cannot participate in the auxiliary police. In compliance with the conditions, it is possible to conclude an auxiliary police contract even after the age of 60, the payment of the auxiliary police officer and the reimbursement of the costs and the conditions for termination or termination of the contract with the candidate. Your Honor! I believe that the solutions presented in the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and work of the police are appropriate and I propose that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	Dearly beloved, once again a very nice greeting! Today we have a law that means improvement, a significant improvement in the police situation so far. It means the police are becoming more connected to the local environment. In some ways, this may even be a step back compared to a period before the police were well integrated into the local environment, and this left me with not entirely understandable reasons in areas where this would be positive. And now this is going back to the original situation in the area where it makes sense and necessary. The second is that this is how more modern police are set up. The police, where no unit will be anything special, but they will act in a uniform manner and will therefore be more confidently successful than they have been before. Specifically. The NPU has not solved a single rebuttal crime case in Slovenia. What has been done in this area has all been achieved by the criminal police. It is therefore only right to finally make order in this area and to put those who even some publicly boasted that they have not resolved anything, that they have not explored anything and that this was actually their goal, in place of what the police are going to be: an effective, unified, apolitical organisation in the pursuit of crime and in the protection of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and their property. This law is a step in the right direction because it simplifies procedures, because it precisely sets out the rules of the game even when it comes to sending police officers abroad, even when it comes to their education, when it comes to the process of progressing and internal education, in short, it puts things at the point when it is possible to apply as much as possible as possible as a criterion of actual professionalism and not a possible tendency to former militias or whatever has been said in the past. Unfortunately, it's been something over the years, and it's been too much. The police must be effective, the police must be uniform to all, the police must not in any case have double criteria and the police must be adequately professional, technical, human resources, financial, and comprehensively equipped to fully ensure these tasks. In the field of organisation and police work, this law also puts this in the right place. From this point of view, it is certainly fully and unconditionally supported by the SDS Group. We also support the steps that lead to greater depoliticisation, which represent the exact rules of the game, so that it will no longer be possible to speak, as if partying is one, working in local authorities, such as the mayor, the mayor and so on, and this is something else. At the time when the Slovenian Constitution was being established, it was set up in this way because it was assumed that political action would go primarily through political parties. Today, when the flood and the sea are leaves, apoliticalness is, of course, also needed to be understood in this sense of the word. From this point of view, what is proposed is right, even fair to the police officers themselves, that there are no double criteria here and that there should be no more conflict in the future in this area. In the SDS, we will unitedly support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we are extremely critical of the proposal for a law that we are also opposed to in this law. I'll explain why. You'll find it hard to convince me that it's not the political police, said the Home Secretary and resigned a good year ago. He's still an interior minister today. Why? Because he failed to complete the mission because it was not yet a political police force, as the SDS party had imagined, the party which runs the department voluntarily while the other coalition supporters were silently observed. True, after the second year of the government of Janez Janša, Hojs ’ words appear prophetic. Now it's gonna be political police. With the consistent deployment of the SDS clients and clients of loyal personnel to all the key positions in the police system, we have moved to a stage when the police are practically politically controlled to change into an extended policy hand. Now it has to be legalized. The proposed amendment recognises, however, that the legal basis for the modern police organisation, its management and direction has been regulated so far. That's what it says in the paper. That the powers between the Ministry of the Interior and the police were clearly exchanged. That's what they wrote in the explanation. And this is also stated in the List of Marjan Šarc, which ran the department of the government of Marjan Šarc. If the law needs to be amended, it should certainly be in the spirit of increasing the protection of the autonomy of the police, preventing political interference with the work and specific police procedures and establishing a career system of the police. The aim of this bill is to ensure better organisation and functioning of the police, says the proposer. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, we believe that this is a major error. The aim is to fully subdue the police and their employees and thus fully control every police move. It's a step towards the real political police. From now on, the leadership of the police will be forced into political orientations, otherwise they will follow immediate exchanges without verifiable ground. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we draw attention to some of the key intentions of the ruling policy, which we believe you cannot and should not support in the coalition and supporters of this coalition. You cannot and must not, if you do not want the Slovenian police to become an instrument for concealing suspicious SDS transactions and certain government Februarys against which various investigations are ongoing. In the Marjana Sharca Letter, we strongly oppose the deletion of the key legal standard on the delimitation of the police relationship with the State Prosecutor's Office. This means, in particular, the extension of the powers of the Minister of Home Affairs. Thus, through the supervisors of the Police Directorate and other security tasks, it will have the legal opportunity to be informed of the contents of open criminal cases before the competent state prosecutor is involved in a specified criminal case and the Minister may also influence them. It is therefore a grave political intervention in the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office in the conduct of the pre-trial procedure, which was also very strongly pointed out by state prosecutors. There is another unacceptable and grave interference with the autonomy of the police and the prosecution. Officials of the Minister's Directorate of Guidance and Control would be given powers to control pending criminal matters. So officials from the Ministry would be able to enter the premises used by the police in their work in a specific forecasting procedure, access police records and documentation, and conduct interviews with police officers, other police officers or individuals. In this way, politics would have a direct view of the specific criminal procedure. In the List of Marjan Šarca we see this as completely unacceptable. Since this government's appearance, the National Investigation Office has been marred by the dismantling of this criminalist unit. The direct subordination of the National Investigation Office to the Administration of the Criminal Police and its Director is the end of the autonomy of the NPU. The Director of the NPU will no longer decide on anything, nor what the NPU will investigate at all. The NPU will no longer be in practice, so it remains only on paper. After removing criminals from the NPU, who investigated suspicious purchases of protective and medical equipment and SDS financing from the Prime Minister through the political loyal leadership of the police, after the policy has been spearheaded by the National Investigation Office, the National Investigation Office will now be fully amputated by the National Investigation Office of all decision-making powers. These are key provisions of this law which, according to the opinion of the List of Marjan Šarc, must not be adopted in any way if we want to keep the police, as we know them and as we respect them, the police as a public service of all citizens, but not as a tool to defend the ruling policy. Although we do not see any need in the LMŠ for the third Deputy Director-General of the Police. This will be just one more place to strengthen the political impact on the top of the police, and redefinitioning jobs is nothing more than a political clean-up between the leadership staff of the police at the state, regional and local levels, so we strongly oppose it. We are also opposed to a time-limit for the leadership within the Police with the possibility of extending the mandate. This makes it highly likely to politicize the Police and the clientalist and non-repressive choice of individuals for managerial jobs within the Police. The complete expulsion of police officers from public affairs cooperation will, in our belief, be difficult to contain constitutional judgment. That a police officer may not be a member of a political party is a constitutional order anyway. However, that he should not participate in public affairs or at the local level, that is, not in the local authorities, not in the supervisory authorities, but in the political party, has nothing to do with his membership. However, it means discrimination against a police officer as a member of the community, which is, of course, hypocrisy, because the Police Director came directly from political functions. The new director of the Maribor Police Administration is a municipal councillor and has run for mayor. What parallels. The transitional and final provisions stipulate that the selection procedures for the management of positions shall be initiated within three months of the application of this Act. This practically legalises the possibility of “legal replacements” of all management staff in positions of office. The current police station commanders will replace the new police station commanders. The minister said they'd just be called different, they'd be called chiefs. The implementation of these provisions opens the possibility of formal legal replacement of all those leaders in positions that have not yet been replaced. All of this is happening in a situation where the government of Janez Janša has degraded the officer’s profession to the lowest possible level. Forcing police officers, enforcing even illegal measures by this government has led to an unfavourable response among people. Trust in the police is at the lowest level in the history of this country. That's sad. That's how this government destroyed the reputation of the police in one year at a time. It is unfair and unfair, however, for police officers who have done their job properly and have always been supportive and helpful to people, not an instrument for the repression of the nation. It is unfair, because, on the other hand, the Minister is employed in bringing citizens and European officials together, he does not do much to address the staffing difficulties in the police. This is solved by increasing the presence of auxiliary police officers, which are currently the worst paid penitentiary labour force in Slovenia. For night, Sunday, or holiday work, they don't get a dime extra. The net hourly item for both day and night, as well as Sunday work, and the holiday work only for a small amount exceeds 4 euros per hour. The Ministry of the Interior and the leadership of the Police are not solving the human resources problem with motivation and fair pay, but with demands for increased labour. It will be difficult for you, Minister, to convince me that this is not a political police matter. That's exactly what this law is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The word is given by Predrag Baković, who will present to us the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u244	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! To the police and police officers whose mission is primarily to ensure the security of individuals and communities, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to strengthen the rule of law, the population of the Republic of Slovenia has always shown great respect and confidence. But unfortunately, this trust has been declining in the last year. Probably not because of police and police officers, but because of the management of the Ministry of the Interior, the management of the police and, ultimately, because of the constant political interference with the work of the Slovenian police. This political intervention is also reflected in the dissatisfaction of police employees and, last but not least, in legislation, including today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. Even though the government, at the time of the amendment, has indicated that the proposed solutions seek to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law in practice, and that the main guide to change is the more effective functioning of the police as a whole, we doubt these allegations. Social Democrats believe that the government, with the proposed amendment of the law, is primarily seeking to politically subordinate the police and to take their autonomy in the exercise of their constitutional and legal duties. Moreover, we estimate that the individual solutions proposed also stem from purely personal conflicts between the minister and some of the disobedient members of the Slovenian police. Your Honor! Social Democrats, police officers and police officers are appreciated, and we respect their work. We are aware that they are carrying out difficult tasks and that they have been particularly pressured over the past year because of government decisions regarding the control of the epidemic and, on the other hand, subject to criticism by residents who, as has already been said, have had a very positive attitude towards police and police officers in the past. The police are also dealing with the dilution of the police species. There are several reasons for this. Among the young, the job of a police officer is no longer interesting. The crisis led to savings in the public sector in police employment. By the way, this is also reflected negatively in other professions in the public sector, medical personnel, nursing staff at the home of older citizens and so on and also in the Slovenian Army. Moreover, we rushed early retirements, and today we would hire them again. In recent times, political pressure from the top of the ministry and the police has also spurred leaving the police. We are social democrats, and we will support solutions aimed at better organisation and the work of the police by involving police to a greater extent members of the auxiliary police, and their work as professional police officers is being properly evaluated. We also support the solutions agreed between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Union of Slovenia. In accordance with the strike agreements concluded, the proposal for a new law provides that police officers and public servants of the Ministry who carry out police support tasks may be paid up to 20% of the basic salary due to increased workload and special burdens. However, the government has used manoeuvres to introduce some problematic issues into the agreed solutions, which in some ways demonstrates the dishonesty of the government, the ministry and the police, so that the strike agreement does not come true. Moreover, the government is trying with the proposed novelty of organisation and the work of the police to shift the responsibility for possible non-support of the novel to the opposition. They are also certainly aware of this in the union, which have agreed and signed a strike agreement with the Ministry. Notwithstanding the signed strike agreement, the adoption of the proposed amendment would make the legal status of police officers worse, as would the cooperation between the police and the prosecutor's office deteriorate, and as the independent and professional work of police would deteriorate. The novel that lies ahead of us is extremely problematic in some parts, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! Today, there is yet another in a series of laws that are professionally unfounded, harmful and to the extent of power, not people. Like STA, RTV, the Court of Auditors and other indispensable building blocks of democratic society are also the police hostage of Janez Janša. For the police to face a shortage of personnel, it's been a fact for years. Poor working conditions and low starting wages are certainly the reason for such a situation. However, the situation has further exacerbated the continued abuse of the police for exclusively political purposes, which we have witnessed over the past year. First, human resources clearance and the setting of loyal political supporters to all the highest positions in the Police, then internal accounting with all whose visible colour spectrum extends beyond yellow and blue. Those who are disturbed by the government are assigned to different working groups. Tacen is already supposed to turn into a sanctioning department for other thinkers. The Minister, who is not at all, since he has long since resigned, proves once again every day that he is completely incompetent to run the ministry. The most repressive ministry is run by someone who does not understand why laws and repressive measures should be published and made publicly available to all. The Minister, who watches over the repressive body, whose civil control is the essential element of democratic regulation, obstructs and introduces his control when he considers it necessary to do so through his thumb. The Minister, who does not understand the basic point of independence of the police and who thinks that directing police work means giving instructions through social networks, wants to bring all this profound misunderstanding of the functioning of the state, let alone democratic and legal states, into law now. Today's law only strengthens the fact that the only professionally justified decision taken by Minister Hojs in this mandate in the form of a resignation statement remains unreadable in the Janša drawer. Since virtually every act of Minister Hojs in the past year has proved to be contrary to the law in force, the Minister has decided to simply change the law. Isn't it right for a minister to get involved in police personnel every day? Isn't it legal that the minister gives the police instructions through social media? The law states that the police are independent of their work? Not anymore. The law would change everything. Instead of adapting his conduct to the law in force, Minister Hojs will rather adapt the law to his conduct. All of this is a very clear reminder of how quickly repressive authorities can turn against the people. This was evident throughout the entire epidemic. The police should protect the people, not survive them. Police should protect deprived groups and minorities and not terrorize them. That the police have turned on the people in the last year, it's not the police's fault. It's Janez Janša and the retired Minister Hojs. Through the staff clearing in which the entire police leadership was replaced and through internal accounts and controls over all those who are not sufficiently serviceable and who are not sufficiently susceptible, the current government has fully subordinated itself to the police in order to achieve narrow political objectives. It did not fight the epidemic with professionally justified and urgent measures, but with excessive use of repression. The police have not taken care of the closure of production halls where workers have suffered from the entire epidemic. No, the police robbed the same workers if they ate lunch together or drove to work in the same car. Nor did the police punish employers who did not provide workers with a safe working environment and adequate protective equipment. Instead, she preferred to punish a passerby who enjoyed a burek on an empty public staircase. To make no mistake, we are in Levica and still believe in restrictive measures. We have always advocated limiting and stopping public life where this was justified. But this government has introduced measures about as if it were choosing them with a bicycle of happiness. When it came to capital benefits, it simply ignored the necessary measures. Instead of protecting people, especially vulnerable groups, from the epidemic, she put them to death. It has used the epidemic to achieve its political objectives and to introduce a whole range of repressive measures against the general public, which is another of the eccentric cases of epidemic abuse and abuse of power. However, all the overly repressive and violent tools used by the police in their work were offered by the government of Mir Cerar and the government of Marjan Sarca with the paralyzers, the hunters of IMSI and military weapons, the thermovision cameras and could still be listed. The police weren't armed by Janez Janš. Janez Janša merely made sure that what Miro Cerar and Marjan Sarec had given her instead of protecting people, the police directed at them. When we in Levica warned that mass video surveillance could be misused very quickly, for example against protestors, and allow mass punishment, we were given the impression that we were always only against everything and that it was political speculation. Today, a police van armed with a video camera is present at every protest. In what way will this video surveillance be used against protestors, the Minister of Public Affairs informs the public through social networks. For all the reasons mentioned above, we signed a request for a general discussion on the amendment of the law on police organisation and work. It is imperative that we stop this law today. Let's see why. The law allows political involvement in open criminal proceedings. The Minister would like to ensure the impact on the course of criminal investigations. The prosecution of directing and conducting investigations would no longer be independent. And Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs could see to it that their pals are completely untouchable. On the other hand, it could be easier to eliminate political opponents. The intimidation and attempts to prosecute anyone who disagrees with the government would be institutionalised. The provision that the orientation of the police at the time of notification of the criminal procedure be taken over by the state prosecutor would be so simply deleted. This would fully open up opportunities for political interference and obstruction of prosecution. In the light of ensuring the inviolability of criminals of true colours, the law also applies to NPUs. That independence and expertise are the last qualities that Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs want to see at the NPU are clear. Since it was not different, the NPU Director was removed by the latter illegally. The NPU must operate according to the SDS measure. Hojs and Kangler direct him on the basis of e-mails sent to them by their friends, such ones as the multimillion-dollar exploitation of prostitution. Hoys and Kangler just wanted to help a friend as if it were a little bureaucratic obstacle. You know, crows don't turn off their eyes. The subordination of the NPU is so high on the SDS Wish List that it will limit the scope of operation in which the NPU is autonomous. The autonomy will no longer be in the performance of all its tasks, but only in the investigation of crimes. Not without the minister breathing down his collar. For example, an internal act setting out what the NPU would investigate will no longer be adopted on the proposal of the Director of the NPU, but the Director of the Administrative Criminal Police will also have to make such a proposal. This must be influenced by as many officials and officials as possible, who can be recruited solely by political criteria. The correction of the law is also proposed by Minister Hojs with regard to the appointment and discharge of the Director of the NPU. Since the court has also confirmed that the Director's discharge was illegal and that the Minister of Director of this important office cannot set up by a mile, it proposes that this regime should simply be changed. Moreover, the possibility of human resources clearance and the setting up of the most loyal political personnel extends to all the leading positions in the police. Management positions will be held only with transfers without invitation to tender or with the application of rules applicable throughout the public administration. The special arrangement will also apply to discharges, the main word being the Director-General of the Police, the one set by the Minister. In order to reward the most loyal supporters of Janez Janša, there are two new well-paid jobs in the proposal: a new, third, Deputy Director-General of Police and a police attaché. In addition, it allows additional employment of border police officers. If, under the current legislation, temporary employment could only be concluded for the control of the external borders of the European Union, they could, in the new way, be able to protect the entire state border. These are jobs for which lower professional standards are required and where no public publication or public tender is required. For the most faithful staff in the police and the Ministry, an allowance for permanence and higher wages is also available for increased labour. On a proposal from the Minister, the increase in wages will be decided by the government, which is the only way to ensure that the criteria of belonging and loyalty of the SDS are respected and not the criteria of expertise and the scope of the work done. In order to prevent any controversial changes in the police force from organising and resisting too actively, the law further limits the right to strike and adds some additional possibilities for termination of the employment contract. The possibility of a police officer being suspended should this be proposed by a medical commission, a commission called the politically appointed Police Director General. Although it seems to some that all of the marital solutions in question are extensive, believe me, I listed only a few. This should already be more than enough for this law to complete its legislative path today. The objective of the solution is clearly one alone: the complete and comprehensive submission of the police to the political interests of Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs. The already large-scale repression that the retired minister has against the people will be able to exacerbate these changes, while the repressive apparatus will beat people, and the Prime Minister and the Minister will be able to intervene unimpeded in open criminal investigations and ensure that the wrong people are not persecuted. The shelter in which criminals, loyal to the SDS, operate will only make this law more peaceful and only safer. The fact is that the functioning of the police over the past year is directed at a completely wrong goal, and that is what our fully justified findings refer to. The current government has made sure that all available repressive means are directed not for but against people. It is an eccentric abuse of the repressive apparatus and the abuse of power, and this law will make the abuse of repression and authority a perfectly legal tool for lustration and accounting with political opponents, while the most loyal personnel will be granted the status of the untouchable and the repressive apparatus will continue to strike at people. In Levi, we will certainly oppose the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u248	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The law on police organisation and work was adopted in the basic form in 2013. In order to ensure greater efficiency and rationalisation of police work, it has been updated six times so far. So this is the seventh novel of this law. The interest of the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure a high level of security and thus quality of life for all inhabitants. The basic conditions for this are the consistent respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and the systematic prevention of unlawful interference with human privacy and rights. These principles are also based on a policy to ensure the internal security of the Republic of Slovenia, which seeks to establish and operate an effective and rational system of internal security. In New Slovenia, of course, we advocate such a policy towards internal security, which will provide citizens with a high level of security, which is also a condition for an adequate quality of life. The core of the internal security system is the police. We are advocating a modern and high-response police force that will act in a comparable manner with other European police. One of the chief police leaders should be respect for human rights and the adoption of control as enshrined in the Constitution and laws. The police should be in the service of citizens to support and support them, not just a criminal body burdened with high red tape and tasks that are not his or her primary responsibility. In New Slovenia we advocate that the police work in good conditions with modern and effective equipment. For the smooth and efficient work of the Slovenian police, it is necessary to improve the conditions for its work in particular. We need a police force that will have the reputation and trust of people, must do everything to ensure that people trust Slovenian police to protect their assets and ensure peace. The proposal for a new law on organisation and police work is more clearly regulated. More appropriate supervision of the police is also possible. Citizens in the police must first recognize support and support, not just repression and punishment. It can contribute to improving the reputation of the police from the point of view of organisation and management, and police officers must be the key. That is why we need an arrangement that will, as far as possible, take into account the situation and needs of police personnel. In particular, we welcome the fact that some practical issues are being addressed in the paper, which will allow for more favourable treatment of employees and attracting trained staff to work in the police force. These include, for example, solutions to the novel, such as the temporary transfer of a police officer to another post for a medical reason, which is not currently possible. It's an hour's work to be taken care of, say, of a working dog. It is established that successful practical training during education can also be considered as a successful traineeship. It is possible to appoint to the same level of title and classification in the same class of payment as before the end of the working relationship in the case of reinstatement in the police. The payment of the assistant officer and the reimbursement of his expenses shall be adjusted. In addition, it is provided that, at the time of the implementation of the aid, the person assisting the police has the right to adequate care. This solution specifically refers to the principle of cooperation between police officers and all other citizens, which is also of particular symbolic importance in addition to practical value. The Novela also takes into account the fact that the security situation today can change extremely rapidly, so it is also possible to recruit auxiliary police officers in cases where the various security phenomena require a larger number of police officers. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will support the draft law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings from the Minister with a co-worker! Dear Members and Members, you too have a good greeting! Today we have a first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which was tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure. The aim of the bill is to remedy some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law in practice. The main guide in the preparation of the changes is the more effective functioning of the police than the whole. Let me give you a few areas that are undergoing the necessary changes or additions. The provisions on the direction and control of police work are being amended or supplemented. As a result, the article defining the so-called reporting requirement and the new article setting out the rights of public servants exercising control over police work shall also be supplemented. Under the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Regulation, police officers shall inform the public prosecutors of all cases established by this Regulation where there are grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed. The second paragraph of Article 5 of the Regulation provides that the competent State prosecutor may, upon receipt of the notification immediately and within five days at the latest, submit to the police written instructions and proposals for action in the forecasting procedure in accordance with Article 12 of this Regulation. If he fails to submit instructions and proposals at that time, he shall be deemed not to direct the forecasting procedure but may be subsequently included in the cases in question. For the purposes of this Regulation, the guidance of the forecasting procedure shall be set out in Articles 10 to 18 thereof. The first paragraph of Article 10 of the Regulation provides that a police officer dealing with a particular case must inform of the activities carried out and the results of the State Prosecutor when directing the forecasting procedure. If the Public Prosecutor does not take the lead, the police shall act independently within the framework of the legal powers they have to detect perpetrators and criminal offences and may apply all legal measures in this context. In order to avoid the exchange of information and guidance that is present in the existing dictatorship of paragraph 8 of this Article, and to misinterpret and explain that the competent State prosecutor conducts targeted police work in pre-arranged procedures in all cases where he has been informed of the crime, the proposed formulation is more appropriate and also allows it to determine whether the competent State Prosecutor has really guided or directs the police's work in the pre-arrangement procedure for a particular offence. The proposed amendment does not change the Minister's mandate, as the Law on Police Organisation and Work and the Police Guidance and Control Regulation already regulate the systematic and planned provision of mandatory instructions and guidance for police work in terms of assessing the legality, protection of human rights and the actual situation in a particular area of police activity. In accordance with criminal procedural law, in our forecasting system, the sole prosecutor is the one who can direct the police in the exercise of police powers in the forecasting process and the proposed amendment does not change this in any way. Only the situation in which the state prosecutor was informed of the crime is resolved, but has not taken the lead, and therefore the Minister's direction in relation to the provision in force. In these cases, the police are not subject to any supervision, which may be inadequate and the proposed amendment also eliminates them. The amendment also makes it clearer to determine the autonomy of the National Investigation Office and the manner in which investigations into suspected crimes will be undertaken by the Office. It is also established that the National Investigation Office, in carrying out its tasks, is autonomous and, more specifically, provides that this Office is autonomous in the investigation of criminal offences. It is an internal organisational unit of the Directorate of Criminal Police, which means that its autonomy is not absolute, but that the unit and the Director of the Office are subordinated to the Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police. The National Investigation Office shall be autonomous in the investigation of offences referred to in Article 21, paragraph 1, of the law. In addition, the proposal for a novelty governs the security verification of tenderers, customers and persons for the performance of police duties or for the performance of works at police premises in accordance with a contract concluded under public procurement or bonding rules. All tenderers and persons referred to in the new article have already been screened by the police in accordance with the Article of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The police will also re-examine a client who is not a provider under public procurement rules and intends to conclude a contract for the execution of works with the police, in order to ensure the security of data, staff, premises, facilities or the environment of the police, where this security cannot be ensured through the measures set out in the facility protection plan, the house order or other security measures. These are examples in which the Ministry of the Interior or the police conclude with a party, for example, an author's translation contract, and we can specifically say interpretation. So far, the police have not been able to verify the security of the parties who have not entered into a contract under public procurement rules. These parties pose a risk to the security of data, staff, premises, facilities or the environment of the police. With a preventive measure, it is said by a security check, the police will carry out the identified risks. The novel also sets a limit for a policeman who must not be a member of a political party during the working relationship and must not serve as a professional mayor, a professional mayor or a municipal councilor. The proposed amendment establishes the principle of political neutrality for police officers who are not allowed to act politically. At the conclusion of the working relationship, a police officer must make a written declaration that he is not a member of a political party and that membership in a political party is also a reason for the withdrawal of the right to exercise police powers. One of the key solutions is that in the case of a former police officer's re-employment, it is possible to appoint to the same level of title and classification as the same salary class in which the former police officer was appointed or classified prior to the termination of the police employment relationship. In the police itself, there is a great interest in the re-employment of former police officers who, at the time of their employment with education, training and work experience, have acquired and adopted knowledge specific to the police profession and are thus qualified to carry out police work on their own immediately. However, since police officers were generally classified in higher salary classes prior to the end of their employment, and the differences are mostly more than five wage classes, this has a significant negative impact on their material financial situation, which is why, despite their mutual interest, they do not choose to re-employment in the police. With the option of re-employment in the same title and salary class, it would further stimulate potential former police officers with already adopted very needed police knowledge to re-employment in the police, and this would be highly desirable. The novel also provides for better police organisation in the use of auxiliary police and provides, in accordance with the strike agreement concluded, that police officers and public ministry officials carrying out police support tasks may be paid up to 20% of the basic salary due to increased workload and special burdens. This is a solution that is comparable by content to an increase in wages due to an increase in labour and the specific burdens imposed on members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. At the end. The novel also states that a short-term service weapon, which he has had in his personal charge, or another short-term short-term firearms that is older than 12 years of age may be awarded to a policeman after his retirement if a police officer makes a written wish to possess this weapon and makes a written declaration that he will apply for the issuance of an arms document within three months of his retirement. A certificate shall be issued on the intended distribution of firearms. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the solutions are good, so we will vote in favour of this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The views of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u252	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I would be lying if I said today that the proposed changes and additions to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police surprise me. Since the first day of the government's term of office, Janez Janša, we have witnessed actions that point to an extremely strong ambition of the government after supervision. At the time of the appointment of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs in the SAB, we have warned that this is a person who has a great desire for authoritarian leadership and a desire to control those institutions which are autonomous under our constitution and laws. The subjugation and politicisation of the police are also reflected in the growing mistrust of people, and this is what we are really worried about in the SAB. The police must be a service to the citizens, it must be the authority that takes care of security in the country and must by no means be a tool in the hands of the ruling authorities. In the last year and a half, a number of human resources exchanges took place in key positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system. Clearly, it is a politically motivated recruitment. The Director-General of the Police has already been replaced twice, and the most violent responses have been received by personnel at the National Investigation Office. The NPU has been without a director with a full term since the illegal discharge of Dark Male last May. Since October, he has been led by the third acting of Peter Grah Lazar. The difficulties of ruling policies following police rule are also reflected in the proposed law. I will continue to touch on some of the most controversial solutions. It is proposed to delete the legal provision, which according to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is a bearable rule of delimitation in the relationship between the State Prosecutor's Office and the police. This is a standard under which the Prosecutor of State is considered to have taken over the direction of the police's work in the pre-trial procedure at the time when he was informed of the crime. The purpose of this provision is to separate the powers of the Minister from those of the State Prosecutor. The Slovenian Police Union points out that as a result, the minister will be able to intervene in the professional work of the police with direct guidance. We have repeatedly warned the opposition about the unacceptable intervention of the Minister in the work of the police and open criminal proceedings, and now he will adapt all legislation to his conduct. The proposed provisions also concern the organisation and functioning of the NPU. The current regime provides that the NPU is autonomous in the performance of its tasks. In accordance with the proposed regulation, the NPU will be autonomous only when investigating crimes. The fact that the NPU is a thorn in the fifth current government and Minister Hojs is already crystal clear, as it has repeatedly even publicly discredited the work of the Authority. Finally, an investigation into an affair with protective equipment is under the responsibility of the NPU. So it is not surprising that the government wants to limit the autonomy of the authority investigating its most visible representatives. It is also proposed to delete the provisions governing the appointment and discharge of the Director of the NPU. Remember, last May, Darko Maležič was dismissed from office of Director, following the procedure set out in the Law on Public Servants, even though the procedure is governed by the Law on the Organization of Police Work. That his discharge was illegal, the Administrative Court also confirmed that the management of the police could only discharge him for false reasons. There is no doubt, therefore, that the proposed solution to the appointment and discharge of the Director of the NPU is linked to the case of Males. This will make it even easier for the NPU to put the person in charge and thus gain greater control and influence on the work of the body. In the SAB, we are extremely concerned about the impact and interference of the ruling policies with security and intelligence services. With such laws, the government creates a legal basis for its illegal conduct and thus vehemently transforms the country into another republic. In the SAB Group, we doubt that the coalition will be prepared to adapt and delete the most controversial provisions, so we will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The police have their mission, it's to help people, to take care of their security and property security. In the last 15 months, the covida-19 epidemic has marked police work. A number of government measures have affected the structures, systems and processes of the police, which, in addition to regular tasks, have also received new responsibilities to monitor the implementation of numerous and rapidly changing measures to combat the epidemic. The Police Organisation and Work Act defines the organisation, operation and management of police, the specificities of the labour relations of employees within the police and their rights and obligations. It was adopted in 2013 and has been renovated seven times, practically every year. We have before us the eighth amendment to the basic law, which is quite extensive. However, the solutions proposed are designed in particular in the direction of more effective police action. Among all the innovations brought by the proposed amendment to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which have been reduced in sixteen areas, I will stress three key areas. Even earlier, it shows the financial implications of EUR 16.5 million of additional expenditure at the annual level in the amendments to the five articles. Therefore, the first amendment, the more effective exercise of supervisory activities by officials, supervisors of the Ministry of the Interior over the police and the relationship between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. Under the law, the Minister directs the police with written guidelines and instructions, with a medium-term work plan, annual guidelines and individual guidelines where immediate action is needed. However, with regard to individual guidelines, it is particularly specified that the Minister does not have legal powers of direction if the case has already been taken over by the Attorney General. Following the current legislation, it is considered that the State Prosecutor has taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed of the crime. In the next five days, he may provide the police with written instructions for further action. If the Attorney General does not do so, it is considered that he will not direct the work of the police. The proposed amendment removes the situation in which the prosecutor was informed of the crime but did not take the lead. In such a case, it was not possible to direct the Minister. This amendment does not alter or extend the powers of the Minister, but merely regulates the supervision of the work of police officers even in cases where the Prosecutor's Office does not take the lead. The second amendment I am pointing out concerns the National Investigation Office. This police organisation has more effective and effective detection and prosecution of the worst forms of economic crime, corruption and other serious forms of crime. Insinuating that the current government wants to abolish the National Investigation Office in order to destroy its autonomy and thus fully subjugate the police, they are completely unrealistic. The proposal includes a dictatorship that is unequivocal. The National Investigation Office is autonomous in the investigation of criminal offences. It complements, however, the text concerning the internal act by which it is determined which investigations into suspected offences will be undertaken by the Office. Following the current regulation, this act shall be adopted by the Director-General of the Police on a proposal from the Director of the National Investigation Office. The change is foreseen. From now on, there will be two candidates, the Director of the National Investigation Office and the Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police. Whether adding decision-making levels to a highly hierarchical organisational structure such as the police will help to make the work more operational will only show up. In the DeSUS Group, we are currently assessing that such a resolution is appropriate because the autonomy of any body does not constitute absolute autonomy and independence. In the system of parliamentary democracy, each body must be exposed and exposed to the interaction of brakes and balances. As a third non-significant change in the Desus Group, we stress the possibility of identifying the same title and thus the same wage class in case of the reactivation of former police officers. The fact is, the police are facing a negative fluctuation of personnel. Cops and cops aren't enough to count. In the age structure, the increase in the average age is observed. In the last period, however, there has been an overburden of police officers in general. This also increases the possibility of unintentionally causing errors in all types of procedures. At the end of 2009, the possibility of re-employment of retired police officers for the purpose of human resources reinforcements with people with expertise was adopted. This time it is also possible to reintegrate those who left the police for other reasons into the same title and salary class as before. The financial impact of this proposal is estimated at only EUR 12 000 per year, based on the dynamics of such jobs over the past period. The proposer certainly knows what he is proposing, so this information does not give rise to any particularly tangible effects. The proposal includes a number of other provisions: with regard to the posting of attachés abroad, with regard to candidates for trainee officers, auxiliary police, the procedure for obtaining positions in certain positions in the police on the basis of the career system of progress, with regard to the possibility of an allowance for increased work, with regard to the prohibition of membership in political parties and the prohibition of strike in cases of natural and other accidents, in crisis, war or state of emergency, and many other provisions. In fact, the novelty is extremely extensive. However, it is important that the proposal still preserves the basic purpose of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We live in a openly aggressive time when sources of security threats are spreading and accelerating. This situation must be taken into account by the State authorities and taken actively into account in order to limit them, so measures in the interests of the security of citizens cannot have an alternative. This is also the main motive that Members of the Desus Group are going to vote in favour of assessing that the proposal for a law on police organisation and work is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u256	The government, or Minister Hojs, accompanied the adoption of this novel with a brief notification that the proposed solutions seek to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law in practice and that the main lead in the preparation of the amendments has led to a more effective functioning of the police as a whole. As you know, the Police Organisation and Work Act was adopted in 2013 and amended in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2020. Since it will also be updated this year, it appears that 2018 was the only year in which the law was not subject to either amendments or additions. You may also know that the original law of 2013 was adopted on the proposal of the second Janša government or then Minister of the Interior of Vinko Gorenak, assisted by State Secretary Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice in the first Janšev government and later by the State Advocate, and by Mrs Barbara Brezigar, former Attorney General and candidate for the SDS President. Why am I bringing this up? As we are asked how the original proponents and your party colleagues, the Minister, despite all their political experience and expertise, have planned so poorly the organisation of the police work that your thorough intervention in its structure is necessary, because otherwise its work, as you claim, will not be effective. Especially since your novel changes and complements almost half of the articles of the current law, 41 out of 109. Of the remaining novels mentioned, two were adopted on a proposal from Members and regulated the situation of retired police officers, war veterans, and three proposed by our former colleague mag. Györkös Žnidareva, which did not affect the very essence of the organisation and the work of the police. She estimated that the police were well organised and that they were effective in their work. So why do you, Minister Hoys, estimate that you are Dr. Gorenak and Mag? Did Györkös organize the work of the police so badly that you now have to correct or correct their mistakes? In doing so, I would also like to point out that, inter alia, in explaining your novel, there are different views on the Minister's competence to direct police procedures, the direction of which has been taken by the competent state prosecutor. You are therefore assessing that the relationship between the state prosecutor, which is in line with criminal procedural law, the actual master of the pre-trial procedure, and the police, who helped to legislate former Attorney General Brezigarev of your kind, was wrong and that the guardian, also defended by your colleague Gorenak, who, in his working career, also performed the work of the police station commander and as an extraordinary professor of the management of security organisations, was teaching at the University of Maribor, which distinguishes and time-consuming the responsibility of the minister in relation to the powers of the state prosecutor, wrongly because, as you say, he does not allow the direction of the minister and therefore the police are not subject to any supervision in these cases. In fact, by resorting to Article 4, which is a bearable cross-border standard in the relationship between the State Prosecutor's Office and the police, you have put in place a legal basis for the adoption of an illegal amendment to the regulation that you have enforced in the government. At the end of February, the government amended your proposal for a regulation regulating the participation of the State Prosecutor's Office and the police. Then you tabled the above-mentioned amendments to the law, which legalize this illegal situation. It is more than obvious that it is your rightful intention to intervene in the role of prosecutors in pre-trial proceedings and to obtain leverage to look into the conduct of specific investigations. So far, it has been considered that the police's work in the pre-trial procedure has been directed by the state prosecutor. This gives the police oral instructions and proposals by law for the collection of notices and evidence. The prosecutor took over this task as soon as the police informed him of the crime. In the vast majority of cases, the prosecutor’s police reported orally, as it was the fastest. According to the new prosecutor, he should first have obtained a written request from the police, then he should have given her written guidance in a specific case, only then would the Prosecutor have officially taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial proceedings. Why is that important? Because the possibility of directing investigations by then also gives the Minister the opportunity to do so. You will be given new powers at a time when the police are conducting several investigations in which they are suspected or members of the government or their political allies. I would also like to point out that since the beginning of your term of office you have been making every effort to gain insight or influence the direction of specific criminal proceedings, since you have ordered the then interim Director General of Police Juric to monitor the five forecasting procedures that have been conducted by the NPU in recent years, which have not been completed at the wishes of your party. May I remind you that the then Secretary of State for National Security in the cabinet of President Mahnic has even written down that criminals who have not done their job at all must be held accountable. Yesterday at the press conference you presented the results of the monitoring of the implementation of police duties and powers in the NPU, which showed some systemic shortcomings, but did not attach to the views of your client colleagues that their investigations were conducted politically. Why, then, the NPU, although you have temporarily appointed the SDS Grah Lazarje as its head, you take autonomy with the proposal and why the provisions on the appointment and discharge of the Director of the NPU are deleted. The former Director of the Office of Males, whom you illegally dismissed, is still seeking justice, this time also at the Labour Court, although the Administrative Court has previously ruled that his dismissal was illegal and the State's Attorney's Office has not been successful in its review of the Supreme Court. Last year, you cancelled Male's appointment more than a year ago, and later you issued a call for the director of the NPU, but the Male in court reached a halt. With this novelty you will be able to remove this invitation and appoint Mrs Grah Lazar as leader with a full mandate. In view of the oversight of the work of the NPU, I am not surprised at the fact that you are disproportionately extending the powers of supervisors over the work of the police, since before that you have taken care of staff exchanges in the internal investigations and integrity sector, which operates within the Service of the Director-General of Police. In fact, at the press conference yesterday, you yourself said that you would stand up for the NPU's personnel ventilation results. It may not be too much to point out that the internal investigation and integrity sector has recently abandoned its longtime leader and successor. We can agree with you that the situation in the police is far from ideal, not because of the bad law, but because of your interference with its functioning and the leadership of the Chief of Police, Olai, your chosen individual, who has taken over from the post of Secretary of State. The best indicator of this fact is the human resources fluctuations in the highest management positions, both the post of director and his deputies, and a number of exchanges in police administrations and staff movements in the service of the Director-General of Police, where loyalty is the main criterion. In order to enable your staff client to operate at higher speeds, you have provided new 49.a and 49.b articles setting out the procedure for obtaining positions in the positions of head of the organizational unit of the first level of the general police administration, the director of the police administration and the chief of police station with a temporary relocation for a period of 5 years and reasons for termination. Mr Olai is abandoned by both deputies because of poor conduct and allowing the police to politicise, and one of them has only lasted three months in his office. Among the key reasons for their dissatisfaction is the supervision of the work of the Ljubljana Police Administration at an alternative celebration. It is also supposed to oppose some of the amendments to the law that we are considering today. A poll on satisfaction with police work has also yielded devastating results. In order not to trust the Slovenian police, only half of those who have completed the online questionnaire replied. This has not happened in the history of Slovenian police. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware that there are also some good solutions to the proposed novelties, particularly those that do not touch the organisation of police work. The latter would be willing to support them, but if they were proposed in a separate novel. In this way, you have used the government's proven tactics to include in the novel even promoters who don't even enjoy support in the ranks of the police. We cannot support the proposed solutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. This is because we know that as SDS Minister of the Interior you will use them to constantly sow doubts about the functioning of the police and to insult some of them, to make overnight changes, regardless of their expertise, to remove the disobedient, to set yourself up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u257	Comrade Servant, time has run out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u258	or SDS loyal and could still be listed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Dusan Šiško, who will present the last position, namely the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, I will list some of the first to be reported. First of all, Primuje Siter, Janja Slug, Rudi Medved, Predrag Baković. Comrade Shisko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u260	Your Honor! The proposal for a novelty is originally to be considered in a simplified procedure. Now we have a general debate ahead of us, which I hope will be constructive. We are working for a strong and effective police force in the Slovenian National Party. Police officers must be provided with quality equipment, more powers and appropriate payment in their work. In place, it seems to us that right now, during the Presidency of Slovenia, certain shortcomings will be improved by the Council of the EU, which have been demonstrated during the implementation of the law in practice. The police are doing well, although there is still a great deal of human resources malnutrition in this area, it is important that young people be motivated by this profession, which is neither physically nor mentally easy. The point is that it seeks to make the police more effective than the one-stop shop. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also recently concluded that, in the light of the State border insurance, the absence of a large number of active police officers will be replaced, where auxiliary police officers will be called by the end of this year. Greater attention will be paid to illegal border crossings by illegal migrants, to protecting events under the presidency of our country. The border must remain closed to illegal arrivals of migrants who bring with them crime and disease. However, it must not be closed to Slovenian citizens. The National Investigation Office, which was established 11 years ago with a large pump, should have acted differently. We expect him to be more successful in investigating serious crimes in the areas of economic crime, money laundering and partly organised crime. Do you remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister Katarina Kresal, how she portrayed this office as the Slovenian FBI? My opinion is that he has not yet reached the predicted goals of the Slovenian FBI. A set of internal security records shall be determined, which shall be managed and maintained by the police. All this for the purpose of carrying out police duties and ensuring internal security. Personal data of persons would not be too much information about nationality. We always advocate this in the Slovenian National Party, but the other parties do not want to listen to us. We agree with the proposed additions to Article 32 so that police officers can use police powers to protect facilities, facilities and infrastructure. For example, in Tacno, in Gminanica, in Gotenica, because it would be the police's job. This would further improve their legal security of protection. A good proposal is set out in Article 33, which is rather social, since the individual who assisted the police at the time of the implementation of the aid has the right to adequate care as determined by the Head of the Police Unit. Furthermore, by supplementing Article 62, the medical commission may, at the first hearing of a police officer, assess that the latter, due to mental health problems, is temporarily unable to exercise police powers where the measure may for the first time last for a maximum period of 60 days. It is right to provide them with appropriate professional psychological assistance, such as established practice abroad. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the fact that when former police officers are reinstated in the police, the possibility of being appointed to the same level of title and classified in the same class of payment in which the former police officer was assigned before the end of the employment relationship. Police officers must have the full support of their superiors in carrying out their tasks, as this will make them much more effective on the ground. The news is also that police officers and public servants of the Ministry who carry out police support tasks can be paid up to 20% of the salary base due to the increased volume of work with special burdens. We have observed that this is a materially comparable solution, as provided for by Article 59 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. We believe that hard work requires a fair payment, which they certainly deserve, because they work for the safety of our citizens and citizens. But, Madam Minister, I cannot agree with you that at the time of the Crown, those who did not have direct contact with citizens received a greater allowance than police officers on the ground and at border crossings that met with potentially infected persons daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before I give the floor to the Members, Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I will try to focus on what has been said in your debates in this response to the presentations of the Group, but I will not hold back, or I will stress in particular that I thank you for what you have said in your debates more precisely than I have had time in those five minutes. Of course, I would not specifically point out here, but discussions, such as Mr Verbič or Mr Pavlin, as well as the representative of Desus, have shown very precisely what is important in this law, what is important to change, what will make it better for the police to change this law, especially why some things need to change in my opinion, because they are to a very large extent inconsequential. If I go straight ahead, I might first respond to the debate of the distinguished former minister of the LMŠ. I'm going to start by saying that his minister was actually the one who tried to take over the police. Remember that Minister Poklukar was informed daily by entries into the Occ base, he received daily reports of who, where, when, by the name of Slovenia, something happened, which is a very important possibility of potential discrediting anyone. I haven't received these reports since the day I performed. The police themselves have decided not to share this with me. Even when I found out that the former minister was getting this, I didn't ask him to send it to me because I didn't care. Apparently, the former minister was the one who wanted to have political control over what was going on in the police and, finally, more than political control, had the opportunity to potentially discredit all those who were listed there with names and surnames. The more scandalous thing seems to me, I apologize, Mr Medved, if I accidentally misrecorded you, because you were a little ill-heard, but if I heard you correctly, you said that the government had used the acquisition of protective funds to finance the SDS party. I hope I heard wrong. However, if I have heard correctly, such a statement is scandalous and can only be afforded because you know that you have immunity in this House and that we cannot or will not be able to prosecute you in any way or otherwise. As for the autonomy that you spoke about or changed, you have pointed out that in fact many of us wanted to take away this authority’s autonomy with a different solution to the NPU’s status, of course it is the other way around. So far, the Director of the NPU has been the one who, as I have already said, as in the self-service room, said which cases he would process and which cases he would not process, while all or most of his staff were awarded with an excellent or very good rating, there were virtually no different evaluations at the NPU. What were the results of this NPU, we have actually said several times in these days. It's extremely weak. After all, I don't really remember any major case that would have been solved or handled by the NPU, until I successfully passed the first stage, successfully passed the prosecution's assessment of whether the case could continue. Those key, the biggest criminal cases have been solved in any way by criminals from police administrations. Specifically TES6, say, in Cel. It is also very interesting that your party opposes, at least that is how I understood you – well, it opposes the general acceptance of this amendment – the mandates for the directors of police administrations. That's very interesting. As an interesting thing to say, in Slovenia we had directors of police administrations who were also in these places for 25 years. Or the police station commanders, who were in charge of police stations for 15 years. I have talked to many mayors about this relationship, and many mayors have warned me that such long periods of these functions in these places are actually a very courty sword. This means that someone in a very long age is practically irreplaceable. We have to say that at this point these people are practically irreplaceable. They can only be replaced by resigning themselves to determine that they have committed a crime or to transfer them by agreement. Of course, this agreement means that everyone who is in agreement from this city will leave only if he makes progress, so that he will have higher wages, greater benefits and so on. If we compare police work with something else or work in the economy, of course we cannot say that this is comparable, of course not. It's a completely different way of working, another system. It is amazing, however, that you are either so strongly opposed to the fact that the directors of police administrations and the commanders would apply for the call, i.e. only police officers, only those who meet the conditions, only those who can occupy this city, and after two mandates can repeat them in the individual unit, were unable to run again in their local environment. We even have a President of the Republic who can't have more than two seats. However, we have directors of police administrations who have four times the mandate of the President of the Republic. Or we have police station commanders who have three times the mandate of the President of the Government or of the President of the Republic. It's amazing that it can actually be the idea that it's such a problem. In particular, I would like to point out what you have stated on several occasions, and it is obvious that this reminder of yours was poorly prepared not to address the human resources aspect of the police. Unlike your government, it must be said that we have provided two upper classes for reserve officers, not you, you have done nothing in this case. We have raised salaries for the police, as far as the existing system has been concerned. We have ensured that the reserve officers are paid in the same part as the additions, like the other police officers, no less. And finally, it is we who have raised the number of places of entry to the police academy by 50%. This year, for the first time in years, 300 new candidates are enrolled in the police academy, i.e. those who will once be police officers. You didn't make any of this happen, and we did it. And the answer to Mr Bakovic, or I will come to the presentation later or to the position of the SD party. What Mr Baković said is not true either. He talked about young people's interest in the police getting smaller and smaller to leave. It's true, they're leaving, some are leaving, some are coming back. According to your published salary, you could see that the salaries of police officers are not so low, even though they had covid supplements at the time. But I would call it an exemplar number, which means more than 800 candidates signed up for 300 seats at the police academy this year. Almost three times as many cities as have been awarded, candidates for admission to the police academy have applied. So there's no way he's holding this profession to be uninteresting. Unlike the SD party, which said that they appreciate and respect police officers, I must say that we do just as well, and we also allow them an excellent material basis, an improvement of wages, an adequate working environment, and not least, if I list just a few of the last issues that we have done within the police, we are just before signing the acquisition for a new police helicopter, i.e. a uniforming of the police fleet. On behalf of the government, I was given the authority to sign an agreement with the DSU in the following week, where we will solve the spatial problem, both the Ljubljana Police Administrations, evicted Stefanovo, evicted the police from a building where three different state authorities are housed, and this building protects – imagine – the main police building in Slovenia is protected by a private security service. For my understanding, when I saw it, when I got there, it was incomprehensible. In the building there is also a private fast food provider, where all students from the surrounding student blocks can come, employees from other companies and so on. Because when you introduce it to other people's colleagues, they're actually holding on to their heads. I wouldn't say what was somehow said in the sense that the union agreement was incorrect. Far from it. We talked to the unions very properly. We've also come up with very appropriate solutions after my assessment. Of course, it is clear, and I will always say that those who vote against this law are also opponents of this union agreement. If this law does not see the green light, unfortunately, the police will also be at the 20% that I think they are entitled to, as defined by this law. And we'll be witnessing the police strike again. Otherwise, I believe that this will not happen, but it is necessary to be clear enough here and also let the Slovenian public know clearly what it means if you do not vote for this law. As for the debate by Ambassador Sukič, i.e. the Left Group, I must say that in the quarter of her performance she has repeatedly made it clear that I do not understand anything and so on. So I have to say that I didn't understand her discussions either, so she's obviously right not to understand anything. So I won't even comment on her performance. As far as the Sab party is concerned, I would like to say, given that the gentleman has spoken several times or some have spoken in connection with the relationship between the prosecution and the police, and that there is also a lawyer in this parliamentary group whose discussions I appreciate, because I think they are always very correct, and I would like to make this very clear. According to existing legislation, at the moment the police informed the prosecution, as stated in our law, in the Law on the Organization and Work of the Police, the prosecution took the lead. I think that we have had four or five meetings with the prosecution where we discussed how the prosecutor actually takes over, where this is recorded, how the police should know that she took over, and I think that she is the Attorney General, if I am not mistaken, the president of the prosecution's society, so somehow, I don't know exactly what society is called, but this is Mrs Klintov's, she made it clear that the Law on Organization and the work of the police does not oblige them and that they do not hold that they take over every case at a time when they were informed of the case. This was a red light for me or our colleagues. And only on the basis of this meeting, which took place before the amendment of the regulation you were talking about, have we amended the regulation and have clearly written that the Prosecutor will declare whether he has taken the lead or not. We cannot be in a situation where a police officer calls, the prosecutor is supposed to take over the matter by marriage, and the prosecutor says that this obligation does not apply to her, but that she is subject to the CAP and that she will tell herself when the matter will be taken over or not taken over. With this amendment of the law, we want to make this ambiguity or, rather, not ambiguity, this disagreement between the CAP and the Police Organisation and Work Act clear and that it will be clear when the Prosecutor takes over the matter. However, by this law, which has been repeatedly said, we do not allow or allow any internal minister to direct an investigation to oversee this investigation to look into any investigation. So none of this is true, which was said several times later. Let me add a word or two about the debate Mrs Janja Slug had. I must say that I highly appreciate the work, as she suggested, I highly appreciate the work of both Dr. Gorenak's predecessor and Dr. Vesna Györkös. In fact, I think Vesna Györkös was one of those who, in the previous mandate, wanted to lay the right foundations with amendments to certain legislation, especially the Migration Act and the Law on Foreigners and Asylum, to go in the right direction. Unfortunately, in that coalition, even though SMC's party was extremely strong there, her ideas failed to get her under the roof. We in these two laws, which have just seen the light of the world before time, have actually used all of its ideas, with some additions, and have successfully put both laws under the roof. Mrs Vesna probably didn't have time to go into this law yet, and they certainly didn't hold to the suggestion that he himself or anyone in the police would want to discredit her work or that because we proposed this law now, he would point his finger at her if she didn't do any of the things right. One very interesting thing, I think, was highlighted by Mr Medved, and if I am not mistaken, Mr Baković, as well as the representative of the SAB, is this political independence of the police. It is very interesting that it is now quite suddenly evident from your discussions that the police would still like to be politically active. You've said several times that police should be allowed to operate in the local environment. Now, I'm going to tell you completely plastically what this thing looks like, so that there's no mistake, it's not about cops working or wanting to work only in the left-hand side. We have cases that have been presented to me by the unionists. A local police officer, given that he cannot be part of a political party, is not in a political party and is running on a political party's list. When I presented such an example to the unionists and said: “Look, this is unacceptable, an example in this and this congregation, Mr. this and this, a policeman, running on the list of SD parties, does this seem appropriate to you?” I have to say, I've got a fantastic answer. “Yes, it is, he is running on the party list, but you know, excuse me, Minister, this same gentleman was running for SDS eight years ago or twelve years ago in the same municipality.” Well, worse. They're not running on the client list, but they're running on independent lists, of course, they're all independent, they're non-professional, maybe they're professional. That is why I think the dictatorship that we have put into law that this complete depoliticisation of the police is also necessary at the local level is absolutely necessary. There were dilemmas about whether it was unconstitutional. I don't think so. Each of the officers has the right to run, to become a mayor, to become a city councillor or a municipal councillor, only in this case can he no longer be a police officer. He will choose his own path, whether he wants to work in politics or wants to work in the police. This has only further exacerbated the conditions and, in some ways, at lower levels, we have tried to depoliticise the police. The most exemplar case of police politicisation is, in my opinion, the former head of the KRIM Police, which has been for many years, if I am not mistaken, has been set even by the right-hand option as a senior expert. Unfortunately, his results were catastrophic at the time of his leadership of the criminal police. As soon as he retired, however, he, look at the fraction, ran on the list of SDs and today he is one of the important mayors of Slovenian municipalities of the list of SDs, running as a candidate on European lists, painting with Tanja Fajon, but at the time he was in the police, he was a senior expert in the leadership of all criminals in Slovenia. Why in those years so little has been done in the course of economic crime investigations, everyone can actually answer. You might want to say another word about the NPU. There have been clear findings of severe irregularities in the control. This surveillance identified irregularities such as human rights violations in detained, inadequate use of seized items, leaking information to journalists or elsewhere. Of course, it is difficult to answer the question of whether we have found someone who has been politically motivated. If there were eight months left in the case box of the head of the investigation, and in that complaint, the economists were close to the left, and this did not come out of the drawer, it did not end, it did not go on, according to the local authorities, you will have to convince someone else that this is not politically motivated. Of course, every control cannot be determined because it cannot be determined by professional receptions that someone is politically motivated in such a case. These are examples that show that double criteria were applied. Now an explanation of the changes in the internal investigation sectors. The Minister has no authority to replace anyone and anywhere in the police force. The internal control sector of the police is under the authority of the Director-General of Police. He's the one who decides to switch inside the police. However, I must say to myself that, in the area of the Directorate for Police and other Security Affairs, the Directorate, which is responsible for the supervision of the police within the Ministry, has not been replaced by a single person during my term of office, even the Director has remained the same as before. If I'm not in the way of science, we appointed him director during our term of office. The only human resources change that was made here at the time in this Directorate was that we have further strengthened its service with one or two people, so that, if necessary, this monitoring will be carried out more intensively in the police and in the interests of the police and citizens. In the end, there's an answer for Mr. Shišk. I have to say, I don't know where the cops at the border crossings or at the operational level would get more supplements than the ones in the offices. Just the opposite. Before we started sharing covid supplements, with the human resources service several times, I was the one who somehow suggested the distribution of supplements. The basic criterion for the distribution of additives was precisely that the one who is potentially most at risk in direct contact is the one who is on the ground in direct contact with the people who helps everyone and so on gets the largest supplement. These had a supplement, right, I think this supplement was 85% of the salary for the hours they spent on the ground. Then there were these supplements, depending on where someone worked, the ones in the offices, I think they only had for those hours when they were potentially in contact with the infected, and I think that supplement was 45% or something like that, so it was a pretty big difference. As far as retired police or reserve police are concerned, it must be said that all solutions to their work are certainly not yet appropriate in marriage. You forget something every time. I visited Gruškovje myself last week when I spoke there with the commander, why they were not helped by the backup police officers in traffic control, so that the reserve officers would watch IDs, the covid confirmed to those crossing the border, the commander told me that they couldn't do that, but they couldn't. And when I asked why not, he said the police had decided that they should not have these powers. I wonder for myself, so someone who was in the police force for 30 years and then retired, then we took him as a backup cop, and yesterday when he wasn't retired, he could watch it, today when he's retired, and he can't watch it anymore. I'm sure there's still a kind of ambiguity in the internal organisational regulations of the police, a kind of flaw, but we're going to solve you or the police will have to solve you at other levels. We have, of course, tried to improve the conditions within this law to the greatest extent possible for both reserve police officers, regular police officers and all those in charge of their supervision at the Ministry of the Interior in the Directorate responsible for overseeing the police. The people who are most experienced, who are from the police, who have made a very important and great career in the police, are not prepared to come to the Ministry of the Interior and in the end of their careers to exercise control over their colleagues, because in this case they are, in the event of a substantial part of their earnings, at the expense of the second pillar of the pension system and some additional deficits, so I thought it appropriate that, within this law, we also regulate that those who will do so remain in the pay grade or on those supplements that they also had inside the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word is Primoz Siter, who is not. The next is Rudy Medved, and he will be given the word Predrag Baković. Comrade Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll try to go in line, as the Minister has told me in his response. He immediately observed how Minister Poklukar politicized, subordinated himself to the police and turned over that popular old record, which he had never heard before, as Minister Poklukar received these reports from the operational and communication centres, which are completely uninteresting to read. That was automatic, and we've been cleaning it up, and I don't know how many times, but the minister is still a judge. It was an automaticism that lasted for years. I'm Minister Poklukar, after you've read this several times and he's your favorite subject, he asked and said he hasn't read it at all. Yeah, it's completely uninteresting. But it's weird, and you should be asking yourself, how did the police cut it off for you, by choice, or how did she decide to do it for you, if I didn't know how many years ago it was like some automaticity that she cut it off for you. But it's an old record, and I think it's getting stuck. We do know the guilty ones the slightly older ones. This one's stuck to you. When you went on – you're really quick to conclude, because I still took it well, that what you made up, that I said, you marked it as scandalous. He could be getting worse observations. But you made it all up, and I heard it very well. I'm sure it sounded good. Of course I didn't say that. Yeah, of course I didn't say that. You'll look at the magnetogram and you'll see what I'm saying. Of course I'm not, I've never done this, and today I'm not. But you're as quick as you are, you've already indirectly threatened me with any sanctions, because I said that because maybe you've heard it. Well, okay, just scandalous, that's all I took. You're saying that the autonomy of the NPU is not taken. Of course, it was taken away from him in the way he acted. As long as he could act, it was crucial that the NPU was dealing not under pressure, I do not know whether the minister or the director of the police or anyone, but the matters that were needed at that time. You're saying it was self-service. I don't know when you're expressing yourself so vividly, it's like you're going back from the self-service system again. But who's going to be there behind that counter on the other side that the NPU is going to share the things that they're going to investigate, and they're also going to be appropriately resorted? Of course, he's also duly oversorted. So much for self-service. I had this in my car yesterday when I was driving and I heard this pictured comparison, and I laughed. Because comparisons sometimes have a funny, just the NPU thing itself is not as funny and in the way that you are now concluding this story, of course the NPU is no longer like that. The NPU is simply not under this law anymore. You're saying he didn't save anything. Yes, how will it save you? In the last year and a half, you've pulled out of the NPU in one way or another, and those investigating the investigation, so that you won't hear anything wrong again, with the purchases of protective equipment and medical equipment, are suddenly the ones conducting this investigation, and in some Schengen working groups, mostly for the retards, there are a lot of them in Tacno in the offices with the ficus. Actually, it's hard for the NPU to do something if you've done it multiple times first and then picked up the criminals and sent them to the office with the ficus. Then how is the NPU supposed to do anything? We're not afraid of anything for the directors of the police department, as you say. I believe that the internal structure of the police is such that there is no need for someone to be around for 15 years because the system works so that no one is irreplaceable. It is true, however, that with these mandates you bind them properly and obey them properly because they will be afraid for the next five years. That was the thought. Not that we are now afraid for the fate of police station commanders or for the fate of police directors. It is true, however, that I myself have had experience with some police station commander, who may have been there for many years, but nothing harms and works perfectly for this police station, and this commander has been there for many years, and it works, works. And he's not afraid of existence, but he's simply working. But after that, I've heard Ambassador Grimes say you're going to return to the local police level. Police are already at the local level, and believe that police stations at the local level are functioning well, related to all the necessary actors at the local level and, above all, to help people. So the police are already there, I don't see in this law that you're going to bring her back in any way. He's always been there. As far as the entire police force is concerned, I've just told you, Mr. Secretary, and that's what I've heard about police officers in this reserve unit being poorly paid, mercilessly paid without all the extras. If the situation has been different in the last period, you can also demantle me, but no additions, four euros an hour, with work after ten, twelve hours. The two classes that went up to the police, if we say so, fell, as you know, out of an agreement on salaries in the public sector's pay system, and they fell into your mandate because it was a postponement agreement. Of course it was, you know it was. In addition, you forgot about the Schengen supplement that the police received and eventually got a little divorce because, as far as I could tell, this Schengen supplement went to many of the offices that never had anything with shang. Practically this Schengen supplement was at that time a salary raise at the police station, and then you forgot about it and then you gave it to the police. This is a purely reversal that we who are talking about preventing the politicisation of the police, but now the LMŠ will suddenly take on the fact that we are at the local level for the politicisation of the police. I have pointed out a point with which you will probably meet yourself when this law, if it will, I am actually sure that in such a form it will not, you will face it, because it will soon be before the Constitutional Court, because such a rigorous ban on action in a social environment is constitutionally controversial. I'm not talking about city councillors, I'm not talking about this covert run on some lists. As a diction in this law, these people cannot be members of the boards of public institutions or members of the congregation’s supervisory committee or similar, which has nothing to do with politics, but some involvement in the local environment. That's what I'm talking about. As I've seen, it's actually a total ban. They're pushed into some kind of vacuum, like they don't live in some oil. That was my criticism or warning. Minister, I'll respond to what you've been saying, but you've convinced me you haven't yet. Now, in the end, there was actually a banal situation that one prosecutor told you that they were starting to direct the procedure then, as they think, and it was such an alarm for you that you had to change this 4th article, which is very clear. However, the 2010 regulation also makes it very clear what the relationship between the police and the prosecutor is. Even these time hands are written inside. But it's true that it's all over the place right now, and the D.A.'s been informed as soon as the police are aware of the crime. The Prosecutor takes over the case immediately - and then you had the above - or in writing within five days. After five days, however, it is considered that if he did not react, he did not take over. That's how we interpret it. I don't know how the D.A. explained it to you. We cannot read the deletion of the second sentence of paragraph 8 of Article 4 in any other way than in relation to paragraph 5. The whole article speaks of the Minister's powers or guidelines regarding police work, paragraph 5 says that "separate orientations relate to the execution of individual tasks and actions of the police when immediate action is needed to remedy the deficiencies". He's very clear. And if you read it in full, the eighth paragraph of this fourth article is also very clear, so we tell you that there is no good purpose behind this deletion, because it says here, “the powers of the Minister referred to in paragraph 5” which I have referred to,” this article does not apply to police procedures whose orientation is based on the law governing criminal proceedings, taken over by the competent state prosecutor.” Here you make a dot and delete what it says, “no matter what law governs criminal proceedings, it is considered that the Prosecutor has taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed of the crime”. It's in the law, and I don't know where the uncertainty is now that it's constantly being replaced in practice, what information is and what guidance is. I don't know who's suffering so incredibly now and constantly replacing it if it's written so clearly. And then you, in this process, when these governments are, of course, full of the mouth of demobilization, are just killing some bureaucratic wedge, so that now the police will write first and then the prosecutor will read it and the prosecutor will write it, and the police will read it, although the regulation makes it very clear that things are running orally, and when they are written, they also write clearly. Therefore, this suspicion is based on the suspicion that these are not pure purposes, but that they are intended to pave the way for policy intervention through police leadership. Why? Because in the middle of this empty space, when the prosecutor hasn't taken over, there's no telling if he's going to take over. This is where the expression of this matter referred to in paragraph 5 comes from,"the individual guidelines relate to the execution of individual police tasks and actions where immediate action is needed to remedy the deficiencies". Of course, through various management functions in the police itself, the policy will conclude that immediate action is now needed to address the gap in this empty space when it is not yet known whether the prosecutor has taken or will not take over. That is why this second sentence of paragraph 8 is so disturbing that it has to be deleted. We have not found this only in the LMŠ, since we have already heard from several parliamentary groups here that the deletion of this sentence is the same, nothing less than a tendency to influence preceptive procedures or guidance, because the Minister will actually have even a legal basis for this, since the fifth paragraph of Article 4 has remained which provides the legal basis for this. It is difficult for you to convince us, Minister, that we read so wrongly that we read the same reading by prosecutors, who have also been harshly opposed to this legal provision. Except for that D.A. you were talking to, and after that conversation, you got such a bad alarm. I support a lot of things in this marriage. I have to say that I support a lot of things in this law when we're talking about improving the position of police officers, but it's at these very key points that you've unfortunately laid down and returned them that the whole marriage then is the hostage of these [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Look, honourable Member Bear. I would only touch this second part to try again to clarify it more precisely. I don't know now, you probably imagine that the shortcomings in police procedures are not identified by the minister. That's not what the Minister's finding out. Mistakes in police procedures are identified by the competent services organised by the Directorate. In any event, it takes some time to establish these errors. The police director doesn't come and say that you did it wrong, but the whole case looks, see how he's guided, how the notes are, what was right and what wasn't. I'll tell you one typical case. I've already mentioned it here before. I think I told Mr. Bakovic at the time. This unfortunate drowning of this boy in Socha. I think it was last year. That's when you told me not to interfere with premonition procedures. At the moment I found out about this unfortunate incident, I ordered the Directorate to take control of police procedures. This surveillance has lasted, I don't know how long, probably a colleague of directors will be able to tell. In this process, irregularities, irregularities in police procedures have been identified in the open procedure. These irregularities, with the new guidelines of the police, which not only relate to this particular case, but generally to such cases, I have tried to address them with guidance for the future. I don't understand how you don't want to understand. A police officer calls the prosecutor for this to happen, according to our law, from this point on, he is in charge of the conduct of this predictive procedure, or of a legally designated prosecutor. Then nothing happens next year and a half in this procedure. Nothing happens. The D.A.'s not giving any direction, he's not calling anyone. The cop didn't write anything down. After a year and a half, when we look at it, no one knows who it is now who did anything here. And don't hold on to what you say was done because you wanted to take anything from the prosecution. Just the opposite. It was because, on specific occasions, it turned out for the first time that, despite the prosecution's notices, no one did anything in the next steps, did not write down, there were no official signs, no one knows what the prosecutor said, and the prosecutor did not send anything. That is why, in my opinion, the only possible solution is the one we have foreseen in this law. The police report back to the D.A.'s office, just like he's been informed so far. In order to inform him, he must make official markings or inform the prosecutor in writing. But the D.A. took over the case if he says in writing that he took over. But you don't have to say I took over. Tell him what the police should do in the next phase of the investigation, and that's what needs to be done. But not to let the prosecutor know, for a year and a half nothing happens, and in the end, we know that the D.A. directed it, and the thing is where it was a year and a half ago. There was no other reason than this, that the responsibility to know what the prosecutor was doing, what the police were doing, to keep track of both the prosecution and the police. And what you're saying is that the red light lit up after Mrs Mirjam Kline said that, for them, this talk about police law does not at all hold that they are working under the CAP and that they say what they are going to take over and direct, that her statement was just a trigger, that is, the final trigger, that we decided that this should be changed. However, the fact that nothing happens in cases has been detected through controls. Now I won't be cynical or I don't know what, but I'd say because they don't like to do it, they can't say they took it. But the lady spoke this way. That's what I have to say in public here. She said how many treatments they had, how burdened they were, how they couldn't do it, how few they were. What do we think they're going to say now? And that was the only reason. But as for that first part, as I said at the outset, if I misunderstood you, I apologize, but I will look at the magnetogram and see what you actually said about SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is given by Predrag Baković and will be discussed by Nataša Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u268	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister! It was interesting to hear the response to the views of the groups. I would first focus on some of these things that were exposed both to our side and then to yours. I was a bit struck by the obvious in the position of the SDS Group and then in yours, that there were actually no rebuttal cases that the NPU investigated. And first, I'm going to define myself as an NPU. Yeah, they were high-profile cases. Dear Minister, I believe you know that. If you don't know, I would remind you that the discovered arms traffickings that have occurred have revealed more seized drugs that have occurred, the realisation of Kavačko Klan members, which was extremely dangerous, the realisation of prostitution in, I think, Marina, if I'm not mistaken, where the illegal profits of over EUR 20 million have been obtained. And it's not right for you to say that. But I understand it in some context throughout your public appearance when you talk about how everything is wrong in the NPU, how I don't know what it is. I've been monitoring your statement of control at the NPU for two days now. Then I have an article from April 12, which reads as follows: The supervisors in the review of criminal investigations at the NPU, which was ordered last year by the Minister of the Interior, did not detect professional errors or shortcomings, the media reported. I think he got this report 24 hours later, where there were no major irregularities. Now I don't know if that's what happened at the time you're the minister or how those big irregularities you're talking about happened. I just don't know. I would ask here that we do not talk on average about how bad the NPU is and how bad people are. They've just made some good progress. I agree that some things should be investigated by the NPU, I agree with that. However, with this change you are proposing that they no longer decide for themselves what you are going to do, nor do I have so much trouble that someone else will decide what the NPU will do. But I have a big problem with someone else being able to decide what the NPU can't do. That's it. So someone who decides what they're going to do can decide what they're not going to do. That's why the stick always has two ends. Of course, these things are close to me, maybe I'm taking them a little too emotionally, since I've been a part of this job and I know things for years, but I'd expect a little more. Finally, when you talk so much about this NPU, see again another article that appeared: To discredit the investigator of the NPO, Member of the Victory Jelinčič Nobility helped himself with a member of the criminal group who supplied weapons to the Balkan mafia cartel in Western Europe. Internal Minister Aleš Hojs also participated in the discreditation, although internal control of the police's charges against the investigator has not been confirmed. Now the specialized state prosecutor's office has also ruled out suspicion. I then asked you the question of whether it was true that he had borrowed one policeman 6 or how many thousands of euros from someone for a virtual drug buyout, and you said that the statements of the directly injured confirmed the reality of the events. And these are the instincts that indicate that the NPU is a thorn in your heel and let's really put things here on the facts. If I just focus on two sides, I don't have that much time. The first is the one you have already said a lot about, it is the fact that the line has been established that it is considered that the Attorney General has taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed of the crime. The withdrawal of this provision, in conjunction with the State Prosecutor's Cooperation Regulation, gives more room for manoeuvre to the Interior Minister, who can now guide with written guidance and guidance, but not in predictive procedures. What you're talking about isn't guidance, but it's about you ordering control that a certain service does. I don't have any problems here. But you must be aware that from the moment the police found out about the crime, regardless of whether or not the prosecutor decides to direct it, the police are working after the CAP. Article 148 is alpha and omega: the first paragraph, where he says what he has to do, the second paragraph, which includes these powers, and not least the seventh paragraph, where the Prosecutor has a supervisory function and can accept a complaint within three days. And that makes him the master of the procedure. However, the bill states in its explanatory memorandum that this proposed amendment is to avoid the exchange of information and guidance or misrepresentation and to explain that the competent prosecutor, in all cases where he has been informed of criminal offences, leads to the direction of police work in pre-arranged proceedings. Look, this can't be replaced, so I'll tell you why not. Because orientation is in the DA's exclusive domain. The police can't direct the prosecutor, but the D.A. is directing the police. However, information is the most common or in 99.9 cases the task of the police. And there's no replacement here because one works one, the other works the other. It goes on to say that only the situation in which the state prosecutor was informed of the crime is being resolved, but has not taken the lead and, consequently, the Minister's guidance under the current provision has not been possible. So it is the intention of the Minister to direct the police's proceedings in this case. I do not know whether, with all due respect, Mr Minister, whether any minister is more professional and competent than the officer who deals with it, and can better assess how a specific criminal procedure should be conducted than this police officer or even better than the prosecutor. I believe not. I've been using the Criminal Procedure Act for many years, but I don't know everything. However, I believe that you don't know this police law either so that it can actually be sovereign, even if it were legally determined and quality, you could afford it. But it's embarrassingly written down, I don't know, but the main thing is that if the D.A. doesn't take the lead, then the Minister can take it. Once again, yes, the Minister always has the opportunity to order control that he does not carry out himself, so the professional service does. I also understand that case you highlighted. However, if it says in the explanatory statement that there is some emptiness in not taking the lead, then it is not possible to direct the minister. The minister can't direct, he can't direct, but it says so inside. That's why I find this rather problematic. And I'm going to be another part quick, which I also think is problematic. This is what you said some directors are after 25 years, some commanders after 15 years. These are very rare cases. I don't remember being a police director for 25 years. He may have been, but I don't remember. The commanders are about 10 years old, one is five, depending on how good they are, how good they know how much they control the situation. But you know what I'm probleming? Commanders are changing now, not for more than 10 years, maybe someone. But they're already changing without this regulation in the law. What's my problem? My problem is that on a cut-off date, if this novel is adopted, it will create a condition that everyone, both at the GPU level, heads of organisational units, directors of the PSC and supervisors, will immediately cease to be in position on a cut-off date. That means everyone's only there temporarily since then until they're new. They can stay old, I don't know how you imagined it. Do you not think that any policy, any government, either left or right, is too severe for it and too much temptation to change it, you may not, but the obvious will always fly. I therefore object to the fact that, on the cut-off date when it enters into force, all of these persons will cease to be in a position to be subjectively assessed, not by you, perhaps by the leader, perhaps by his direct superior, whether he will run or not run for office. And that's what I'm probleming. Once again, it is not necessarily the right option, it can be the left option, the temptations will be too great. I'm sure you'll respond for a while, and we'll probably have something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The word is given to Minister Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you. Yes, of course I will respond, Mr Baković, because I must say that you have been very correct. But it's a fact that, look, I can't imagine anything like making a cut date. We can't say that in the western half of Slovenia we will do this in the following year, but the eastern, I don't know, in two years. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, in five years. Okay, but even if we do it in five years, we're gonna have to start working. The fact is that we have written here that procedures for selection begin within three months of the entry into force of this law. Nor do I imagine, look, someone who was a good commander or a good commander has no reason not to be a good commander. There's no reason. But I have personal problems, I have to say, it seems to me that if someone is a commanding officer in a congregation or a police station for 10 years, that's enough for that local environment. If he's good, let him go somewhere else and be a commanding officer for another 10 years. Temptation, police are too serious a thing to be someone for 20 years, you don't know them, I know them. Finally, in your congregation, this case was, if I'm not mistaken, you're from Kočev, when it came to hearing that the police station commander had to be replaced, which was there, I don't know how many years ago. A lot of mayors tell me, let's do some rotation. He can't be a commander or now a chief, he's not a commander anymore, he's only 15 years old. Anxiety or a sense of that power, all conduct for the local environment in this case may be a major temptation for such a person. As far as the catalog or not the catalogue is concerned, see, none of them will be, even what Mr. Bear said would then be counter sales, not self-service. Absolutely not. A catalogue will be created where it will be clearly written, which procedures the NPU must conduct. But not only will this catalogue be made by the director of the NPU, because it is a self-service sale or self-service choice, but it will be done by him and the director of the criminal police. They're going to make this catalogue. Finally, the approval of this catalogue is under the authority of the Director of Police. But the chief of police will say yes, yes, it is, that's fine, this catalogue is valid and from now on the NPU will take all that is necessary. As far as this is concerned, the NPU must have done a good thing, especially in this case that you mentioned, in drug investigations or drug seizures and so on. I'm sure there's been some important progress here. But even in these cases, or perhaps in this case, when Mrs Sukič spoke of Marina, you say that I am something of Marina and so on. I didn't work, and I didn't order surveillance for Marina either. Look, unfortunately there are so many professional mistakes in there, despite the fact that everything was well-intentioned, but that this trial in the courts is falling, not because of the prosecutor, but because in these proceedings the highly skilled best personnel at the NPU have made so many mistakes that it is now falling in court. I think it's a disaster. I can't say otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Replica, Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u272	Mr. Secretary, I do, but you must know the following. When you exposed Commander Kochev. Yeah, he was replaced, but that means the system's working. The system worked, they detected, and this commanding officer was there for six to seven years, and then he was replaced or whatever happened. As far as catalogue crimes are concerned, who will and who will not. We already knew that. We have had certain catalogue crimes at police stations and administrations, which will be dealt with by the CAP, what will be dealt with by the police station. Do you know how many times there have been differences? And then we either screwed up or they screwed up, and so on. There's always been someone who said no, and that's not what you're going to do, no matter what the catalogical crime is, but they're going to do these. And that's what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid that in this case, too, it's going to happen that you can do it in catalogue, and someone's going to say, "no, no, but somebody else is going to do it." And I'm not saying now that she's going to do this to you, anyone. I don't know about Marina whether it's already fallen or you're the only one who's judging that it's going to fall, I don't know this thing, but I think that 20 million of the illegal assets have been seized, and it's probably going to stay, and something's done here too. As far as this is concerned, I don't know the case very well, but I really wish we didn't spit on the average of the NPUs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. She'll get the word Natasha Sukić, and Anja Bah Žibert will get the word. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Chairman. I don't even have much time left. Look, Minister, the fact is that there has never been such an intervention on the police as you are now affording it with this bill, there has not been, there has not been. It's actually police politicization. You're working for the police. Yesterday you showed up politics, started raking against my client, you went to Youth, you came to STA, to the Court of Auditors, to everyone who doesn't fit you. Tomorrow, however, you will have quite a legal basis for charging the entire opposition. That's what you're actually doing right now. What you're doing, even with this suspension, by interfering with the judicial branch of power, by assuming that you will direct the forecasting process instead, as it has been so far, forgive this disaster, this is an intervention into the rule of law. In front of Europe, you work and you nod innocently and always lie to us literally in the face with this innocent face, and you lie to Europe about how everything is in the best order and so on. In fact, what you're going to do now is one of the stones in the law enforcement mosaic. This is indeed an attack on the rule of law, it is a serious interference in the independent branch of power. The prosecutors are against it, she's against it, but you don't care. You don't even care. You would direct and conduct investigations as you please. And what? Those close to you would be untouchable, with those you do not like, to account and in this way you would eliminate political opponents and so on and so forth. What you're doing is completely intimidating. And you want to institutionalize it now. You're doing it anyway. These pressures are incredible. We read about it literally every day, what's going on, but you want to have a legal basis now. As was the case with the previous law that we dealt with, the legal basis for some of the works there in the arms law. Same thing. You would like to make sure that you can say that now it is the rule of law because we have a legal basis. The provision for you to direct the work of the police, I mean, when it is informed of the criminal procedure, it must be taken over by the Attorney General and no one else. You don't have anything to do here, but no, you're going to delete it in Article 4, and what's going to count now? When is the prosecutor gonna start directing the police? When's he gonna start doing this? Until the prosecutor gives written instructions — who will do so? You. Who's going to do this? Until the D.A. starts, who's gonna do it? That's crazy what you're doing, and that's not what you're doing. We must not leave this at all in this national assembly. Then let's move on. You've already massacred the NPU. You are now proposing a recast of the law regarding the appointment and discharge of the Director of the NPU. We know what happened to the former director, we know the story isn't over. The Court found that the discharge was illegal. But look, you'd change this arrangement again and so on. Human resources clearances will continue happily, but at your best. I want to know why you need a third Deputy Director General of Police and a police attaché. What does that mean, why do you need it now? But because you're gonna hire some more of your loyal personnel or something? Besides, I'd like to know why you're hiring additional border police officers. You have previously entered into temporary employment to control the external borders of the European Union, and after a new one, will you protect even the state border or what? Why are lower standards required in these jobs, and I am interested when there is no need for public publication or public competition? How do you imagine that? Just like that? Are you going to make all the decisions or what? A little bit of homework. Just like you think. And reward your most loyal members, and you will suffer for what? To Tacen, where they say they're hoarding so they don't even know what to do. You'll be imagining new departments like the road police, where you suffer from high-quality criminals and personnel and so on. And you're going to hire your own? SDS supporters or how? In short, it's crazy what you're doing, Minister. I mean, crazy, really! I do not want to talk about this law further restricting the right to strike and adding some other options for termination of the employment contract. Let's say you extend the possibility of a policeman's suspension if that's suggested by the medical board. Who's proposing a medical commission? Yes, the politicalally appointed chief general of police. You talk all the time. That's not what the minister does. That's what the CEO does. Yeah, who set it up? Who's that director afraid of, if not you? Please! But if this director isn't good enough, and he's gonna fly away, then you're gonna have a new director. So please, stop lying to us, and act so innocent, because that's really funny. You guys, every time a man gives you evidence on a table, you say you don't know anything about us being wrong and we get it all wrong and so on. It's perfectly clear what you're doing and what hasn't happened before. It hasn't happened in this country. And we can't let that go. Because that's the disaster you're taking us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Two key responses from this debate. Who will direct the police at the time if the prosecutor does not take this direction? It will be directed by the head of the unit dealing with the case. So the Director of the NPU, the Director of the CAP, the Director of the UKP, the Head of Investigation, none of the politicians, none of the ministers, because they have no authority to do so. He doesn't have legal authority to do that. Under the Organization Act, the Minister can provide only general guidance, not concrete. So the answer is clear at a time when the prosecutor will not direct or take the lead. This will be done by the head of the unit in which the police investigation takes place. And look, it's hard for me to say it again, but why is the prosecution so afraid to write that the investigation started, it started to focus. What's the problem? What's the problem with the DA being informed about this in the next five days: I've taken over the investigation. What's the problem here? Come on, let's have a clear watts so that we know who he is, after one year and a half nothing happens, responsible. Not that the D.A. doesn't write anything, no one knows anything about it, the boss says the D.A. took it, but in one year he didn't say anything, he didn't call them, he didn't write them anything, and so on. As far as police attachés are concerned, it's just an explanation. We're not going to change anything, we're going to do this to make those who are already police attachés, and they don't formally have that name, comparable to military attachés. Today we have police attachés in Zagreb, Sarajevo, Macedonia, I don't know where else. I know, but I'm not gonna list them all. The only thing we do with this law is that these people have a proper status that is equivalent to a military attaché. Nothing else. The procedures for appointing this attaché shall not change in any way. The procedure for appointing an attaché has already been established. He can be called the minister directly. I haven't thought of that. It's been years. He may also be appointed Minister at the suggestion of the Director of Police. We haven't made any changes in this direction. We just named them the way they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. There's a slight change in order. Now she's gonna get the word Masha Kociper, and the mag behind her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much. The law before us certainly requires a longer and deeper debate, but since I have unfortunately very little time available, I will touch on two things. The first is the one we are talking about most today, which is the deletion of the standard on when the prosecutor takes over the direction of the police. I, Minister, have no problem with this, so that the hands and powers can be clearly defined. In general, I am disturbed by the fact that, after the CAP, we have a bunch of time-consuming deadlines, which the parties are very committed to, lawyers and customers, eight days late, I'm sure. You're 15 days late, I'm sure. Prosecutors and courts, however, often have instructive hands that are violated over the years. Following the CAP, the investigation should be completed within six months. The investigation takes two years, three years. People are in the process, they don't know what's going on with them, they can't do it and so on. So I don't have a problem with clearly defining powers and deadlines. If there is one blind field here that is not clear when and who takes over when the direction is taken, it is right for me to have the prosecutor react. I'll remind you of another case. My former political passenger, I can talk about him because we broke up, Mr Jankovic – he was a big problem, the whole public was disgusted because he had been dismissed because the prosecution had done nothing for three years after they were special measures. And then, when the Supreme Court said it was over, the flag fell, we made up some indigenous interpretations of the Rules of Procedure here in Parliament, I don't know what. For three years, the specialised prosecutor for Jankovic, who was persecuted in hundreds of cases, not just by one prosecutor, did nothing. But here's where someone's gonna have to do as much as I can understand, at least give the order, and do this, and in the coming time, do this and do this. So I don't have a problem with that. I have a problem with who's going to be at the NPU right now - I know it's not directly connected, but it's connected - who's going to determine who's going to be after the NPU. If you're saying it was self-service before, I agree with Predrag, who says if it's not self-service anymore, who determines. Since we know if powers are too wide, such arrangements are self - serviced. If all matters are of priority and you are in charge of them, then you can choose between these matters. And you've already answered some of the questions here, but here is the key to me, how it will be determined, what it does, and who will have the right to say it, and that is not what it does. And here are the possibilities for political abuses of all kinds. Not only your abuse or this government, but for every other government. The fact that someone determines what is being pursued and what is not is unacceptable. Therefore, these are some of the solutions that the NPU is independent and so on. But what's the right solution is a million-dollar question. I agree that some autonomy of an authority does not mean complete autonomy. Judges are autonomous in their decision-making, but they are not autonomous about when they will hold the debate, how long they will have the process open and so on. And I expect that here, too. Otherwise, at this moment that I still have, we did not tell us in this position that the deletion is unacceptable and that it is an intervention. The police union, which you are referring to as having reached an agreement with him, points out that, as a result, the minister will be able to intervene in the professional work of the police with direct guidance. That's what the police union said, and also the State Attorney's Office, as I understand it, disagreed with this solution. Now, here's the other thing. Restricted mandates, either for the chiefs or as they are called, which you spoke to Mr Baković about, or for the Director of the NPU. If you degrade the director of the NPU to the level of one national official that each government can replace within one year, then you have substantially restricted the independence of that authority. That's a fact. Whenever someone is tied to a mandate, he becomes more scared, more vigilant, and so on. Therefore, these certain mandates, which are linked to a certain period, are not an individual in order to safeguard the integrity of the organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague mag. Bojani Muršič, I'll just read which divers are reported: Janez Moškrič, mag. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj and Branko Grimes. Colleague Mursich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At first, I must say that we have witnessed joy again today. And not the joy of the messenger, but of the minister. Immediately following the views of the parliamentary groups, he said how this government and its ministry are doing well, improved salaries for police officers, conditions for work, rescue police stations, purchase equipment. That's all right and all right. If you're so good, then why were there so much dissatisfaction by the police when their salaries were announced? And even if the minister goes on to say that only how can we oppose this law, because essentially union requirements are included in this law. Yes, of course, because we said in the position of the Socialist Group of Members that you would say, "you, you, the ugly opposition, are the ones who have not adopted the law." One day you also said what you would do next. We're not stupid, are we? In fact, this arsonist really shouldn't have to be in this marriage. Really, then, you're going to point out how ugly we are, discredit us, and beyond, I really don't think that's right. Yeah, we've always given the cops and the cops tremendous respect and trust. Unfortunately, in the last year, people have also lost their respect for police officers, which we, I must say, is a matter of genuine concern. I'm afraid I've noticed that myself. When you expect the protection of an official, a policeman, just a nemo looking at you, watching you, using neither verbal nor non-verbal communication, let alone something else. Why? Maybe he was waiting for any instructions or maybe I wasn't the right person to protect at that point. Absolutely, Minister, I agree with you that the organisation and work of the police must be improved, but unfortunately this proposal, which is under consideration, is going in the opposite direction. I see it as political interference with the work of the police. You said that police and police officers should not be members of political parties, so there is no political interference. But look at him, break him down, and what the law does. If today it is true that the Minister is you, and it is not important at the moment, but you, or anyone else, must not direct the police in criminal proceedings directed by the Prosecutor's Office, the proposal of the law deletes that dictatorship. I hope I know what's right. This means that the minister, as a political function, will influence the forecasting procedures. Even the most sensitive. Why? Until now, it has always been considered that the master of the criminal procedure was, in accordance with the law on criminal proceedings, the state prosecutor, who was the only one who could give direction to the police. Next. The powers of officials of the Ministry of the Interior Police Guidance and Control Unit are also being extended substantially and unacceptably. The bill allows them direct access to a living database and living databases of police units. These are traps that are extremely problematicly addressed. This will enable the official to directly influence the performance of the operational tasks of the police. Worse still, I will say the inadmissibility that I see in the law, but it is that the proposed amendment takes away autonomy from the National Investigation Office. It's unacceptable for me. The current regulation in this part is clear because it makes it impossible and excludes any influence on the independence of the National Investigation Office. I see no valid reason for police station commanders to be renamed police station commanders. You've already said a few times today that they're already chiefs. Yes, Your Honor, the law has not yet been passed. The law hasn't been published yet. The law is not yet in force. Am I wrong? Well, they're still police station commanders today. I can only see the reason and only ideologically. Even if you can have a chance, I am not talking about you, because we are talking about ministers, next or any of these, within three months they will be able to replace all the contested police station directors, commanders. Really, Minister, this marriage is very, very problematic. And Mr. Secretary, everything is coming back, everything is being paid for and your beauty-telling You are a manipulator in verbal relationships very large and I hope, I really hope that the voters will miss it once again. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u282	Yes, thank you. I will only explain this about this commander at the outset, and then I would ask if the Director of the Supervisory Directorate could also have the floor, he has also been notified. So he would explain what's actually been happening all night. Look, Commissioner, yes, indeed, I have said many times today, Chief, not Commander. But I said that about the pay phone twice and here three times, but every time in connection with the new marriage. He's so defined in the new law. This does not yet apply, of course, but I am talking about what is proposed. If that's ideological, yes, maybe it's ideological, look, I agree. Commanders, this is coming from the former South. There you had a commander in the army and a commander in the police department. The commanders in the Slovenian Army have turned into commanders, I think immediately during the time of the First Secretary, Janša. They were no longer commanders at once, but they were commanders. There are other officers in the police force. Now after 30 years, I think it's time we called them different. The commander did not seem to me to be an appropriate term, because the commander is quite, I would say, a military term for leadership, so in reviewing foreign practices we have somehow reached this name, which I think is actually quite appropriate. The commander, however, is an essential difference if someone wants to compare this to what they have in the Anglo-Saxon world. Now, I would like to ask if my colleague Bradač can explain what we have been talking about all the time, about guidance or what your question was, I think it is even more important that the police control department by this law substantially enhances its powers or that they can enter the premises, watch illegal things and so on. I think it's a good idea for a colleague to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lady Beard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I think it's right to look ahead to the existing law. Article 7 speaks of who can actually control the work of the police. It shall be carried out by officials employed in the internal organisational unit of the Ministry responsible for guidance and supervision. It's just this so-called Police Directorate and other security tasks. Officials and only officials of this unit shall be officials with special powers. No one else can actually exercise this control. The official referred to in the preceding paragraph shall, in the performance of his duties, be presented with a business card issued by the Minister. In order to carry out certain tasks of individual supervision, we can also include individual police officers who are employed in the police force. It is only a small handful of people who have gained their experience and knowledge in the police, a part of officials comes from other institutions, including the prosecution, or elsewhere, to exchange these experiences between them. However, it is important that, already now, the powers of a guidance and control officer are, due to effective supervision, in particular due to respect for the control of legality, professionalism, respect for human rights, written in the first indent, so that it can require data from records maintained and maintained by the police. So it's nothing new. He can already request data from records maintained and maintained by the police. In this particular case, we wanted to make it more clear at the end that when it comes to access to this record and where it is necessary for implementation under their competence, it is said that the need must first be demonstrated, then there must be jurisdiction. It is said that this is an event which has an echo in the public, which has triggered a request for verification in some individual, and this is not a complaint about the police's work, about the performance of the police's duties. You probably know that we have another sector that deals exclusively with the implementation of the appeal procedure, where, in fact, in open cases, we also check individual conflicting findings, within the Senate or in the context of conciliation procedures, the whole process is prescribed how we do this. People have the right to complain about the work of a police officer and the performance of his duties. In this particular case, it is not a matter of extending powers, but only to say in concrete terms when, how, and why. But we also have to define that. These supervisors shall have the right to request access to records, documents, documents, orders, records, decisions, decisions obtained, prepared and issued by the police in accordance with their competences, and, if necessary, to request the issuance of their copies and so on to obtain this documentation, on which they may then also write a credible report. Talks, enter spaces, attend police tasks, ask the police to provide other information and information from their competences that are important for guidance and control, all of which these people with special powers can do, but only these people with special powers can do. As a result, a quality oversight report can eventually be written. This surveillance report shall be submitted to that unit which has been supervised and may comment on this report, that is, the difference between those internal controls that take place in the police, where there is no possibility. In short, they may challenge the findings, but this is already a verification process. Finally, when this report is concluded, when, in fact, we agree with more or less of these conclusions, this report comes to the Minister. Such a report was presented by the Minister at a press conference the last time the NPU was essentially supervised. It is true, however, that we have been working on NPUs for a long time, and we have been finding similar errors in fact over time, and I hope that the current leadership will be able to do so, because in the framework of the supervision, certain shortcomings have been addressed and some systemic steps have been taken that I am confident will upgrade the functioning of NPUs. I think it is necessary and, in essence, we need it in the Slovenian space in order to have an effective body that will essentially be an example and an example for all other criminals investigating crimes. Maybe he'll give them some professional support. As far as this story is concerned, it was also very well explained by the Members. It's basically this pocket that was made when actually things are standing when we find that after months, it's not going anywhere. In fact, we want to have a clear, more transparent system, where it will be determined who is the one who does not actually work, who is the one who put the matter in the drawer. If it was guidance, if it was guidance and if the prosecutor takes over and if this is an important matter, I think it's right to write a few words, a few sentences, what he wants to do here, and then he also requires that it be done in fact. After all, they're all paid for this job. Just as I'm paid to supervise, to solve appeals, they're paid to investigate crimes. However, if, after receiving this notice, the Prosecutor does not consider it necessary for him to take over and guide and direct this procedure, then it is his duty to act as chairman, either as commander or as chief of police station or as director of the NPU. But someone has to take care of it. I always stand by the principle that we trust our employees, appreciate them, but it is also right to control them. Therefore, these changes are for the procedure to be transparent and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm glad you told me that naming the commanders to chiefs of police stations is ideological. I'm extremely pleased, but like you said, it was at a time I don't know what time. But the police station commanders have it in Italy, France, England. I don't know, but fine, let's leave it. And what else did Mr. Pavle Celik write in his article in 2002: “Renameing police station commanders seriously interferes with the tradition of the Slovenian police and its multi-century structure, which dates back to the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia until today.” He wrote that down. So there's really no professional basis for renaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Janez Moskritch has the word, and after him, the mag will get it. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u288	Good-bye. Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I'm particularly glad that my colleague Rudy Bear is here. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party or as a party, also as a minister, we are accustomed to many accusations, insults and the like, but in today's debate, I believe that there has also been a major insult to police officers. We have 5,000 644 uniformed police officers and a thousand 500 more uniformed, but you said not only once, but three times after my insult to the police. And I'm overhearing about the SDS. What did you say? First statement: it will now be the political police with a consistent set-up of client and SDS loyal personnel. This is the first such sentence that I think is an insult to police officers because police officers are experts, trained and trained to do their job. The second statement was the removal from the NPU of criminals investigating suspicious purchases of protective and medical equipment and SDS financing. So the Minister has just heard, Mr. Rudy Bear. It is said that the SDS and the political police and others are consistently mentioned twice. Look, when we talk about laws, we can say that the Constitution is fundamental. How many laws could we have to satisfy our Slovenian Constitution? Probably just a hundred. However, about 100 laws would cover all constitutional standards that state that marriage is necessary. We have almost 900 active laws. One of these was today's law, which was passed in 2013 and then amended almost every year. When we go to legislative matter and more precisely regulate it, we are more likely to have exceptions or certain moments that we cannot place in the law. If I say more plastic when we say don't steal, it's clear that it can't be stolen and there's no exception. And then we know, but, uh, for smaller offenses it is, up to 50 euros at a gas station. And then we have an exception to the exception. Therefore, in practice, we have to correct certain laws in order to be effective. This novel, which is before us, is divided by my belief in two parts. So there is something that has proved in the work that we need to change, that we will be more effective. The responsible management of a specific source does not mean autocratic management. It means you're active, you want to be there. But not to come to the ministry, ask a little questions, yeah, yeah, that's right, okay, some press conferences and a caravan goes on. That's not what this government is about. This government is actively working, seeking to improve procedures in all areas, in other ministries as well as in this ministry. As a result, it was found that certain things needed to be improved. The second area is related to better conditions, as well as the organisation of work in the police and trade union requirements. Last but not least, it has been said today that this part is 16.5 million. So, at the annual level, policemen who work, who have one greater, the other less burden, will be paid accordingly. Above all, it is also related to the presentations, as the Minister has already made clear, so I will not repeat myself. But I'd like to say more about trust. In this year's good year, year and a half, confidence in police officers fell. Why? Because trust has fallen into many other things, including politics, including the government. Why? Since the scope of work has been increased in all areas. The country had to become more involved in its operations than in previous years. The epidemic required more intervention and more occupation. That's exactly what it was like working as a cop. In addition to their regular tasks, the police had to carry out new tasks, which were linked to the democratic process of protecting citizens and protecting public order and peace. All of this was more connected, more of this work than it had been in the past few years. That's why trust fell because basically cops and politics aren't the ones people would want to meet. We know that human saying: "Policemen see less, we prefer it." It's important that he's out there somewhere, that we know he's taking care of us from afar, and that's what's most important to us. I support all the proposed changes. However, I would like it not to be offensive to the work of the police and the police themselves, who want to take care of their country and their fellow citizens by their decision to take care of this profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, for her last word is mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very nice greetings, Minister, representative from the Ministry and all the other colleagues and colleagues, as well as the police and police officers who follow us through the screens because you're probably interested in this topic. I must say that these changes that we have on the table today are more than welcome, given all that has proved to be the mannequin of the police so far. I will not say it as a bad thing, but as a mannequin, which is a reflection of some prevailing situation, which needs to be remedied in this area as well as in other areas of the public sector. All proposed measures or proposed changes go in the direction of what we have always advocated in the National Assembly to make the public sector as effective as possible. But we can only do something effective by introducing some motivational measures to assess efficiency during work itself, now within the police and beyond. I don't know why you're surprised that a five-year term and a five-year term are actually being introduced. I think that there is the same parallel as with the chiefs of administrative units, who are also appointed to the term of office for five years, and no one will be accused of actually having that function as a political appointment. I think it is only right here to introduce a mandate also for the possibility of replacing in the case of these permanent seats of the city, because we actually hear that some of them are in the same position for 10 years or 20 years. But you know that such an organ, whether within the police or within the general public sector, falls asleep. Everyone has one dimension, every person has a vision, and sooner or later, they get wasted. 20 years, I don't think there's any motivational time for someone to successfully lead an organ. That is why it is more than welcome and I support this, and I also support the establishment of a mandate in the positions of heads of the organisational units of the first level of the general police administration. Why? Because we have already talked about this, perhaps some have not heard this, but in the public sector it has been repeatedly said that it would be a good idea for those who run certain sectors within the public sector to have a mandate in order to be effective in the work of some sectors. Because it happens that then just a transfer takes place and essentially someone takes another job and sits with a new, politically placed man, if I may say so – even when your governments are not going to take themselves out, but even when the left governments are doing this exchange, even though you would like to show that you never did it. Let's take a walk through the ministries once. I went several times before I came to this National Assembly, because of the very nature of the work, and suddenly people were replaced. But no, they didn't leave the Ministry, they were removed and placed in another job. This has only accumulated the number of employees. I think that, too, in order to achieve better efficiency within the lower hierarchical levels within the police, this is necessary. This will also give us a set of personnel that really wants to do more to raise the quality of the tasks performed by police and police officers, as well as trust in the work of the police alone. I further support what has been put forward in various proposals as motivational motivations, because in the public sector we know that we cannot afford motivational agents that can be better evaluated in the economy. Here we must look within the limits of what is possible and within the limits permitted by law. I must say that it is rewarded with 20% of the basic salary and that it is possible to take someone back to the workplace who for various reasons has left the police and returns and is placed in the same title where he was at the time of leaving the police, as well as in the pay grade, because all of this helps. We may feel that this is irrelevant, but believe me, in the public sector, every wage class, every promotion is essential. This means a lot to public servants and a lot to police and police officers. These are such small prizes that will certainly help improve the situation. As regards the temporary transfer of police officers to a second place for health reasons, it is also welcome that someone who is injured in the job, given some weight to be recognised and given a suitable job. One of these motivators seemed to me to be very positive, namely, for those with a working dog. Probably all those of us who have dogs at home know if we want to take very good care of them, how much time and resources we need to spend. And that's also one of those attentions that's going to mean a lot to these cops. It is also important that a record is established to maintain evidence of competence in order to plan the career of a staff member within the police. I think that's welcome. However, I appeal to the Ministry not only that this will not be its purpose, but that these records will then be used. We know that within the public sector, many records remain only records and then are not used. I hope that this will truly serve its purpose, which we today accept in marriage. I was disturbed by what I had said several times in previous discussions, but you tripped back to your staff cleaning. The Minister has told you several times, the comparisons were at the meetings of the National Assembly and the competent working bodies, as much as you and how you were staffing as soon as you arrived. That's why I think it's really low that it can't be any lower than the same mantra as human resources. Tacen is no place where second-class or otherwise-minded police and police officers are punished. No, no, no. The price may now be much more charged with increasing the protection of the Presidency of the European Union, not because of some of the personnel you want to show. This is very insulting for those who go there. Finally, all I would say is that it is commendable that the number of places of entry at the Police Academy has increased, because in fact there has been no lift even because you probably have experienced it yourself, you have seen what we are experiencing every day to protect us from the National Assembly, once because of Friday bikers, now we have had two days of escorting the police because you brought some protestors due to certain changes in the legislation. And that's probably going to happen a lot right now just because you're creating some kind of show. But it's sad because in fact those protestors didn't even know who we are, the coalition MPs, who were the opposition and who attacked you, not just the coalition. So you had to be yourself then protected. I'm sorry. You're opening your own fronts. Even at the time of the outbreak, when we returned home in the late hours of the night, you must have talked to police officers and police officers in your area. I've been told by many that there are few, too few, to cover the entire area. And when they told me how many there were, for example, on that night out, I was just holding my head. That is why it is more than welcome to educate new young people, as well as those who will return to the police at the expense of the other changes mentioned earlier. I would like once again to thank the Ministry for deciding on these changes, because I think they will bring a positive light to the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Like the last one gets the word "magic." Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u292	Yes, thank you. Earlier, a respected member of the opposition had mentioned his dissatisfaction with the declaration of wages. If there was any dissatisfaction, there was a misunderstanding, for no one claimed that those wages were too high. The problem is, somewhere else, that the wage system in the public sector is completely collapsing. Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, is about the thousandth city in the public sector wage system. When he's number one, then I'll count the matter as being settled, and then they'll stay in some proportion, as the state would have earned, to follow. However, no one does this because any debate on this subject in this national assembly turns into a single game in the general public with one pitiful demagogy and envy. You know, if envy were on fire, Slovenia would have the best export item in the world. I hope at least we all agree on that. However, as far as the police are concerned, you all know that it is high time for us to get a really effective police force, that these things that we have talked about today are arranged that they must be professional, apolitical, effective and that they must apply the same criteria for all, regardless of who is on which side. But the law must be the same for all, and it must be implemented in the same way. After all, the Slovenian Constitution also provides for this. The law before us is certainly a step in this direction. Things work more uniformly, more efficiently, things put into the right place, the same criteria for everyone. And this is what Slovenia needs and deserves: effective, good, modern police. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u293	Thank you. Replica, Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u294	Yes, thank you very much. My colleague Grimes probably didn't understand me because he said I was dissatisfaction with police salaries. It wasn't meant to be. I said that the police were dissatisfied with the announcement of their salaries. I'm not saying their salaries are too high, absolutely not. Here we both agree that wages are too low for such a work carried out by both the police and the President of the Republic of Pahor, who, as you said, is in no place at all. And we Members are extremely, extremely low in that ranking. So we didn't get along. The police expressed dissatisfaction. I wasn't unhappy about the announcement of wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the Minister gets the floor if he wants to add something. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u296	Thank you. I won't say much more. I must say, it has been a pleasure for me to be able to present this today. I also found the whole debate very constructive. In particular, I would like to point out that I hope that in this afternoon we have shed light on the most important dilemma, or that the greatest observation of this law, which relates to guidance, or time, at which time someone is directing something. So what I hope will be accepted. Finally, it seems to me that Mrs Kociprova, who said that it is really unacceptable that some state authorities, including the prosecution, do not have time to answer. Therefore, I am pleased that, even after the explanations made by my colleague Bradac, I hope that we have made it clear that we do not want any political direction, no political interference in specific criminal proceedings, but we want to see how quickly someone has reacted in the proceedings conducted by the police and the prosecutor's office, which is correct, to define clear responsibility and, above all, to see how quickly someone has reacted. But I will conclude with what Mrs Muršičev said. I'm not surprised why the police were dissatisfied with the pay announcement. I think they were dissatisfied because it turned out that at least at the time of the covida the wages weren't bad. I am aware that wages outside the covido's time are different or that the police should earn more. More should be earned especially by those who are in the operational parts, not just the bosses. But when you looked at the first 100, or I don't know how many, but you could see that they have, I would say, bosses, if I said so, three, four thousand euros gross salary higher than the president of the country. And here I fully agree with her comment that Members are probably undervalued. I think that once in this country this salary scale will have to be changed so that Members and ministers will also be properly paid. As you know, we have already announced, within this government, it has been repeatedly exposed whether there are parts of the state administration that would like exemption from the pay system. That was when they made an explicit decision or said it in the area of health care, and the soldiers also said they wanted to leave the pay system, and I must say that the police too. We've basically coordinated this with the unions on several occasions. The unions have agreed to this proposal to exempt themselves from the pay system. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a special law in the future, which will not only define the police, but will define the entire Ministry of the Interior in this segment. It is clear, however, that we will not be able to do so during the duration of our term of office because there is little time to do so. However, this is certainly the task of those who, or who will have this opportunity in the next term, to actually value this segment of the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? No, no, no. I see that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport rules under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, the rest of you are invited! Introductoryly, as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as proposing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act under the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that a third consideration of the draft law be made at this meeting of the National Assembly. Slovenia is one of the European countries that has managed to reduce the number of deaths in traffic accidents from 335 in 1999 to 102 in 2019 through a wider social effort in the last 20 years. At the end of April 2021, the European Commission published a preliminary report on road fatalities for 2020. An estimated 18,000 800 people died in traffic accidents in 2020, 17% less than in 2019. Almost 4,000 people lost their lives on roads in the European Union less than in 2019. The lower volume of traffic as a result of the covid-19 pandemic was evident, although according to the European Commission it had an unmeasured impact on the number of road fatalities. The European Commission has highlighted Slovenia as a country between Member States where at least fatalities have been recorded and the highest percentage of reductions. The European Commission also notes that 18 Member States recorded the lowest number of road deaths in 2020. The number of deaths per million people across the European Union decreased by an average of 17% compared to 2019. The maximum reduction of 20% or more by Slovenia, i.e. at the level minus 42, is still recorded in Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Spain, France, Croatia, Italy and Hungary and Malta. Despite the pandemic, five Member States noted an increase in the number of deaths. Despite the sightings of traffic experts this year, we are still able to contain this trend somehow. According to statistics, 47 people died in traffic accidents from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2021 and 45 in the same period last year. Any road traffic participant wishes to have a transport system that meets his needs and expectations. The quality of life depends to a large extent also on safe mobility, and therefore road transport is also the responsibility of a country which has the necessary levers, with which it directly or indirectly affects this area in addition to an individual. The main objectives of road safety policy in the country are also pursued by the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act, by stricter treatment of drivers who do not take into account the importance of special light and sound signs placed on vehicles with an escort and accompaniment advantage; by stricter treatment of drivers who connect to a vehicle with an advantage; by stricter treatment of drivers who use devices that reduce hearing or visual perception during driving; by setting a suitable lateral distance of 1.5 metres in overcoming bicycles, light motor vehicles and moped drivers; by establishing rules of conduct in the area of common traffic and on surfaces for pedestrians and cyclists; by setting conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic; by setting rules for the handling of red lights and traffic signs for the rearing of traffic and by driving on the right. These are key legislative changes that follow the trend in transport and respond to the most acute problems and changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u300	Your Honor! At its 30th meeting, on 17 June 2021, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and decision following a regular procedure. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, explained on behalf of the applicant that the proposal amends or complements certain legal provisions, thus pursuing the main objectives of the national transport policy. In its written opinion, Ms Macek Gustin, the representative of the Law and Law Service, explained that she had pointed out the inconsistencies in the text of the individual articles of the bill, in particular in terms of linguistic clarity, nomotechnical adequacy, under-defined conditions for the participation of special vehicles in road transport, some inconsistencies between the explanation and the wording of the article and the inconsistent application of the provisions of the Road Traffic Rules Act in similar cases. In particular, it highlighted the problem of compliance with Articles 2 and 8 of the draft law with the Constitution and the law on offences. Although the amendments tabled by the coalition groups have removed most of the concerns contained in the written opinion of the SPS, they remain controversial paragraphs 2 and 8 and therefore the representative of the SPS further presented the comments made by the SPS to the said articles. Representative of the State Council mag. Igor Velov stressed that the State Council supports and supports the proposed legal solutions that change and complement transport rules with the aim of enhancing the safety of all road users. The representative of the Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Ana Marija Hren, stressed that they supported the bill. As the advantages of the area in the draft law, it highlighted stricter sanctions for the use of mobile phones during driving and the use of e-scrolls. In the debate, members of the coalition parliamentary groups stressed their support for the bill because it is extensive, well-prepared and in terms of road safety. It covers the appropriate solutions, changes and additions it brings, which are professionally justified and will help to improve the safety of all road users. The prescribed penalties laid down in the draft law are appropriate, and the proposed fines for offences to exceed the speed limit are entirely comparable to the fines prescribed in Austria for such offences. The new rule, this is the right-hand driving on the traffic light, which has been added to the traffic sign on the right by the red light at the traffic light, if the direction is free, have been marked as a useful measure that will undoubtedly help to improve road traffic flow. They also welcomed the proposed solution to increase penalties for the use of mobile phones while driving. On the other hand, members of the opposition parliamentary groups stressed that they did not support the bill. They warned that the bill introduces a situation leading to an unconstitutional situation when they are in conflict with the Law on Offences, which is a system law, and the Law on Road Traffic Rules. They pointed out that the amendments introduced in Articles 2 and 8 of the bill, the court and the criminal authorities would be in the process of deciding on the dilemma which the standard actually applied. In their view, it is overlooked that the Law on Offences is a statutory law and that it defines general assumptions for determining criminal liability. They also stressed that they do not agree with the proposed solution in Article 16 of the bill, which provides for a reduction in speeding fines, as this solution will lead to a reduction in road safety standards and an increase in the number of such offences. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 19. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 8, 16 and 38 and to Articles 35a. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Tina Heferle will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good evening, everyone! The Law on Road Traffic Rules could be an example of how legislation should be adopted in our country. The text of the novel was prepared by the government. Members and Members of the government's proposal have been examined, dealt with on the working body, discussed and drafted amendments with which we have yet to correct or improve the Government's proposal. Both the amendments of the coalition parties and the amendments of the opposition parties were adopted on the Committee and the final text of the amendment was appropriate and appropriate in the opinion of the LMŠ Group. The disputed articles, which we have pointed out in the opposition, have been deleted, and have also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The article was also deleted, which reduced the fine for speeding too quickly. In the LMŠ, we have pointed out that there are no professional and reasoned reasons for lowering the fines, even when the reduction does not require at least one of the other side sanctions, such as an increase in the penalty points or a temporary withdrawal of the driver's licence, which would ensure that the deterrent effect is still maintained. In a constructive debate, we finally achieved that this article had also been deleted and deleted from the novel with the amendment. Today, unfortunately, and at the same time, it is surprising that the coalition has reconsidered and re tabled an amendment lowering the fines for speedy driving. Why? Because it is too high a speed, for example, in a settlement, still one of the main causes of traffic accidents. We are probably all aware that in a settlement, when a child runs by a ball on the road, only 10 kilometers of speed can mean the difference between life and death. In the LMŠ Group, we really do not understand how and how you are following the deterrent effect of criminal penalties for speedy driving offences, if you say a fine for speeding in the village from 20 to 30 kilometres per hour down from 500 to 250 euros, but do not increase, say, the penalty points, or prescribe a foreign penalty for the temporary withdrawal of a driver's licence, as they know in Austria. None of the arguments we heard on the committee were sustainable. You have not convinced us with an argument that high fines have no dissuasive effect, because at the same time you have proposed a higher penalty for using mobile phones while driving. So the fine of appropriate height, however, has a dissuasive effect. You have not convinced us that you are approaching the level of the fine to Austria because we have proved to you that in Austria they have recently raised fines to the Slovenian level while adding a lateral penalty for the temporary withdrawal of the driver's license. Let me point out, we are not in LMŠ but we are not in favour of reducing fines. However, we are convinced that the lower monetary penalties could have a bearing on the deterioration of road safety without including other side sanctions that would have dissuasive effects. Nevertheless, human life is worth more than 250 euros less than a fine. Therefore, we hope that we will once again gather enough wisdom and reduce the fines for speeding in a settlement without any other guards to ensure a deterrent effect, we will not confirm. We therefore hope that the text of the novel will remain as it was adopted on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellows! Good evening! Any injury or death that occurs on Slovenian roads is too much. Every year, different institutions, societies and organisations try to sensitise us citizens and citizens to responsible and safe participation in transport, as this is the only way to achieve the goal we all want. And that is, no casualties on Slovenian roads. With a view to improving road safety and updating and updating road traffic rules, the Ministry of Infrastructure has also written a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. However, the main objective pursued by the law is to reduce the number of traffic accidents, according to the proposalers. The set of proposed solutions is broad, from solutions that only harmonise the meaning of terms, solutions that exacerbate, mitigate certain penalties, and solutions that bring completely new road transport rules. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have carefully examined the legal matter and concluded that some of the solutions proposed are good and some of the solutions proposed are completely contrary to some of the articles of the Constitution and are even more controversial. Above all, we were disturbed by the solution that spoke of the owner's responsibility. An article of the law referring to the ownership of the owner would legitimize the alleged liability of the owner or holder of the vehicle for the offence committed. Such a marriage solution was controversial and unacceptable for us, because it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are pleased that we have been able to withdraw this disputed solution from the law by means of an amendment to the Committee, but we still have some concerns and reservations about the solutions in the Group. Social Democrats remain reserved for the proposed solutions aimed at extending the powers of municipal officials and extending the powers of toll inspectors, but we estimate that the law nevertheless brings solutions that will increase safety on our roads and help to achieve the goal that I have already mentioned at the outset. In the light of this proposed law, we will not oppose it. The slogan of the Transport Safety Agency says: as many drops, so many accidents. Social Democrats really hope that we can achieve the goal: no drops, no accidents. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Road Traffic Rules Act amends and complements transport rules with the aim of enhancing the safety of all road users. The Ministry of Infrastructure has drawn up a proposal for a law in the context of coordination with a number of stakeholders and has also included proposals from local communities, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and other sector ministries. As one of the important instruments of greater traffic safety, the law proposes a stricter handling of drivers during driving, which reduces the hearing or visual perception or ability to control a vehicle. In the context of this change, the use of mobile phones while driving will be much more severely sanctioned. The bill also highlights the stricter treatment of drivers who do not take into account the importance of the special lighting and sound signs that vehicles have with advantage and the stricter treatment of drivers who join the vehicle with or even overtake it. Given that more and more bikers have been involved in the market in recent years, the law provides for an appropriate lateral distance of 1.5 metres in the case of overcoming bikers, light motorcycles and moped drivers whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic, including wheelchairs and skippers and electric rollers, shall also be laid down. It is suggested that they may be driven by persons over 14 years of age who are required to ride on a bicycle route or on the right side of a road in a village where the speed is limited to 50 kilometers per hour. A proposal will be made to speed up traffic at the traffic crossing, and a proposal will be made to allow right turns at the red light on the traffic light if it is added a traffic sign for driving at the red light and if the direction is free. In addition to measures that pursue the basic objectives of the national transport policy, the draft law also regulates the liability of the owner or holder of the right to use the vehicle in the event of a service of the offence in such a way as to legitimize the alleged liability of the owner of the vehicle or the holder of the vehicle for the offence committed if the identity of the offender cannot be established. Finally, the bill reduces some fines for lower speed limits in the area of calmed traffic, pedestrian areas, in the area of common traffic, the area of limited speed on the road in the village, on the road outside the settlement, and on the highway and the fast road. It was found that the very amount of the penalty did not affect traffic safety. Substantial greater emphasis should be placed on education, prevention and safe traffic behaviour. I am convinced that all Members here in this Chamber are united, that the number of deaths and seriously injured in traffic accidents must be reduced. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we advocate the view that transport security must cover the weakest in traffic. These are mainly pedestrians, cyclists and disabled persons, so it is necessary to accelerate the construction and regulation of cycling and pedestrians in particular and to remove architectural and communication barriers in public places. We are pleased to note that there has been a lot of work going on in this area lately. Special attention should be paid to raising children in particular in terms of learning the rules of road transport, behaviour in transport and targeting them on a healthy way of mobility. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by the Road Traffic Rules Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u308	Your Honor! In the context of this item of the agenda, we are deciding on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, which amends and complements certain legal provisions, following efforts to ensure higher traffic safety. In the light of higher traffic safety, the proposal for a law governs certain existing relations between offences and fines. It prepares the legal basis for the use of modern vehicle types, extends the powers, authorised persons and amends certain other restrictions applicable in our road transport system. The adoption of this proposal will finally regulate the conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road transport. The text of the bill defines such vehicles as motor-powered vehicles not exceeding 80 centimeters and whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. These vehicles are particularly exposed to electric skiers due to the proliferation of their use. The document that we decide on is understood as a response to the need for regulation of legislation, which will, after a new one, clearly define the conditions for the participation of these vehicles in road transport and specify the rules for their application. The riders of light motor vehicles will have to ride on a bicycle lane, a cycling track or a cycling path, where these traffic surfaces will not be or will not be transportable, they will be allowed to drive at the right time of the road, but only in the traffic area of the settlement. We welcome the proposal for a law in the modern centre Party Group, which also provides for stricter treatment of the use of certain road transport devices. These include devices that have a negative impact on the hearing or visual perception of drivers and thereby reduce their ability to control the vehicle. We believe that laws in force in road transport need to be updated regularly. Finally, not only are we driven by modern logistics trends, but also by technological updates that have a direct impact on the behaviour of road users. The rules must follow these trends in a way that enables an individual to do what is effective logistics, but cannot be compensated in any way by reducing the overall level of safety of road users. The document we have before us also regulates discrepancies in the settlement of court fees in cases of offences. These, in the past, have caused the overall cost of arresting the penalty to vary according to the ratio between the driver and the owner of a vehicle. In this opinion, it is not only an unnecessary distinction in the treatment of participants, but rather an action contrary to the modern trends in road transport, which go in the direction of the so-called Sharing Car or the shared use of vehicles between users. We therefore advocate that road users receive equal treatment and that those who operate vehicles owned by another owner do not have additional costs in the case of fines received, costs in the form of judicial fees. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that the bill contains prudent solutions that approach modern road traffic problems in an appropriate way. We are pleased that the amendments and additions made by the law are based on the opinion of the profession, as this further strengthens our belief that its founders have really followed the central objective of ensuring greater safety for all road users. On the basis of these facts, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's parliamentary group. To conclude, where is the evidence that disasters will prevent higher fines? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u310	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The law under consideration brings many good solutions, which should bring more order, traffic flow and security to Slovenian roads. A large part of the law was created already when the Ministry of Infrastructure was headed by the president of the SAB mag. Alenka Bratusek. Even then, as one basic solution, the amended regime of punishment for those who use telephones and the regulation of the use of e-skiroes was mentioned. Unfortunately, the use of telephones at the wheel despite numerous warnings and awareness of the danger of doing so does not decline. The legislator was therefore obliged to proceed with the amendments to the penalties in this regard. It is also an extremely important arrangement for the use of e-skiroes. Due to their practicality, these means of transport have experienced a remarkable spread in recent years, and the legislation has not followed this. The amended law now lays down the conditions for driving light motor vehicles, including skippers. However, it will be interesting to monitor how these provisions will come to life in practice, as the conditions differ significantly from those that have been in force with us in recent times. The riders of light motor vehicles will have to ride on a bicycle belt, cycling track or cycling routes and not on sidewalks and surfaces intended for pedestrians. One of the solutions that people have been looking forward to is howling right next to the red light. The Ministry has contributed its part here to the accuracy of traffic, and now it is responsible for prudent and cautious behaviour on drivers who will have to implement this provision with a certain and sufficient degree of caution and absolutely without obsessiveness. However, we have already warned members of the opposition on the home committee that we do not support the introduction of solutions with which the Minister is clearly trying to gather people. We were disturbed by the reduction of fines to exceed the allowed speed in virtually all areas and almost all restrictions. We view this as a welcome solution, which would certainly appeal to enthusiasm among people, but can also be at the expense of security. Although an amendment has been passed on to the home labour body, the reduction of fines has been lifted, but the amendment coalition wants to reintroduce them into the law. Already on the committee, the Secretary of State has tried to convince us that they are failing to achieve their purpose and that is why they have been reduced. We also read in the explanation of the amendment that the fines are reduced in accordance with the principle of proportionality, with a comparison given to Germany. Although German penalties are indeed lower than Slovenians, they are also compensated by shorter prohibitions on motor vehicles. We must also be aware that in 2019 Germany, with 37 deaths per million inhabitants, was mainly below the average of the European Union and Slovenia was below 49. So we're not quite in the right place. Let us look at some concrete examples of the reduction of fines. The amendment provides for a reduction in the fine when someone in a calmed traffic area where limit 20 applies exceeds that limit by 20 to 30 kilometres per hour. The area of calm traffic bears such a name for a reason, and there is no reason to reward anyone who brings 50 when limiting 20 for such irresponsible admiration and endangering their and foreign security with a lower penalty. At the same time, the Secretary of State reminded us that people with low incomes could hardly afford such a punishment. We agree that it is not a low punishment and that it is hard for many to pay for it, but the truth is very simple — then it does not drive so fast. It's not about overstatements that happen to a man when he thinks about it, but it's really about savagery. The same applies, for example, to lowering the fine to exceed the speed allowed on the road in a village where there is a limit of 50 when driving up to 100 kilometers per hour. We are aware of such consequences, are we aware of what can happen when someone comes through the village at such a speed? The law, as we have already said, is good, so we regret that it corrupts with populist solutions. In the event of the adoption of the amendment of the coalition, Members of the SAB cannot support it, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u312	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Traffic safety is one of the most important aspects of road transport. The quality of life of all of us depends on the level of road traffic safety. Road safety is ensured by quality and regular maintenance of road infrastructure, safe vehicles and by raising awareness and encouraging responsible behaviour of all road users. Respect for road traffic rules, maintenance of road infrastructure and assessment of its safety, and education and public awareness of the introduction of new technical standards, solutions and other measures greatly contribute to greater transport safety. Road traffic rules are integrated into the basic Road Traffic Rules Act, which was adopted in 2000 and subsequently amended six times. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support this time the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, because we believe that the solutions proposed follow the objectives of the basic objectives of the Transport Safety Policy in Slovenia, which is to reduce the number of traffic accidents in which persons are injured and to reduce the number of road accidents with a fatal outcome. All too much blood tax is required by our roads. In addition to speed, the most common reason for accidents is the irregular movement of the vehicle and the incorrect direction of driving. However, the most common causes of fatal accidents are the incorrect direction of driving, unadjusted speed and failure to comply with the rules. As a cause of accidents, let us never neglect alcohol and should have zero tolerance. The proposed novelty is quite extensive and includes a series of changes that will affect the behaviour of all players in transport and, hopefully, also on transport safety. The amendments apply also to: stricter treatment of drivers who do not take into account specific light and sound signals on vehicles with an advantage of escort and escort; stricter treatment of drivers who join a vehicle with an advantage of escorting and accompanying them; stricter treatment of drivers using devices such as telephones during driving; safety of bikers by determining an appropriate side distance of 1.5 metres in the run of bicycles: rules of conduct in the area of common traffic and on surfaces of pedestrians and cyclists, on this part the drivers must drive in such a way that they do not compromise pedestrians and are not intended to interfere with traffic; conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic; conditions for the participation of motor vehicles in the area of the common traffic; short-term alternatives which represent a new form of micro-mobility and which are more frequent in our streets and which are not intended to interfere with traffic; the conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic; short-roads; short-roads, which are also apply to non-roads which are also to non-roads. In short, it is a very wide-ranging law that is the product of longer-term coordination with the professional public, so it is well-designed and follows a key purpose, namely to ensure greater safety for all road users. Members of the DeSUS Group will be united in their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u313	Thank you very much. I propose that we hold the remaining three presentations of the remaining three positions of the parliamentary groups and that the debate on the amendment be held tomorrow. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u314	Thank you, Vice President, for understanding because we've waited so long. Those Members and Members of the National Assembly who were already members of the previous term of office may recall the amendment to the law tabled by our former fellow Member, Shaker. Unfortunately, the legislative process for that novelty due to the early state elections ended. However, let me read one of the expert public reviews of that novel. I quote: "The possibility of a Member's proposal being adopted before the end of the current term of office of the National Assembly is very small, although some of its ideas may be welcomed from the point of view of transport development and participants." End of quote. Among other things, what did that novel mean? Firstly, vehicles on emergency C1, CD1 and D categories could also drive individuals with category B examinations if such vehicles did not exceed seven and a half tonnes. As you know, this provision has been implemented in this mandate by the amendment of the Drivers Act. Secondly, from 1.5 meters to 1.4 meters, they would reduce the limit on which a child could already sit in a vehicle without a mandatory restraint system, which within four categories is in fact only expected to weigh up to 36 kilograms and, on the other hand, the average physical characteristics of Slovenian children in recent years on the basis of sports cardboards have shown that children are already reaching this mass at a body height of 140 centimeters, and at 150 they are already well above and reach an average of 43 kilograms. Thirdly, the legal basis for introducing testing of autonomous vehicles on Slovenian roads, such vehicles should be clearly marked and additionally secured liability in the event of an accident, the driver should be ordered to provide the maximum speed on normal roads 50 kilometres per hour and on the highway up to 100 kilometres per hour. Fourthly, the conditions in force in the area of common transport area, which, despite the recommendations of the profession and positive examples from abroad, have not yet been foreseen; this is an area where pedestrians, cyclists and drivers share the transport area equally, especially in the city centre. Fifthly, we wanted to prescribe a new condition for impounding a motor vehicle, a policeman could seize a motor vehicle with which the driver would be caught in the commission of a worse offence even if the driver was driving with the driver's licence of those categories in which the vehicle is driving and whose validity has expired. Do these changes, when you read the current government novel, sound as familiar to you as we do? In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are pleased that the government has taken most of the above solutions from the previous mandate and upgraded them and added theirs, such as the possibility of a right-hand turn at the light red light, regulating driving with electric skiers, the use of a protective bicycle helmet and so on. As regards the driving of autonomous vehicles or the testing of automated road vehicles, it is worth noting the findings of the AMC Slovenia, which has been working with partners from foreign countries since 2017 to explore this area in the project. Research shows that the ratio of Slovenian participants in transport to autonomous vehicles is mostly positive. This means that Slovenians are following the development of cars and that we expect the development of autonomous vehicles to have a positive impact on transport safety in the future. With regard to the sense of reducing speedy driving fines, which was the main debate on the labour force and is likely to continue tomorrow, we are convinced in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that the level of the penalty itself does not have the same impact on traffic safety as some imagine. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal of the Minister of Infrastructure. It also follows from the experience of foreign countries with higher traffic safety that there is no correlation between high penalties and traffic accidents with severe injuries and fatalities. The same effects can be achieved by improving road infrastructure, greater control at critical points, measuring speed, as well as prevention and training in road transport. In addition, penalties remain comparable to those in neighbouring countries after the reduction. We are aware that the covida epidemic and its pest control measures have also contributed to the reduction of traffic on our roads, but it is worth noting that 80 road users died on the roads last year, which is 22% less than a year ago. The number of deaths and injuries has been lowest since 1954. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the amendment by the unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u316	Your Honor! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the powers of the editorial service should be reinvigorated and not extended, because the editorial service is in the hands of local communities, mayors. Such services should be limited to repressive and supervisory means, since they have a functioning police force to do so, and that is a good thing. I really want to know if the clerks are professionally qualified and familiar with the laws. The powers of the directorate are being extended, new exemptions for the financial administration are being laid down and fines for the use of mobile phones while driving, parking on the spot for disabled persons are being increased. We agree that it is an unacceptable situation for vehicle manufacturers to have access to personal data from users, as registers of vehicle users are being created which we believe are not needed by manufacturers and therefore an excessive intervention in the protection of personal data. In principle, we are against increasing the fines, and when we read the bill, we feel that this is a very repressive regulation, which we explicitly oppose. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia is a transit country, so the problem of stopping trucks is probably not about Slovenian carriers, but about carriers from third countries or very remote European countries. The issue of the meaning of punishing a legal person, especially foreign legal persons, is on the rise, as enforcement problems may arise. In the Slovenian National Party, we are against citizens' behaviours being subjected to penal policies, because we already have an expansion of offences, so we are against sanctioning the sentence and it would be much more appropriate to give a reminder. On the parental committee for infrastructure, environment and space, we received controversial debates mainly on the left hand side with regard to the amendment of Article 46 in order to reduce certain fines to exceed the maximum allowed speed. The penalties should be appropriate if they achieve their purpose, the effect, if not, is irrelevant. High fines may alert the offender or not. It also seems more appropriate for us to use light motor vehicles exclusively on the road and do not share the surface with cyclists and pedestrians when driving. The latter are justified by the fact that these are practically hearingable electric vehicles that are faster than pedestrians and the average biker, and therefore pose an unnecessary risk on cycling routes mainly in cases where pedestrians cross the cycling track. In principle, we are not opposed to the new traffic rules, but certain people have barely become accustomed to normal circles, we have begun to introduce turbocircles. Recently, the board has changed, new boards with new rules are now being added. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that transport safety is too sensitive a subject to change and even add rules in such a partial way every few years. It also seems important to us that all drivers are informed in time about the new rule for the so-called right-hand traffic at the red light on the traffic light, which we warmly welcome. In the Slovenian National Party, we have also achieved with the amendment that the road traffic rules laid down in this Act and the rules of conduct laid down by the established traffic signal do not apply to vehicles used by police in the protection of persons under the Regulation which provides for the protection of a person when police officers carry out the transport of a protected person or security guard with a safety vehicle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u317	Thank you very much. As the last one, he will be given the word Boris Doblekar, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Chairman. It was difficult for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to expect urgent amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act. Changes in reality, on the road, in traffic are so close that the law governing this area is quickly outdated and certain articles are no longer viable or are lagging behind in progress and with changes in traffic. The new law pursues the basic objectives of the transport safety policy in Slovenia, which is to reduce traffic accidents with the injured and the dead. The bill highlights the following principles: the principle of defensive behaviour, the principle of trust, the principle of protection of weaker road users. The proposed solutions in the law relate to the harmonisation of the meaning of the term wheel with the auxiliary engine, the harmonisation of the meaning of the terms alcohol indicator and ethylmeter, the responsibility of the vehicle owner, the extension of the powers of the municipal directors, the extension of the powers of the toll controllers, the testing of automated vehicles, the transfer of the parking arrangements of trucks on motorways and fast roads from the Roadways Act to the Road Traffic Rules Act, the responsibilities of authorised officials of the FURS, the area of common traffic, the use of a protection bicycle helmet, the use of a mobile phone during driving, the safe passage, the regulation of the institution of the daily parking, the marking of animals or herd, the marking of persons on the highway and the fast road, the safety belt, the conditions for the participation of light motor vehicles in road traffic, the driving of the right side of the light of the light, the indication of the importance of the importance of the influence of the roadway and the roadside control. The Road Traffic Rules Act lays down traffic rules for road traffic and the powers and sanctions imposed by the competent authorities in the implementation of the law. In the SDS Group, we believe that the law must be written according to the measure of all road users. In particular, the objective must be to ensure that there are at least unforeseen events on our roads and transport surfaces, especially at least traffic accidents, especially those involving weaker road users, such as pedestrians, children, cyclists and older persons with disabilities. We also believe that any traffic accident caused, especially those with severe consequences such as disability and death, a heavy burden on the budget and irreparable damage, and a tragedy for the victims of injury or death. In the SDS Group, we very much welcome the way in which the amendment of the law has been prepared, as the proposals have involved both local communities and the Public Transport Safety Agency and many others, whose proposals have been largely taken into account. We also welcome the changes that reduce speeding penalties, which will be newly comparable to other European countries, because we believe that only a higher sentence does not have the desired effects, so we will support the amendment of the coalition to Article 16. The fines for using a mobile phone while driving are increasing, as this significantly reduces the driver’s concentration. We strongly support the right-hand turn in the red light if the direction is free, which will significantly help to improve traffic flow. Finally, riding by skiers or light motor vehicles is also regulated. In the interests of persons with disabilities, penalties for the unjustified occupation of certain parking spaces shall be increased. With the new speeding with the prescribed safety distance, cyclists will also be safer. On the side of the adoption of the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, we believe that there will be a need to further strengthen the educational and preventive activity in the area of excessive speed of driving and the presence of alcohol and drugs in transport, with particular emphasis on young drivers and at the same time on multiple offenders. The law, which includes many new and very welcome changes, including the amendment to Article 16 which reduces speed penalties, will be unanimously supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-08-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u319	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I'm breaking the 27th item of the agenda. With the debate on the amendment tabled, we will continue tomorrow. I also interrupt the 24th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, July 9, 2021, at 10 a.m. I wish you a pleasant and safe way, but I warn you that there are still existing or old rules in force. Good night.
