ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-17-SDZ8-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mag. Dušan Verbič and Samo Bevk until 4 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, Mr Aleš Remih, the President of the Council of the Fund for Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, to the 29th item of the agenda, the President of the Government of Janez (Ivan) Janša to the 30th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 32nd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 May 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The SMC Group of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda for the meeting should be 21st item, which is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, be considered first. You received a motion to withdraw on Friday, 14. 5. 2021. Would you like a representative of the motioner to step down? No, no, no. Does the representative of the proposed law want to speak? He's not here. Would you like a word from the government? I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 21st item from the agenda of the meeting. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 46, for 22. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I inform you that I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an earlier amendment. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 42, for 42. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly is not set. I hereby conclude the 23rd session of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 17 May 2021 at 12.04 p.m.
