ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, mag. Marko Koprivc, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Han, Matjaž Germany, Franc Jurša and Samo Bevk until 2.30 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the ninth item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Council of Justice, the Ombudsman of Peter Svetino and the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman Ivan Shelih to the 11th item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 15 January 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the 22nd regular meeting of the assembly is scheduled. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 51 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting of the reply to the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this point, Dr. Anže Logar, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Health, Zdravko Počivalšek, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, between 3 p.m. and 17.30 p.m. and between 19.30 p.m. and 21.30 p.m. and Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first two questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša. First, he will be asked the question of the letter by Miha Kordiš, Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr Janez Janša, politics is by definition a common work for people. But you, Mr. Janša, were never just the Prime Minister of the Government. Your goal has always been to complete power, to privatise the state: to the first government with the tycoons, to the second with the bad bank, and now directly with the criminal associations. In the '90s, you were financed by arms deals. Of course, this would not have been possible without decades of broken promises of privatisation and misery in the direction of a political environment. By her conduct and policies, she has disappointed people and created a perfect breeding ground for extreme right-hand conspiracy theories, often in cooperation with the SDS. But it is the SDS that wants to achieve power by all means. Privatisation of the state for private interests, illegal and legalised corruption under the SDS has become both the main asset and the objective of governance. You used to do things in gloves, now you don't even hide your crime and relationships anymore. Your tax advisor, Mr Janša, is the swindling fraud of Rok Snezič, your arresting roommate with the Age and one of the biggest taxpayers. We can read about it that it is both in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the forecasting procedures. Well, the Bosnian authorities even expelled him from the country as a result of the threat to national security prior to the new year. In Bosnia exiled and in Slovenia under Janez Janša as advisor to the Prime Minister. You recently made a million-dollar deal with Majbert Pharma to deliver rapid antigen tests. The director and co-owner of Klemen Nicoletti with his associates is closely connected to the international network, suspected of legal money. Through bank accounts in Bosnia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Austria, Slovakia, Cyprus and Hungary, she has turned EUR 22 million from 2016 to today. In it, Rok Snezič played a key role again. The final recipients of money from an international operation investigated by the authorities in Austria, Slovenia and Bosnia since 2017 are your long-standing colleagues and people from your circle. Among other Jernej Sotto, Darko Schmidt, Gregor Jeza and, of course, Rock Snow. Among other things, Djana Djudžič played the task of raising money and heating cash, from which your SDS party borrowed 450 000 euros. You signed the contract, Janez Janša, personally. Snow White was right when he said Janez Janša was a businessman. It is true, Mr Janez Janša, that you are not a politician, you are a businessman who is already trying to privatize the country in the third place. You run it as a private enterprise to pursue your own financial interests and the financial interests of your fellow citizens. Criminal associations survive on the weak and organize themselves, feed from their grips. I'm asking: Mr. Janša, why do you cooperate with them instead of persecuting them? Why do you hand over power to criminal groups?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u3	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u4	Now I do not know whether I should take this seriously or not, but given that I am also serving as Minister of Health, I will ask the competent institutions how to help those who are suffering from such negligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, you have a word, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Masks and fans, quick tests and other things are really just the tip of the iceberg. It is not surprising that Mr Janez Janša does not want to answer the unpleasant questions. Weapons deals in the '90s, the tycoons during the first government of Janez Janša, the bad bank for the time of the second government, and now directly co-operation with criminal associations. In doing so, Mr Janez Janša looks at the worst practices of Poland, Hungary and Serbia, especially the great brother Viktor Orban. As far as this honest flirtation with organised crime goes, we can best see on the case of rapid tests. The director and co-owner of Majbert Pharma, who delivered these quick tests, is Klemen Nikoletti. This man has also played an important role in the Bereal cryptopyramid scheme, which has left millions of euro in investors' money. He was the procurator of the Slovenian branch of Bereal Holding, one of the two British companies that were behind the scheme. Now – watch out! – this was set up and led by Mrs Jelena Sladojevic, who was in charge of opening accounts abroad, receiving millions of dollars, then raising this money in cash and, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina, handing over this money to Roca Snezic, current tax advisor to Prime Minister Janez Janša. The same role that Mrs Sladojevic played in this network was played by Dijana Djudžić, with whom your party, Mr Janez Janša, signed a contract to rent EUR 450 000. This contract was signed by you. So I repeat my question in the hope of an honest answer: Why don't you pursue crime, but follow it, just as Victor Orban does? Why do you privatise the country instead of using it as a common good to support people?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, I can only add to the previous answer to such a question that it is obvious that it is an emergency and that I will check to see if I have any more room in my clinic in Australia. [[advertising from the hall]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u9	Vatovec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u10	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I think the Prime Minister of the Government today has shown ultimate proof of his disrespect for this institution. Look, one of the MPs asked the Prime Minister a perfectly legitimate question to which the Prime Minister is obliged to answer. He's bound to answer, whether he likes it or not. He sits in that chair because the National Assembly has placed him there and is responding to the National Assembly. It is not only for any President of the Government, but for everyone in the National Assembly, that he ridicules and insults the Member. So at this point, I expect mainly from you, the President of the National Assembly, to protect the integrity of each individual Member against the arrogance and violence of the President of the Government, who can obviously now be allowed to deal with Members in this way. This is not a way of speaking that would be appropriate for the National Assembly. And once again, at this point, despite the fact that these two rounds have been consummated, I expect the President of the Government to respond specifically to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u11	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u12	These are documented matters, questions that are legitimate and can also find some form of answer. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister may deny something in his defense, and that's it. But I do not think that you, first of all among the same, should allow the President of the Government of any Member of the National Assembly to thus end without answering his legitimate question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u13	Dear colleague Vatovec, I will now read you an article that I reminded you of last Friday. Article 240(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states: “The question or initiative must be brief and concise and expressed in a way that makes their content clear.” I think it's a very clear definition. Let me read you a question you've announced. Content of the oral question at the 22nd ordinary meeting of the National Assembly – this is the letter from the Levica Group – “I will ask you an oral question regarding the attitude of the Government towards and the functioning of criminal associations”. We have warned you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure, the questions referred must be brief and concise. So if we talk about some concrete companies, what we have heard today all the time later, that this is highlighted, that everyone in the government can respond, that material can be prepared and that the question can be answered as thoroughly as possible. However, if the question of the Member State is as posed as it is in this case, then it is not surprising that the answers will be very much as they would have imagined in the Government. As far as your call is concerned to ensure that every Member and Member of Parliament is properly addressed, I think that you, as the leader of the Group of Members, are the ones who should have already pointed out exactly the words of Miha Kordiš, on several occasions. So I propose that we all pour ourselves some pure wine here, and we all sweep up before our own threshold, and our debate will be much more patient and there will be no evidence on the one hand or on the other. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u14	Look, Mr President, the question that Miha Kordiš raised was entirely in line with the forecast. He said he would ask questions about the functioning of criminal associations and the government's attitude towards them. The question was short, sharp and simple. He asked the Prime Minister about the criminal association of his tax advisor Roko Snezic. We are talking about a criminal association because we are talking about a man who has recently been expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina for endangering national security. I think that the Member has the right to receive an answer to this question, how can the President of the Government with a human being who is in the forecasting procedures in at least two countries, who has been expelled from one country because of tax fraud, who has a network for fraud and tax systems proven to be such a person in Slovenia as a consultant to the Prime Minister of the Government for Tax Policy. Why does the President of the Government hand over to such a man to practice instead of persecuting criminal associations? I think that the Slovenian public, not only the National Assembly, has the absolute right of the Slovenian public to have an answer to such a question. However, not only did the Prime Minister not respond, but he here laughed in the face of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Did you hear what he said? He said, "Mr. Kordish, you need psychiatric help." He said that twice. Does this seem dignified to any member of the National Assembly? If you do, then I think you too deserve to resign as President of the National Assembly, because you should be the first to safeguard the integrity of this institution. But not only have we been following a mockery of citizens and citizens for months now, the President of the Government has shown today how he feels about the National Assembly and democracy in general. What we have seen today is a perfect display of arrogance and cynicism of power that should not be tolerated at any point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u15	Comrade Dean Jedhan, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u16	It's also procedural. Thank you, President for your word. There's only two things I'd like to give you a procedural warning. Firstly, the vague parliamentary issues in this form of writing have been already 20 years old in the National Assembly. You have now come to a new form, and you need to explain why, look at the parliamentary issues. Secondly, no one in the government can play a doctor, whether a doctor, a counsellor or anyone, in a way that offends Members. You have a duty to protect us. You're destabilizing the National Assembly if you don't act now. It's your own fault. My mission is to do what you have to do. Protect the integrity of Members from the government. What has now happened is that the government will talk about the health status of individual Members with whom it disagrees is unacceptable. It's a direct attack on an MP. You have to protect us. This is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u17	Yes, he is a fellow Jew. I agree with you. And I expect from you alone that no one will own the role of prosecutor and judge. We don't have doctors, not prosecutors, not judges, we're just Members. So I propose, fellow Members of the Council, whether we move on, or move on, Comrade Kordish has a procedural decision, we will decide when the vote is reached, whether we will continue to talk about it or not. And that's it. Comrade Kordish, you have a procedural question regarding the question of the mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that psychiatric care in this country is more difficult to find every day than it is every day to find quality health care. For the government of Janez Janša is trying to break down every end of solidarity in the public health system in order to privatize it. We are also dealing with corruption here, in violation of the private interest in the public interest. Even more in the sky are the direct links between the President of the Government and his SDS party and criminal associations. To a large extent they run through the Snowman’s Rock, not exclusively. Remember the mask business, remember the fan business. There is a eloquent silence in the response of the President of the Government. The sovereign authority is in line with the people. The Mafia is the one who doesn't answer to anyone. In Levika we predict obstruction due to the conduct of Prime Minister Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Speaking of which, I would say, on my own behalf, that I absolutely oppose such offensive and negative discourse that we have received today in the National Assembly on one side and on the other. I oppose every discourse that inspires hatred and division, whether it comes from the right or from the left. The Prime Minister's response was offensive in his work to judge the mental state of the Member, while Members demand respect from the President of the Government, the institution of the President of the Government is also receiving and must be respected. I didn't mean to be procedural, but if I have a word, you're both doing the wrong thing and you're sharing people, and I don't know where that's gonna lead. I don't know. Now for the question. Dear Prime Minister, after almost a year of living with the epidemic, there is no longer any doubt that this epidemic has reached into all the times of our society and has affected virtually all social groups. If, in a purely healthful sense, the largest victims of the epidemic are older, especially those in the DSO, it is increasingly clear that they are the largest, let's say, long-term victims of the epidemic, those whom we call our greatest wealth – our children. It is the children who pay an extremely high price to infect the virus as a country and protect our health system. In Slovenia we have the longest closed schools in Europe. We closed them practically in front of all the other European countries where the epidemiological picture was worse than ours, and we closed them in a situation where the epidemiological picture was significantly better than it is today. Today, schools are continuously closed for 92 days, which means they are full of 3 months. Although the first three students are returning to school today, this still means that most of the children and students remain at home. And those who return may return only for a few days, at least so you could be understood yesterday afternoon. In the SAB party, as well as I, we are personally aware of the gravity and complexity of the decisions taken by the Government in connection with the epidemic, as well as by you personally. In each individual decision, this also constitutes an intervention in rights, however. Did your government and you personally weigh all the consequences, the long-term consequences for children, the consequences that experts say we will not be able to fix them for a long time? We don't even have enough experts to deal with these consequences. Have you really weighed and considered that there is no other, easier solution — the use of intermediate models or the use of other solutions that have been used elsewhere — so that our children can go back to school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u21	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. First of all, on the first part of your question or whatever it was. Mr. Snow White has never been my tax advisor. We have denied this many times, and let these lies not be repeated. As for the topic that you have raised in the formal question of the Member State and you have also announced, it is a central topic. At this point, the competent authorities are concerned about whether, in these regions that have reached the conditions for opening kindergartens and schools, they are actually starting physical education in the first triad tomorrow and with or without the full scope of the kindergartens. This is a central issue today. It's about tens of thousands of people. If I start with the beginning of your question, why did schooling in autumn, after the number of infections has spread, not have been able to take action, as in some other countries. Look, that's why. Mr. Jew, that's why. Because there was no problem elsewhere with these measures, and with us political parties launched a campaign without masks in schools, the teaching union followed this, and in a few weeks we had four times more infections in education than among the rest of the population. That's why. That's the difference. Yesterday a group formed on the network, now I don't know if all the profiles are real or not, 3,000 teachers and educators calling against testing. That's 10% of those who are supposed to start education and education tomorrow. It is very difficult to expect those who oppose testing to respect and comply with the remaining measures. We are at greater risk because we do not deal with the virus in the same way as we do in most other countries. Although we introduce the same measures on the basis of expert recommendations, Slovenia is not an island. The guide, which was even printed in the form of a brochure on how to teach in a partially trifled sense even at the time of the crown, was issued at the beginning of the school year. We have experience in this. If everyone were to stick to it, then perhaps schools would be much longer open than they have been before. But show me one country in Europe that has as many infections as we have, and at that time all schools would have been open. If you look at the map, as it has been published publicly and also communicated in recent days, the central part of Europe has schools closed, although some countries also have a three-fold better epidemiological picture. Now this emphasis on how the children will be the greatest victims are the ones who die because of the crown. [[…]] The problem with infection among young people is that it does not show up or appear to be relatively late, when the virus from younger ones is passed on to parents and older parents and then people die. A certain percentage of infected diseases, a certain percentage of those who get sick, are intensive care, capacity is limited, and a certain percentage of those to be treated in intensive wards die. I think that given that the Slovenian school system has relatively well organised for the school in the distance, that this output was not so great that some of the consequences arise, but only with us, that there is much that can be made up for. But people who die can't be awakened to life. These things need to be weighed. Look, we don't know yet whether tomorrow's school can really begin physically, given the newly discovered strains of the English virus in our country, we don't know or in all regions, given the situation we're still looking at. Things are open, and here's where they need to be. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u24	Yes, thank you. Dear President, you probably know two studies, one from Great Britain and one from China, which confirm that the closure of schools to manage the epidemic does not contribute significantly and that mortality also increases in some really minimum percentage. On the other hand, experts of all kinds, teachers, parents, and even students themselves point out the following consequences of closed schools. More and more children and adolescents suffer from minor or even worse mental distress, anxiety and depression. Among secondary school students, the number of hospitalized suicide attempts increased by as much as 30%. Children become addicted to computers, increasingly difficult to get away from screens. Their involvement in social media, games, the Internet is very difficult to control, as parents are not at home or working from home. Children sit behind the computer for 10 hours. In addition, they no longer have training, they do not move enough and experts point to health problems, worsening health, visibility and weight loss of children. Because of the above, there is also more problematic, impulsive behavior of children. Some become aggressive in their relationships or even toward their parents. These warnings are getting more and more. Children from week to week lose more motivation for school work, teachers warn. They are poorer in concentration and find that they no longer process substances or do not want to convert them into quantities than before. Differences between children continue to increase. The most exposed are those from socially endangered families and those with learning problems. Not to mention missing peers, socializing and everything that can never be replaced again. My question was: When weighing the health situation, do you also weigh these severe consequences, long-term consequences for our children, who are called lost generations? Is there no other solution to the problem of children going to school, while you, as a government, would urge them to break off contact with their parents? My children haven't seen their parents in months either. This time the older population will be, let's hope, intercepted. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u26	All these advices that you have read now have been given by the profession in Slovenia for months. There's nothing new. With regard to the safety of contact with old parents, not only does this instruction in all of these, it is also prescribed in these measures. The studies you're making, of course, I know. But I also know other studies. This latest strain of the virus, which is named after England because it first spread there, is a strain that spreads faster, which is more contagious. We don't know all the other consequences yet. They're not supposed to be here for now. But it spreads faster and English studies show that it spreads especially quickly among children. Speaking of studies. That's why England went to the prison of public life a long time ago. We currently have several countries in Europe where the percentage of this new strain is over 10. Since we have checked backwards in Slovenia, at least a few percent of those who have been positive have been positive for the English virus. So it's a serious situation. Today, the Minister of Education, the Director of the National Institute for Public Health and the Head of the Advisory Group on Health have to give me a 16-hour opinion on whether or not we will actually open schools and kindergartens tomorrow and in which regions, as the situation has changed since Wednesday, not for the better. The government weighs all this, but the hierarchy of values in Slovenia is enshrined in the Constitution and has long been known. First we protect lives, then we protect health and then all the other things. To put this later on my head, I don't think it goes either in the questions sent, or in the way it goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My colleague Kociper, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you, President. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity afforded by our Rules of Procedure to hold a debate on this issue. Certainly, the situation is difficult, and we are all aware of it. Certainly life and health is a special value, but we in the SAB are convinced that it is also the right of students to go to the schools enshrined in our Constitution and that here it is completely ignored and that the government has made a mistake in this area. I'm not saying she did it on purpose, but our schools are closed as long as possible in Europe. In the summer, the Ministry issued one such beautiful booklet with all the options that we have not served, President of the Government. Options BC1, options BC2, options mentioned by teachers to attend a half-class school for one week, the second half. And there's another possibility. We have already called on the Government and the Minister for the first time in the SAB party on 5 November to consider other options not only to remain closed or open. I don't know how many times. Now we have organized all living initiatives of students, students, teachers, parents and everyone asking for help. That's not how they call it. I have different letters from my parents here. They say, “the work is irreparable damage, the children and parents are desperate, we are no longer able to meet the obligations imposed by the curriculum. It is necessary to find another solution.” It's a solution if we all work for them. I think we need to discuss how much longer we will allow schools to be closed. The initial government traffic light map envisaged the opening of schools when the number of infections below 600 and the number of hospitalised below 500. Do you know what your results are? We're not gonna send a child to school by the end of this school year. It is true that this number has changed now. The opening of schools is moved to the orange phase. But given the new strain that the president is talking about, and given the situation we have, I seriously wonder if our children will even go to school this school year. We need to protect the elderly, absolutely. But older ones, let's face it, they're living a pretty normal life, and our kids have had their lives stopped. Don't turn your head, stop. My colleague, if you don't have kids at home, I do. Their lives have stopped. They don't have contacts, they can't learn normally, they get depressed and so on. And when someone warns, the minister gives some flossules, statements in terms of – first life. That's clear to all of us. But I hope it's clear to us that if we don't do something, we're going to blow up a whole generation of kids. I therefore propose that we discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January, in the framework of the votes. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 53rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Interior Minister Aleš Hojs will answer Vojk Starović's question about violent protests and police. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you, I'm sorry, I thought the Member would ask the question again. Mr Starović has already been asking about a matter that has been going on for a relatively long time in the past month. I must say, however, we have been much longer than we were a month ago since the question was raised. I must go on to say that this was an event that took place on November 5th, not November 6th, but that it was probably a lapsus, and that it had been announcing this event for quite some time before so many social networks, and those who had otherwise cycled on Friday were also invited to the event, and in the end, as you have rightly found, it has turned into one of the worst violence in the last few years with us. The police have carried out the following measures until now, given that some have only been committed in the last month: 54 identity-finding procedures, then we have 6 infringements of the Law on Identity Card, the person does not have a ID card, 67 found violations of the Law on Infectious Diseases, 3 cases of seizure of pyrotechnic articles, firecrackers and so on, 18 findings of violations of the Law on Public Order and Peace, two violations of the Law on Public Collections, 11 cases of criminal offences dealt with, that is particularly important, three times to prevent an official act or to avenge an official person and eight times to assault an official person, of which 6 perpetrators have been detained under the provisions of Article 157/3 of the Law on Criminal Procedure, once a criminal offence of cooperation in a group preventing an official act, 13 crimes against a foreign property and three times a criminal offence committed by a prosecutor. All these crimes and crimes have been investigated, the perpetrators are known, and I am pleased to say that the police have done an extremely great job at this time. We also held the gentleman or lady who attacked both the police and the journalist. It is true that much work is needed to do this. Let me say, interestingly, that DNA analysis was also taken from urine samples in the surrounding areas, where these gentlemen were urinating and so forth. In the end, however, we came to him and arrested him on the basis of the direction or order of the prosecution. As I know, he's still in custody right now. So far from being inactive by the police. But it is true that we still cannot say with complete certainty who was the one who organized the matter. There were also quite a few of them who were interviewed, who were allowed to confiscate communication assets, telephones, computers and so on, on the basis of the approval of the Prosecutor's Office. You heard something about this in the media. However, I must certainly say that what has been done in the last month is a major step forward both in identifying those who have committed and will be properly processed, as of course in the organisation itself. Unfortunately, I have to say this in the National Assembly. Of course, it's not the President's fault, nor are you Members, but it's the right thing to know. When the police were looking for the perpetrators, they turned to various institutions to help them with their cameras. One or two cameras are also in the National Assembly. The police are already nine. 11. Requested the National Assembly for the transmission of cameras from the National Assembly for a specified hour, i.e. between 16 and 21. Unfortunately, probably the secretariat, I don't know what the procedures were in the National Assembly, but he refused to hand over these tapes. He pleaded against the decision of the information officer, despite the fact that the police made it clear that there was a serious injury in the case of indications of crimes. This role has been assigned twice to the National Assembly by the police. Regrettably, these recordings [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Comrade Starović, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u32	Your Honor, thank you for your answer, Minister. I am pleased that the moves have been made, that the violent protests that have taken place, I actually believe that they are not those participants who were first accused of having done so. In a public appearance, a finger was first shown to them that bikers are guilty, so to speak, but those who gloat do not commit any violence. It's a good thing we have a clear picture in front of us now. A much cleaner picture, but still not clear enough, because we still don't know who the organizers were. I hope that this process will continue and that this will also be published. I also expect an apology to those who peacefully protest because it is allowed to express a different opinion, but violence is not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe I'll start here where the honourable Member is finished. I don't know where you get the information that anyone would say that those who are quietly snorting were doing this. I never said that myself. However, I said that the participants in Friday's protests were also in these protests and that they also called for these protests. Only in the next phase, the next time such a gathering was announced, did they refrain from doing so. Look who the organizer is, maybe we'll find out, maybe we won't find out. Of course, we do not know all the cowardice of those who organized it. Unlike them, who threw the dice at the paramedics and attacked the police and destroyed the property and so on, they did not, as I said, fearfully hope to tell themselves who the organizer was, for example, the last time we listened to a team here before parliament that denied the virus – you probably remember this protest from a good week or fourteen days ago, so there is no virus, the ground is flat – a protest in this direction they were hoping to report. They're the ones who reported the protest. So you weren't as cowardly as those who throw granite dice. Of course, the administrative unit refused to do so because the gathering during this period was prohibited, but Mrs Anica, I don't know how to write it, but she had so much more money to report the protest and she will pay the penalty. So we already have a difference between each other on this basis. If I end up with what I started before. Last time we asked the National Assembly for footage 2. 12. 2020 and 2 respectively. 12. 2020, we received a response from the National Assembly that the time range between 14 and 21 hours is too long and that the police should specify the time frame in which the offences were committed. It's kind of a very big ruse. Clearly, it's not just that at some point when the crime was committed, so when you looked at the clock, you saw that that gentleman attacked a policeman, I'm talking, 17.43, and of course it's crazy to look only for a picture of 17.43, because you have to see the whole period since the protests began, until they started gathering when they started to change, when they started to disguise themselves and so on. So the whole type of activity was that we actually wanted to see from this camera, and unfortunately we didn't get it. I am not saying that it is now crucial that we do not have the organisers, but I can say that we would probably have the solutions given earlier to get to those who brutally attacked the police and the photojournalists. It is therefore appropriate for me to regulate access to these recordings within the National Assembly, if the police need them, in a near future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, would you like a word for a motion?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u36	Yes, I do. I'm not entirely satisfied with your answer, Mr. Minister, especially with the guilt that somewhere else is the problem that they haven't reported, somehow a selective approach to this. And even the eyewitnesses in public to the National Assembly, and the things that could be solved, according to the answer, would say more precise time, but I don't think there's a place and a place to discuss it. I therefore propose that a public debate be held on the selectivity approach to these protests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Jerca Korče will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u38	Nicely greeted! Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, hello! Much has been said about the institution, which is receiving €130,000 200 of European funds. Let us concentrate on just some of the facts that point to extreme hygiene and clearly suggest clienteleism. First time. You were a co-founder of the institution. You didn't leave property until after you stopped hearing for the minister's office. However, you are still actively involved in the institution and, last but not least, through this you co-create the institution's policy. Second fact. In the section that decided on the allocation of funds, there were only representatives of the Ministry, and it was led by a member of your cabinet, who is employed on your trust and during your term of office. Decisions on the selection of recipients of funds have been signed by the Secretary of State, under your authority. The position of the institution that has adopted European funds can be defined as non-European. Of course, we are talking about the fact that contraception is a danger, homosexuality is even a disease, and in my opinion it is only a matter of financing content that is not in the general public interest. Reference to the Content Coverage Office, which is the subject of the invitation to tender, is also questionable. Of course, there are also clear links against your New Slovenia party. As we read, even during the invitation to tender you changed the terms of the tendering documents. This is a new fact today. You're defending yourself that everything was going according to the rules. And I want to know: Where are the values of correct conduct in all of these? Do you really believe in the perfect purity of your conduct, and do you really not see any element of the hygiene of such conduct? Are you really not feeling any taste of clientelistic behavior and really honestly assessing that such conduct is not in line with the function you perform, and in no way does it constitute sufficient reasons to assume at least political responsibility? These are questions that I believe may have caused you a bit of reflection within your own conscience over the weekend, and perhaps some revelation and knowledge will come after the weekend. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Parliamentary Korce, thank you very much for this question. First, let me say that the call for the co-financing of projects to help the most vulnerable groups of people due to the covid epidemic and its reduced consequences were not initially in the Ministry's plan. As a result of all the events, the impact of the epidemic has on the psychosocial situation of people, on all the hardships that we have felt, and on which we want to respond by helping them solve and alleviate them, we have managed to obtain two million resources with the Ministry of Labour team, namely, European funds, to organise as quickly as possible assistance to these most vulnerable groups. I'm sure we both agree that the hardships are really great. The call was also made to help vulnerable groups, those most affected by the epidemic crisis, and to provide assistance where people need it most. We have prepared this call in good faith that the aid will reach as many groups as possible, and I am sure that the selection of the expert commission will also ensure this. If I may, honourable Member, I would point out that 17 non-governmental organisations have been selected on this call. Let me read them: Study-Research Centre for the Family, Association of Youth Friends of Slovenia Ljubljana Moste - Polje, Institute for Gender Equality Maribor, Society of SOS Phone for Women and Children – Victims of Violence, Institute of Honesty, Institute for the Culture of Life, Institute of Anton Trstenjak for Gerontology and Intergenerational Society, Nadskofiska Karitas Maribor, Institute of Karitas – Samaritan, Institute for the Development of Human Resources and Social Programmes NOVUS, Red Cross of Slovenia – Regional Association of Slovenia – Regional Association of Volunteers, Škofijska Karitas Celje – Society for the Development of Human Resources and Social Programmes NOVUS, Red Cross of Slovenia – Regional Association of Slovenia – Regional Association Novo mesto, Ozara Slovenia – National Association for the Help of Slovenian Peoples, Association for the Quality of the Republic of Slovenia, Association for the Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia, Association for the Republic of Slovenia, Association for the All the tender documentation is actually published on the website from the beginning, and you can still find it there. The procedures have been carried out in accordance with all the rules and regulations and I have no reason to doubt the professional and proper work of the call for proposals and I also trust them that this work has been done well. As part of the call for proposals, the notified organisations could apply for up to €130,000 200 of co-financing for the total eligible costs of the project. All organisations which are recipients of this call have received funds in the amount of the funds requested. The organisations that have applied for this call have themselves set the amount of funds they need for their programmes. However, the Commission has allocated the funds requested to all 17 selected organisations. Any reduction would also be contrary to the tendering conditions. With regard to the change in the criteria you're mentioning, this is by no means the case. This is an interpretation of the educational education required by the invitation to tender. I've been particularly curious. I wasn't familiar with it before, but now I specifically wanted information about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My colleague, Jerco Korča, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Look, you haven't answered my key questions, or you don't feel in relation to all the above-mentioned facts of the taste of unhygienicism, including clientelism and anything else, to take responsibility as Minister from your office. I know all the facts you've told me too well. I also know enough about the invitation to tender, and we will also have the opportunity to talk about the tendering conditions, whether it is really appropriate for such an institution to receive funds after the content itself. Let's go from the top. You were a co-founder. You're still actively working with the agency. Another time. Who made the decision? The Head of the Calling Commission shall be a direct member of your Cabinet, appointed to be trusted. Third time. Who signed the decision after your authorization? Fourth time. Interpretation. So far, as I know, there was no need for such interpretations because things were clear. Suddenly, there is a need for interpretation indicating that the matter has been organised to be a specific recipient of funds, in which case this institution may also receive funds. In short, only these brief facts show that it is entirely objective, we both conclude that it was unhygienic, inappropriate, untasteful things that are directly related to you as minister. And that kind of behavior doesn't belong to the minister's office. When a person takes political office, he must also be aware that he will have to follow some principles and take responsibility when matters arise. And, yes, we agree that there are still some important means to alleviate the problems and pressures caused by the Coronavirus, even because, from May to September, you did not act as Minister to reduce these difficulties. At least at the most vulnerable. And these are the guards in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. This is entirely your subjective position, Madam Members. I can say you'd like me to apologize for who I am. I'm proud of what I am. I'm proud of the circle I come from, where I've been getting skills for life and for my work. I have been a volunteer in several organizations and there many other volunteers in Slovenia are acquiring skills, helping the most vulnerable and actually learning to live, which I believe is of great value. And we should also encourage volunteering in our society. For being a volunteer, I won't apologize. I'm proud to have been a volunteer. So much for that. About the interpretation of education. As I said in the first part of the answer, I said that I had specifically asked myself, when this was a little earlier exposed to journalists, whether the education of political scientists and theologians was appropriate to the tendering conditions appeared on the committee. In the tendering conditions, it was stated that the project coordinator, who has completed at least 6/2 levels of education, must have the first Bologna degree under new programmes or specialisation under higher education programmes or higher education programmes under old programmes, in accordance with the Regulation establishing and applying the classification system for education and training of teachers, psychologically, sociologically or socially. There was ambiguity as to whether education — political scientist and theologian — met the above conditions. For this reason, the Commission has relied on the provisions of the Regulations on the Education of Teachers and Other Professional Workers in the Educational Programme of the Primary School, which provides that a teacher of national and civil culture and ethics may, who has completed polytheology and theology, teacher of subjects of religion and ethics 1, religion and ethics 2, religion and ethics 3 may, however, also, who has completed theology. The Commission considered both educations to be appropriate in meeting the tendering conditions. This explanation, adopted at the meeting of the Commission, was then followed by the same for all applicants. Not a change, but just an interpretation or an explanation of which education can and cannot be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. There is no procedural proposal. Comrade Gregor Židan will ask the question of the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u46	Your Honor, the President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister! Regular physical activity and sport is one of the most important factors for maintaining health and preventing disease. We regret the pandemic of the crown of the virus and the related restrictive measures have also significantly reduced the possibility of movement, recreation and sports. Particularly worrying are the consequences of the lack of movement on children. The measurements carried out at the Slovenian primary schools in September showed an even greater decline in the movemental efficiency of children, which led to the sitting and the lack of movement of many children. The restrictive measures also stopped all non-professional competitions, such as the cancellation of all school competitions, the cancellation of competitions in the second basketball league, the resignation of the children's league and others. It is important to stress that every sport is extremely important, not only professional sport, but everywhere. However, the knowledge and experience that children can acquire and develop in organised sports exercises is extremely important. Both children and adults are already looking forward to being able to compete again and move around, as communication and social development are developing between these games, not just sport. That's why I'm interested in the respectable minister: When will competitions for non-professional teams continue, such as in the second football league and other basketball leagues and other leagues, children’s competitions, and in all other leagues and sports? When will the school sports competition continue? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member of the Jews! The pandemic of the crown of the virus did not in itself stop movement and physical activity. If that happened, we did it of our own free will or of our own free will. It is true, however, that the pandemic has restricted these organised forms of sports exercise and also competitions. That's right. This, however, is because appropriate safeguards must be respected, through which we are actually preventing not only the possibility of infection but also the transmission of infection. Sport is just this kind of human activity and activity where it is all the more exposed. When we were preparing for this second segment in particular, I will not talk about the first, because it is a personal responsibility and decision if we decide that, I don't know, we will not go for a walk, a bike or anything like that, but when we were actually looking for ways to provide organised forms of sport activity, despite these difficult conditions and conditions, and who to put on the priority list, we were doing so in cooperation with the National Institute for Public Health, namely with this epidemiological segment of the health profession, in cooperation with sports professionals in the international comparative framework, when we looked at how sport-sized, important countries approached it. From this review we have then drawn up priority groups and activities which, under certain restrictive conditions, can continue and carry out this sport activity, which is mainly at the level of competition, excellence and professional sport. In this light, we have also prepared – now I will talk about the current period, not the spring period – a plan to release measures between the most important social and economic groups in which we have included sports or athletes. As you know, in fact, from the very beginning the restrictions have not been applied to top athletes from the perspective class onward and to all professional athletes, nor to their competitive system. This, of course, by respecting certain conditions that included, in addition to continuous testing, these classical epidemiological safeguards that need to be respected and life in a so-called bubble. When we somehow started to manage such a procedure of sporting competitions, we were able to relax this part of top sports for groups of both youth and cadet classes. Until the conditions became more acute, we also provided organized forms of recreational sports training for those who are not athletes professionally or categorised top athletes. During this last period when we had to tighten the situation again due to the situation, we then released or rerouted this recreationally organised part of it, and we did not in any way confuse this individual or family recreational sports activity and let all of these already mentioned top and professional categories so that they could train and also perform sports competitions. But the rest is probably from your understatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My fellow Jew, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you for one piece of the answer. I'd say children don't move alone, so we have to be present or teachers. We probably won't get along here. That's more or less just over the weekend when we're parents at home. It bothers me that in other countries all these leagues play perfectly normal. In fact, non-amateur competition takes place in the same way as professional sport. Next thing. Top athletes are only created at the top of the table. Without training there will be no top athletes, no top results. But that's what we all want. This weekend, we'll say, first place of the women's team in the jumps, second place of Emma Klinz, then Jacob Fak third place, unfortunately the handball players didn't go any further. But, look, we have one big problem in the second football league. We have some teams that are professional and some teams are semi-professional. And they don't all have the same conditions here automatically. Now I don't know if it's necessary to relax or if it's necessary to say that those who are not professionals who work in their jobs, and they still train in the afternoon, can play football, basketball, volleyball or can't. I'm telling you, these big clubs are making a lot of difference, but these little clubs are insurmountable. But if we go to school, we're gonna get some really unsportsy kids here. The final profit is that there will be no good top athletes for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Kids. Of course, children can engage in sports, recreational activities with family members. That was never disabled. As far as schoolwork is concerned, the school curriculum. Sports education is also carried out at a distance. This means that teachers do their work all the time in this class, just like teachers of mathematics, Slovenian and everyone else. So I believe they're doing this job successfully and professionally. Here, too, if you want, a personal response to the information that children, due to the absence of sports education, are now having problems with overweight and so on. The question is more whether we then have a problem with the curriculum or with the performers, that this item is obviously not yet able to be implemented successfully at a distance. I can tell you from personal experience, both my kids are very active, they're practically all the time after the Zoom training program. Even when they have a subject of sports education in school, they receive precise instructions and this part of the process is also done in this way after Zoom or with some instructions without problems. As for this semi-professional part of sport and these lowest levels of top sports, also here, athletes have their trainers who give them, I believe, professional guidance, guidelines, in cooperation with their clubs and associations, so that they remain active or at the highest possible level of fitness that can be provided at this moment. And it's not just us, it's everywhere else. If I can still respond quickly to what you have very well recognized, this top-notch part of sport and the results achieved by athletes. Despite these limitations, now due to the coronal period, if you compare the results achieved in most sports industries, you will see that this coronation is obviously an adjustment or, in part, a different approach to training has left some major changes in the results achieved. Ski jumpers, jumpers are still jumping as well as any previous year. As a matter of fact, I think a professional, responsible approach and discipline can also defeat a fellow here and show him his teeth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. My fellow Jew, would you like a word? No, no, no. The next question will be asked by Alenka Jeraj, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I'll ask anyway, because I'm asking for some information, and maybe they'll be able to pass it on to me at this time. I have a question about the implementation of the provisions of the Law on collective management of copyright and related rights. I want to know: Since 1993, when was the first of the collective organisations to operate in the Republic of Slovenia, has the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology carried out any review or analysis of the work of these collective organisations? Does it have any information on how much money was collected from the compensation for the use of copyrighted works in 1993-2020? How much of the money collected was then distributed to rightholders? What role did the Office for the Protection of Intellectual Property play in this regard? Has the Office for the Protection of Intellectual Property exercised any control over the operations of these organisations during this period — how many, when and which ones? Did the Office for the Protection of Intellectual Property against Collective Organisations at that time raise any legal dispute — which, for what reasons and how much?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you, President. The app Stay healthy was initially thought of as a great solution and an emergency supplement in everyday life, as a protection, as a warning and as a protection against the crown virus. Since the beginning, the application between citizens has raised a lot of doubts. I suspect that the big brother would follow us at every turn was the main doubt and reason for the resistance to the app. Even the information officer gave a negative opinion on the use of the application. Since 17. 8. Since the application is available, less than 5% of the citizens have imposed it, the situation has improved when you requested the Government with a contested decision to impose an application on citizens as an obligation to cross the municipal border, not to use it. Since the adoption of the Decision, the transmission of applications has increased dramatically by one third. We suspect that they have not only increased, since some have transmitted the app several times, removed and loaded. However, it is important to note that when such high number of applications and the TANs issued were transferred, the number of such codes was raised for slightity, it is said that the users did not load the TAN code sent by the NIJS. My question is: Who and how did he examine whether infected individuals had loaded the application? Is there even a possibility of control? The app didn't work. I'll give you an example. The infected person has loaded the application and others, including family members, have not been informed by the loaded application that there is an infected person nearby. There have been many such cases. At the end of December, the error was corrected. MJU reported that the error was due to problems in communication between the back system and the application. My second question is: Why were users not informed about the non-application? The price of the application adjustment contract shall be EUR 31 000 842 and shall be valid up to 30. 6. 2021 for six months, then. I want to know: Will this be a permanent six - month cost for the next few years? I ask the Minister to answer my question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The current measures taken to curb the spread of new coronary infections affect all areas of our public life. There is also no exception to freshwater fishing. Thus, the measures left their mark on the operation of fishing families. In order to limit the collection of human beings, it is impossible to organise traditional events by means of which fishing families could obtain an additional source of funding for their operations. In addition, restrictions on the collection of humans make group fishing impossible for a certain type of predatory fish, e.g. codfish, traffic restrictions between 21:00 and 6:00, night fishing is disabled and sports fishing is also very difficult due to restrictions on movement to the municipality of residence or region. Due to all the measures listed above, the fishing families shall record a smaller sale of daily tourist fishing licences. Some estimate this drop to more than 60%. On the other hand, most fishing families have suffered severe damage to the fish stocks themselves due to the damage caused by fish-eating birds and other animals, cormorants, grey herrings, otters, and so on. Fish families, especially smaller ones, will only have the difficulty of coping with these financial shocks. Under the Freshwater Fisheries Act, the fishing family is a company which has a concession contract for the implementation of fisheries management in the fisheries environment and operates in the public interest. By means of concession contracts, the State has transferred certain management tasks in the fisheries environment to fishing families, and they must, on the basis of the concession contract and the RGNs, prepare and adopt an annual work programme, implement fishing, carry out sonar fishing, intervention fishing and, for scientific research purposes, carry out activities to maintain the favourable condition of fish, fish fishing, fish fishing, fish fishing and other personnel, carry out the control tasks of fishing surveillance services, clean water, maintenance of fish and fish stocks. At the time of the epidemic, the fishing families, despite the loss of income they are facing, shall, in accordance with the law and the concession contracts, carry out a public service and, by their own resources, without a permanent source of funding from the State, shall take care to regulate the water fauna. That's why I want to know: Are any measures for fishing families planned in the forthcoming eighth package of intervention legislation under preparation, such as co-financing of fishing in accordance with the adopted GGNs, co-financing of the necessary equipment for intervention and basic activities, financial assistance in the maintenance of emergency infrastructure, exemption from concessions, payment of education, for example for security services? For these answers and this help, I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for the question, because it is extremely appropriate. Let me mention that at our ministry we monitor daily developments in all sectors, i.e. also in the fisheries sector. We note that at the moment, most sectors in agriculture are suffering damage from covid and that we are also trying to help, by means of measures in anti-Korona packages or also through the state aid system, find solutions to at least partially mitigate these income losses. The fact is, as if the crown were not, it will not be with the help of our state aid, so we will also try to find the right measures in the fisheries sector. However, in 2020 we have already halved concessions in the anti-Korona package. We intend to do the same in 2021. You're asking if this is going to happen in PKP8. The PKP8 will not, because in the essential part of the eight anti-korona package, it has been agreed on by the government, in particular, prolonging job conservation measures, i.e. with regard to minimum wages and financial compensation, while all other measures are more than minor changes – perhaps to facilitate the implementation of the measures so far, or some measures already in 2020, we are also transferring them to 2021. That is why we also agree with the Government that, in preparing the anti-Korona package of nine, which is planned more towards the end of the epidemic, we are also planning those measures to help the sectors in difficulty when it may be easier to predict how long the epidemic will last, and we will also take appropriate measures to help individual sectors. Also in this matter, as I have already mentioned, we have in mind an equal reduction in concessions. This means around €160,000 of less paid concessions, that is, so much the reduction of the budget for the Republic of Slovenia. Let me mention that in Slovenia we have almost 67 fishing areas dominated by 64 fishing families, so three fishing families also manage two fishing environments. According to our information, the income has been somehow reduced, on average I am speaking now, depending on the fishing family to the fishing family, but also on the basis of information from the Fisheries Institute, fishing has reached about 60% of the original income. This is about 40% less income for the reasons mentioned already, due to sport fishing and tourism. We are aware of this and one part of this loss of income will certainly be reimbursed through reduced concessions. We have also proposed for fishing families as well as for marine fishermen, and we will also propose, in the anti-korona package 9, the same as for other agricultural sectors, a halving of the obligations of the collective contribution. On the other hand, we also need to find a solution for the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber so that it can fully carry out its activities. We somehow estimate that these measures will at least partially alleviate these problems, but we are aware that we will not be able to replace them completely, because we will probably not be able to compensate in any economic sector for all the failures caused by the coronal crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. My colleague, Matthew the Widow, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. But I'd like to invite you to this place and ask you again. It is true that you reduced concessions by half last year, but today we both know that only a reduction in concessions will bring very little to the fishing families. We're not talking about large sums of money today. What work fishing families do for the country, however, is invaluable. We're talking about 64 fishing families, and I'd like to ask you to think about maybe a single solidarity supplement, just like we've given to firefighters. We must be aware that fishing families, as I said, do not have a permanent source of funding from the State and, under the concession contracts, are obliged to manage the public service. Not all fishing families are in areas such as Soča, Bled, Bohinj, but are in less favourable districts, which perform a more important function with less income, less sold cards, and, above all, work in public employment instead of the country. So once again, I ask you to explain: Are you thinking about getting rid of concessions? Are you thinking about a single solidarity supplement, like 2,000 euros a society? We are not talking about large amounts, this is comparatively, and we are not talking here about marine fishermen, but about voluntary societies of fishing families that perform public service for the country. Not to mention that these fishing families are unable to apply for European funding because of your calls for proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The initiative is, of course, in place and I also thank you for the initiative. However, let me mention that we spend about half a million dollars a year on public service in fisheries. This is carried out by one part of the Department of Fisheries and in one part also by certain fishing families. According to our information, last year, in 2020, this public service was in fact fully carried out and the fishing families did not, in principle, have problems with the implementation of these public services, which we also finance. The Fisheries Authority has also had no difficulties with the implementation of these public services, and we therefore assess that these public services carried out by fishing families are, in principle, still adequately financed in this work. But we're talking about another part. We are talking about that market work, and I agree with you, who usually get it from fishing families with their market applications in some environment, from selling tourist tickets, annual fishing tickets, sports fishing and so on. In this part, I believe that your call is also very appropriate, that we are actually talking about some type of solidarity supplement, that these fishing families can normally come to the end of this coronary crisis. Because it is in this part of the tourist work that we are really recording the biggest income declines. As I have already started, I can end in the same sense, at this point we are counting on virtually all sectors in the agricultural sector to see income declines due to the effects of covid. Already in PKP6, we have the possibility of compensation for, say, agricultural economies, irrespective of the legal organisational form, as a means of helping to reduce income. And that's where these calculations are now going. Now I am talking about the first assessments, not the final calculations, because we do not have them at this time for 2020, because we are only in the second half of January of this year. Once we have this information, we will also be able to better plan possible compensations with the appropriate organisation of fishing families. But if not, I agree with you, but the initiative for some addition to the fishing family is exceptional on the spot. But first, we're going to focus on the possibility of compensation for income loss. Further, if this is not possible, perhaps a different form of aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The victory of Jelinčič the Noble will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The media are talking about a request to look into the policy records followed by police officers, like Mahnieu's conspiracy theory. However, I must say that in this regard, none of the members of the Slovenian National Party received an answer to the request and a list of when they were listening to us and so on. But in this regard, I would say that in previous periods, the police acted very politically, desiring to remove factors that did not sit together and meet certain political objectives. This was the case with me before the elections in the National Assembly in 2018. I must say, at the time, the NPU demanded and prepared strange structures. I got into the hands of a document that says very nicely that Victory Jelinčič was supposed to steal three pieces of weapons in Belgrade and sell them to Austria at the time he was working as an MP. Then some police spies speak to criminals from the General Police Department, the Criminal Police Administration says that Victory Jelinčič should go to the museums on one of Belgrade's official visits and look at the collection of antique weapons. He was supposed to come back from the museum in the night, enter through the back door, and remove three rifles from the inside of the museum. And then forward, the victory of Jelinčič would take all of this together to Austria, where he would sell it and similar things. On the basis of this NPU is still investigating this matter. When I asked them to tell me in the D.A. what was going on with a certain case, I just didn't get an answer. But what's interesting is that the NPU was asking my ex-wife who said I was being investigated by the NPU. I want to know what's going on here. According to my information I got from certain circles, from the same circles as I got this original document, here's a transcript to make it better to see that the matter was still spinning around in an NPU circle and trying to lead to discrediting me personally and a client with some unknown people I never knew. This is Stanko Zabukovec, let Brle and so on. I'm just wondering: Mr. Minister, will you once again shoot this NPU to stop the political persecution and to stop such insinuations and those of the designers, as they say in the south?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! Perhaps, first of all, as far as your particular case is concerned, I have to say that I have been asked and answered, given that they are independent and cannot provide all the information, that the case is still directed by the Special Prosecutor's Office and that they are working in their direction. It is clear that I have also said several times in the National Assembly that I am also assessing that certain procedures have proved to be politically motivated at least in the past. It could be one of them. As a result, I have repeatedly said that I want to depoliticize both the National Investigation Office and the police to the greatest extent possible. I do not have, by law or by my own authority, any direct interference with the powers of both the National Investigation Office and the Police. The law on police organisation and work only allows me to direct the police through my direction, to oversee it and to exercise regular and extraordinary controls in my ministry. I must say that in the last year, we have responded to each of these reports, and we have put in place extraordinary supervision on each of these applications. I must say in numerical terms that more controls have been carried out during this period than in comparable periods in the past, i.e. comparable periods of previous ministers. Last but not least, at the NPU, we started at the National Investigation Office itself by exercising extraordinary control over the exercise of police powers and powers in the Office, which is still under way. This emergency surveillance is likely to touch on this particular case, and on the basis of these conclusions we will be able to give you more concrete answers. However, I must join this opinion, however, in that part concerning the time frame. I must say that the procedures, as you state, have been going on since 2018, are already a story of a few years if we add to what is being investigated, and I also strongly oppose that things at both the prosecution and the police or at the NPU last or run for such a long time. Of course, it is clear that if someone has committed a crime, it is right to process it, it is right to find it relatively quickly, but it is wrong that someone, here I do not prejudge, that someone, when it is very clear, or that all the indications show that it is not so, then process years, months and so forth just to be constantly drawn to the media or that, to what you are hinting at, they are trying to politically disable it. Now I can't just say that everything in the police department is bad. Nor can it be said that everything in the police is political, far from it. However, some indications in the past, such as, if you remember, seizure of servers on one of the parties or the Patria process itself, have made it quite clear that some thirst is needed if it is to be politically motivated, that it is also possible with the help of the police. I believe it comes to this in a relatively small way, I believe it will be in even less. However, I must also say that we wanted to, or that after I took up this function, we wanted to, or we want to do, the police's case. It seems normal to me that after so many years and so many years, anyone who is in a position or in a position of directors will somehow be suspended. That's why I think it's a good idea that, in fact, it's a staff rotation. Unfortunately, we have failed in some parts because those who should leave after a few years are complaining to the courts, to the Supreme Court and so on, so we are still blocked in some of the human resources moves. I believe, however, that in the last case, the case of the Male, when the Supreme Court has somehow allowed the audit that we have submitted in his case, I hope, the Supreme Court will decide sooner or later also what the human resources solutions we have advocated are.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm sure it's an extraordinary case. I am also convinced that most of the police personnel are fine, but there are certain personnel under the tactics of certain political parties who have the task of discrediting and destroying those who are not fit. Clearly, they can't communicate with the police because the prosecution is in charge of this case. The prosecution, however, is looking for certain positions with the help of certain police personnel instead of seeking the truth in order to discredit and destroy certain people who are not willing to do so and who think otherwise. I hope that extraordinary control of this report will also take place here, the code is TD31, because otherwise I do not know, I have no choice but to turn to the European institutions. The fact is that the story started before 2018, this record is dated 3 January 2018, but the story was wrong before. However, it has happened that the Slovenian National Party has come back to Parliament and this matter is still trying to do something quietly. I was told that certain people would tell me that they were trying to sell some weapons from the NPU so that I could fall into a trap and get locked up. So what country are we?Oh, my God! Mr Minister, I hope and I am sure that you will do something in this area, and above all that you will close the NPU, because it does harm to the state and the citizens and that in human resources policy you will be sharp and "screw" those who are causing disgrace to the police, which otherwise I greatly appreciate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u71	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you, Your Honor, for this addition. One of the coalition things that we have somehow done to ourselves in this ministry is that we are going to amend all the laws that we have to do for Europe. This is tomorrow at the table, i.e. the Aliens Act, the Migration Act. One of the things that has been written in general is the police's handling of matters. One of the things that is very topical was these salaries, and the other more important for the matter is the organisation and work of the police. This law is currently in final coordination, i.e. intersectoral coordination. I am counting on being able to bring it to the coalition in the following month, that is, in February, which means that it could be at least coalitionly coordinated and committed to this respected assembly sometime in late February or early March. There are those solutions that I have already announced: human resource flexibility, not termination of mandates at all, but the permanent functions of the directors of police administrations, while I am not alone in the National Investigation Office, I have said this many times, and I have not been impressed, but I am still not impressed with the fact that it is lifted. It seems to me that it is possible to find honest, highly qualified experts working in this office. It's probably gonna take some kind of personnel exchange. After all, we have a huge or very large amount of unexplored crime, especially the crime of white collars, where these experts are supposed to work particularly intensively and particularly successfully. I didn't foresee the termination of the National Investigation Office myself. I just predicted his clear placement under the criminal police to know the hierarchy, where someone belongs and what someone does. At the same time, I plan to make the police even more professional, even more professional, through amendments to this law and the Law on Police Powers. As you've already figured out, most cops are like that, most cops deserve both their salary and their position in the police force. But it's like everywhere, not just in this system, with as many people as we know we have over 8,000 employees, there's always a rotten apple. And that is what the system itself should somehow eliminate or prevent from spreading through the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The fact is, there is a lot of unexplored in this area and there are a lot of such things that do not drink water, but are made for certain or political purposes or for personal purposes, even if they are trying to gain some personal benefit. The NPU was made out of the personal wishes of Minister Katarina Kresal and does not have the appropriate experts to effectively prosecute those crimes for which they were committed. The fact is that the NPU essentially abuses what the criminal police did on the ground and then essentially just signs under that product. 80 percent of their cases are technically unrestrained. We have the General Police Administration and we have the Crime Police, we have the Prosecutor's Office, we have the Special Prosecutor's Office, and these institutions can run it all by themselves without the National Investigation Office, which here mostly blocks things. We already know that the NPU does about one thing in one year on what I know, 10 days, 14 days or even one month, while the CSI does about 700 cases a year. This is inconsistent, and this is not about real things. Here, too, we need to find out who is behind a variety of things. For the fact that political structures are still being prepared against certain things, I will not only say against me, but I will also say against the whole range of people who are actually doing their work, and on the other hand they are not according to some. Let's stop this once. These are ancient methods, not today's. Today it is necessary to seek the truth, today it is necessary to tell what is and what is not, and those who make such structures must also be held accountable and punished. Accordingly, Mr President, I would like to ask if we can open a debate or, I would like to open a debate in the framework of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Aljaž Kovacič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have to be honest that I have probably, like all parents in Slovenia, current blood pressure of over 200. Why? As we listened to the press conference of the presidents of the coalition parties, at which all three of them said, we have prepared a light for the release of measures, which we will now stick to, perhaps we have not in the past, which was a mistake because different organisations have been pressing, no, this time we will stick to it. I started getting my first calls from my other parents yesterday, Sunday, or the school will really not open. Most in Slovenia or not, I have no record of what the press conference was like, watching the Prime Minister of the Government, who said we will open the program so that there will be no confusion. Today, one day later, the President of the Government gets the question whether schools will open up tomorrow or something else he got, but in the meantime he said that they might not open. And now, in addition, by four of you, the Minister of Education, the Director of the NIJZ and the Head of the Advisory Group, will deliver an opinion on the opening of schools. In the past, you have said that all three aspects must be looked at, including safety in schools, which is also the only right thing, including the medical, medical profession must give its opinion. If I understand correctly, the President of the Government expects an opinion from you as a representative of the school, the Director of the NIJZ and the Head of the Advisory Group. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary-General: What will your message be, are you in favour of opening schools or are you in favour of keeping schools closed?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your question, Member Kovacic. The question, which was not what I received before the meeting itself, I understand that it is a very topical question and that you expect me to answer something that will in fact be a final joint assessment, both professional and political, and the result is, in fact, almost hours after the changing situation in the country due to the emergence of the new English strain of the virus in the country. What I can assure you is that the school space for just opening up from a technical point of view, if you like, from an operational point of view is more than ready. The principals have also prepared school premises in the last days over the weekends, and in this sense they are prepared safely. They also prepared all the necessary instructions, provided them to parents, students, and their employees in what way, under what conditions, they should return safely and safely. We have done the same in addition to what we have done on a continuous basis in this last period, at the level of ministries, our ministry in cooperation with this professional work, of course, the guidelines and recommendations that have already been further prepared by the Education Institute in cooperation with a wide range of experts in this field, and with additional protocols of additional safe arrivals that we have provided with the assistance of the Ministry of Health through this large mass testing, which is being carried out today throughout the country for staff in education and education, which we are expected to return to work tomorrow. You are also right, the Government has also prepared this basic plan of release of measures in the event of an outbreak of the covida-19 pandemic. And after we decided in the middle of the last week how it was going to be this week, we were more than really responding to everything that was misled in this traffic light in this plan. In the meantime, it happened, once again, I would point out, if this was not sufficiently understood by everyone, the first identification of the presence of the English strain, which we know is what it brings. Some regional images have also changed in these days. Therefore, responsible and justifiable questions have been raised as to what and how to proceed now. During this time when I am here with you, there is also communication with all the principals, because we also want to gain their part of the assessment of how they view this instant state of affairs. As well as the expert evaluation will be obtained by the consultative evaluation and by the ministry responsible for the work. And if you ask me if we're ready at the Ministry, if I'm personally prepared to open schools and kindergartens, yes, I am. In the end, however, the virus will decide, and that is the only right thing to do. And once again, the three Z's aren't flossules, they're not pianists, but they're very serious and responsible at this point. The first Z is Z, which is called Health, with which is called Knowledge, we have it in the form of education, which will take place at the school premises or at a distance, depending on that. what will be a health picture and an assessment of the seriousness of this picture. And the third, which is the key and with which we have the most problems in our society, is Z, which is called Hope. Let us understand each other, understand each other, respect our skills, and be patient in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u80	My question was meant to go in a direction: What did you guarantee as a ministry that all students could return to school, not just the first triad and kindergarten? Have you foreseen in which the PKP, for example, to invest funds to adjust classrooms, to air-conditioning systems, to install barriers? Have you considered the rotational system of learning? But now I can't ask you when the other students will return to school if we know before the 12th that no one is likely to return to school. It is clear to me that in the end, the political decision that you will make as a government there will be a decision, but if I understand correctly, your President of the Government has said that he wants from all stakeholders, which is from you as the Minister of Education, from the Director of the NIJZ and from the Chairman of this consultative group. So once again, Madam Secretary, I ask you, as a doctor or director of the NIJZ, I ask you as a Minister of Education: How will you decide? How will you vote on the government? Any minister may vote in favour, against or ultimately abstain. And the responsible question that most parents are asking themselves today is where they can put their children tomorrow. Perhaps these parents could be the answer. Do you think that you may have dealt with things that did not belong to the PKP in the PKP as Minister of Education, rather than perhaps looking for solutions, how to equip and provide conditions for students to return to school? If I read the Constitutional Court's decision, it kept your decision on the accreditation of private institutions. So it is not known whether you acted in accordance with the Constitution or not, but we have warned you that these matters may not belong to the PKP and have nothing to do with the resolution of the epidemic and Slovenia. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. It would take almost an hour for all the answers to all the questions raised. We are going one step at a time, which is going to run out, but of course we are happy that you will send a request for a written question or a later oral session, I will explain and answer you. As far as the current situation is concerned. At 12: 00 p.m., we received an invitation to communicate our opinion by 4: 00 p.m. And this opinion will not be my authoritarian, arbitrary or any other opinion, but will be an opinion that will assess the dialogue, an assessment of the information that I will receive from those who will have to learn tomorrow. This is said by the school, by the principals, by the employees. And when I get that, I'll pass on that opinion. And in this opinion and beyond, at the level of the Government, I will always defend the first principle in these situations, and this is the principle and right to health protection. The way in which we can also exercise the right to know is more than clear. Ideally, the most optimal way is in school premises. However, if this can endanger health, it means that we will continue to keep it far away, as the whole of Europe is practically doing. So much for current business. As regards your question concerning the CAP measures. In the PKP, we have provided almost half a million financial assistance in our department for work in the fields of education, science and sport. One very important segment of these finances was also intended to help educational institutions with the additional purchase of safeguards. Each institution has received a certain amount of money that it has spent on what it itself has estimated necessary in this respect to safeguard additional measures. So this thought of having to know each other, I don't think it's justified and it's not fair. Testing, what is happening right now is an additional safeguard measure, free testing that is provided and available to everyone for their own safety and the safety of everyone else. Additional protection or protection is also very clearly defined here, in this publication, according to the individual model. Now I'm afraid I've run out of time to move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u84	Given that the Minister has run out of time and has expressed her own desire to continue, I think it is my duty to try to do so. I am therefore making a procedural proposal to hold a debate at one of the next meetings on the Minister's response and that, of course, he has this possibility, which he undoubtedly deserves to explain to us an even broader picture of its operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, in the framework of the votes. Alexander Reberšek will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities by providing professional and organisational support promotes the cultural creativity of cultural activities in Slovenia and in place. The recognition of the fund was under the guidance of the Magi. The Replica is particularly recognizable both in societies and in relationships. It has been identified as a successful director, who has successfully cooperated with domestic and international experts with the balanced management and motivation of JSCD employees. In his four-year term of office, he has demonstrated the ability to lead well and has received strong support from the entire collective. The invitation to tender for the director of the JSKD was published 3. Seven. 2020. The Supervisory Board of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities has proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 1. 10 for the new four-year term of office of the current Director of Magi Mark Repnika. The members of the JSCD Supervisory Board assessed him as an excellent and professionally-substantiated candidate who can also ensure the continuity of a successful work for the JSCD during the next difficult period of operation and complete the intensive preparation and implementation of the biggest event for the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU Council, Europa Cantat. 24. 12. 2020 has issued a decision by the Government not to appoint the only registered candidate for director of the JSKD. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: For what reasons has the Director of Repnik not been reappointed?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. With regard to the non-name of the former Director of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities of Mag. Mark Repnik, who re-elected as director, firstly let me explain that under the Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the cultural activities of the Director of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities, the Minister responsible for culture is not appointed by the Minister, but by his founder, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities was, as is known, established in 1996 and represents an organised cultural and educational and advisory network of 59 regional positions throughout Slovenia and, of course, a central service in Ljubljana, where 110 people are working together, of which 88 are employed and financed directly from the state budget. As Minister responsible for culture, I can agree with your statement that the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities by providing professional organisational support promotes cultural creativity of cultural activities in Slovenia and in place. But I cannot fully agree with you that the recognition of the fund is under the guidance of the Magi. The Repnika has grown especially since it is an institution that has been clearly and firmly entangled in the culture of Slovenia for the fourth century and is dependent both on other employees and, of course, on all the amateur cultural societies in Slovenia, which are over 5 thousand 300 and with more than 110 thousand members, and not just on roof cultural associations. During the period before the completion of the term of office of the former Director, and also in early January, the Ministry became aware of the professional services, with some letters and views of certain cultural societies and cultural creators, which also show the way in which it manages and operates in the opposite direction. The Ministry of Culture took note of a letter from the President of the Cultural Society, Ivan Cankar, on the irregularities and shortcomings of financial operations, management and management of the public fund. On the basis of the content of the letter received, the Ministry of Culture reviewed the financial transactions of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities and found that there were certain concerns about the use of budgetary resources. Intensities also indicate the absence of compliance with the Public Procurement Act. It has also been pointed out that, at the time of the declared epidemic, the Public Fund has ordered its employees to wait for work, while at the same time carrying out part of the temporary work activity by renting student work through student service and contractual work with external contractors and thus further burdening the state budget. If I return to the selection procedure itself, in accordance with the law, the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund has proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that Repnika appoint the Director of Public Slade for a term of office of four years from 1. 1. 2021 to 31. 12. 2024. Of course, it's just a proposal. It is the duty of the founder and the right of the founder to appoint or not, or from the founder, to review all the documentation which the Supervisory Board has provided to the founder in accordance with the law. Following an examination of the entire application, the founder concluded that he did not support the proposed candidate. The Government has demonstrated by the fact that I, as Minister of Culture to the proposed candidate Repnik as Director until September 2020, have confirmed the previous opinion with reservation, so the previous opinion was with reservation to the proposed public fund strategy. Therefore, the founder acted extremely responsibly and discreetly that the powers to manage the Public Fund were conferred on one of the members of the Supervisory Board, which is the only legal possibility and the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund to resume the competition as soon as possible. Let me also point out that the new selection process will try to ensure greater competition between candidates and will also provide a greater opportunity to select the most suitable candidate. With regard to the activities that are now to take place during an extremely difficult period, I would point out that the Public Fund is in a position such as all other cultural creators and cultural institutions throughout Slovenia. I would like to say that perhaps even better than others, since the Public Fund does much of the production work and the performers are amateur cultural societies. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much again. You will probably agree, Mr. Secretary, that culture is common to all of us, that it is not the left, that it is not the right, but that culture is ours. So it would be time for us to stop sharing and see what we can do for culture and culture, at JSKD it's definitely Marko Repnik, I'm sure. One of his greatest successes is precisely what I said earlier, winning the biggest singing festival in the world Europa Cantat, which will be in Ljubljana in July 2021 and will be the largest cultural event in Slovenia. In addition, I do well to assess his good work on the staffing and substantive renovation of the JSKD. Here's a week of amateur culture, a cultural school, and I could still list it. During the four years of directorship, he obviously made a very good impression, as he received the full support of most employees, other institutions, including the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, at the first call in autumn. I'm behind what I said before, what I've said now. Besides, mag. I know Mark Repnik personally, so I appeal to the appropriate candidates who have something to show for their work so far, that these people have the opportunity to continue their work and support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u92	Mr. Ambassador, when you say that culture is common, not left or right, you suggest that it is - what? That my opinion was different? Well, that's the first thing. The other thing, whether it's left or right, is that you've seen it many times, that it's left and that it might be right, because the left doesn't like it. Although I think it's common. I don't know Mr. Repnik as much as you do, apparently. What's that supposed to mean? I don't know. Let the people think of their own. I don't even know him. As far as Europe Cantat goes, yes, that's an important thing. However, do not think that it was necessary to fight extremely in high competition and to argue at European level, one would say, and prove. Yes, this festival is important, but it also costs a lot. And in fact, many have deviated from that. It's not foreign to me. And when I was already at the hearing, I was actually talking about this and, of course, I will support it, because this is covered by the Presidency and it will be a great event that will be presented throughout Slovenia. I believe, precisely because of the Presidency, that, rather than representing ourselves abroad, it is necessary to make a good atmosphere and to draw good attention to the fact that we are chairing a big event and that we are actually convincing our citizens that Europe is the framework in which our future is also. However, we do not need to convince Europe of certain events in Brussels, such as where thousands of events are and where every country is trying to present something. In addition, this is one metropolis, which is saturated, one will say, with many European things. I think that Europe needs to be represented at home, and this is where it needs to be stressed. And Europa Cantat is a real opportunity for this. This will be supported by the Ministry and will provide a large sum, totalling €700,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, we still have many social groups that actually need help and expect it, and unfortunately in all these seven CAPs have not been covered. People can no longer wait for the next package, nor do they understand why the government is wasting energy and also time responding to the epidemic with topics that may not actually have anything to do with the epidemic and are essentially wasting valuable resources. On March 29th, the Prime Minister of the Government said at a press conference that we would never forget anyone. Today, nine months later, we can find out that this was not the case. This was also used by the President of the Government on 14 December when he invited us to appoint one citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who, in the past six, had not been addressed to anti-Korona packages. I think now, if we look at the whole picture, they've addressed everyone, everyone, not for the first time in the history of Slovenia. Is that true? I have to tell you, it's not what's already turned out. In the seventh antikoronic package, children who have reached the age of 18 have been excluded, or students, as you predict in this eighth antikoronic package. On the other hand, we have an increasing number of older people, the older unemployed, who are at the Employment Institute, who are waiting for retirement, who are one or two years old, or even more years old, and who find it difficult to find adequate employment because of their age, or who are also just before retirement. Older persons are as vulnerable a group as pensioners who have received a 300-euro solidarity allowance, including those recipients of a cash refund of 300 to 450 euros in disability benefits. I am sure that these elderly people, who have also worked fairly for 35 years and paid taxes and contributions, are only a few months or years short of retirement, are also entitled to the solidarity allowance. That's why I'm interested in your opinion: What makes these age groups different from the pensioners who received this solidarity allowance? Will you be able to include this group of older unemployed persons who receive less than €500 a month in the eighth anti-Korona package? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear Mrs Muršič, thank you for your question. As you know and have also warned, the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the Second Wave of the Epidemic, the so-called PKP7, which entered into force on 31 December 2020, has brought together a set of unique solidarity supplements, which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities that I am leading. There were a number of solidarity supplements here, you mentioned them already. Solidarity allowance for pensioners paid by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance on 11 January 2021 to all pensioners resident in the Republic of Slovenia if they receive the pension paid by the institution under EUR 714. In addition to pensioners, beneficiaries of invalidity benefits who are unemployed persons who reside in the Republic of Slovenia are entitled to the same allowance if their remuneration is EUR 714 or less. The beneficiaries are also beneficiaries of occupational pensions which have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me add that older people who are unemployed are, on the basis of the principle of long-term insurance periods, entitled to a longer period of remuneration, which is governed by the Labour Market Regulation Act. In addition, beneficiaries of a cash benefit in the case of unemployment receiving a remuneration of less than 402.18 euros may, in compliance with the other legal conditions, benefit from financial social assistance. As a matter of fact, I am reminding and informing, in fact, from 13 March forward, when I call on all vulnerable groups of citizens to benefit from these measures, if they have been particularly affected by covid. If they are in material danger, due to the covid epidemic, they may also apply for exceptional financial social assistance to bridge the gap at the competent social work centre. I have also mentioned this many times, and I have called upon all those who have been harmed by the Covid epidemic to benefit if they are materially threatened. They may also apply for a grant of rent and other rights from public funds. However, if they are already entitled to rights from public funds, they may, in the event of a deterioration of the material situation at the social work centre, communicate this change, i.e. if their material situation has deteriorated on the basis of which the social work centre, as soon as possible, has deteriorated, issue a new decision by recalculation of the public funds to which the applicant is entitled. Finally, the intervention measures have also helped those unemployed who lost their jobs due to the consequences of the epidemic and were not entitled to a financial compensation for unemployment under the Labour Market Regulation Act. Indeed, PKP7 reinstated the possibility of temporary monetary compensation in the second wave. A temporary cash refund of 513.64 euros gross per month will be paid to unemployed persons who, as from 18 October 2020, have been terminated by a contract of employment for a business reason or who have expired a fixed-term employment contract and do not meet the conditions for obtaining cash compensation for unemployment under the Labour Market Regulation Act. So, on the one hand, the very important group that you have highlighted is older unemployed, on the other hand, there are many measures that cover them, but we are aware at the Ministry, and I am aware that this is a particularly vulnerable group and that in Slovenia older people are unemployed than a protected category in most cases, in which 65% are permanently unemployed. And here we also have the next task for a more responsive labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, you have said nicely and nicely sent those who in fact do not meet these conditions and legal provisions to apply for financial social assistance at the Centre for Social Work. But do you find it right that someone who works 35 years or more with such a low fee still asks for money? This is extremely humiliating for a number of employees. Furthermore, we also have groups of people who actually live in a marriage and do not receive, are not retired or receive financial social assistance. Why? Because their spouse receives a higher pension of just over €700. Therefore, they have not received an additional solidarity and this case is also that the lady did not receive any supplement. It is said that this family is in an extremely poor position compared to where two pensioners who receive a pension of up to EUR 700 have received a solidarity allowance from both pensioners. In a specific case that I described to you, no one got it. This family is in a materially poor situation, but it has also done the same thing and cared for, in fact, 35 years or more, or perhaps even less than a year. I don't think it's right that we're letting these groups go without helping. Despite the fact that the recipients of cash social assistance have also received an allowance of 150 euros, it would be reasonable to consider allowing those recipients of cash compensation, as well as those groups that do not have a single allowance, at least this minimum solidarity allowance, in order to make this situation a little easier for them. Minister, I suggest you think a little bit about this group in the next CAP. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this, in fact not only a question, but an initiative. It makes sense to consider all the vulnerable affected by covid epidemics. We want them to respond as much as possible to their needs with all the measures that I have listed and mentioned before. I think that many older unemployed people will also be covered by these measures, but it is always possible, as already mentioned, for example, in the children's allowance, that we will now include full-year students with the PKP8 to be eligible for this solidarity allowance. In the CAP8 we will also propose that those unemployed who lost their jobs during the epidemic will also be recipients of a single solidarity allowance. This means that we will also help this vulnerable group of people well, especially now that the labour market is under extreme pressure. Inflows to unemployment accounts are rising. On the other hand, with a number of measures, we are helping businesses to maintain jobs, so far we are doing relatively well, and we are also doing relatively well in the European comparative way, but it is certainly also worth considering vulnerable groups that might be entitled to this supplement, as you have given the initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u102	The Minister said well that this issue should also be discussed more broadly, and I thank you for this part of the answer. But as we can see, there are more and more of these vulnerable groups that need to be touched. Therefore, it might be very reasonable to discuss this at the next meeting, to see if there are any other groups that you so do, so I do not know, but will be found. Once again, I appeal to the President of the Government in this context not to say that no one has been forgotten, because people, citizens and citizens have been forgotten, and we can also talk about the name and surname of an individual citizen who has not received a single supplement in all these anti-Korona packages. Therefore, I really suggest that every idea, whenever it makes any statement, here I appeal primarily to the President of the Government, not to the Minister on you, because I see that you understand the matter, especially with regard to the explanation, but really need to be extremely careful, because people are so sensitive and we are talking here about the most vulnerable group of people who lose all income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, in the framework of the votes. Natasha Sukic will ask the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! As we know, on January 19th, according to the legal profession, the illegal eviction of an autonomous Rog factory conducted a sort of desant on the Horn with Mayor Jankovic and in many cases overused the force. On Friday's protest against Mayor Jankovic's will, the police acted again very brutally. But let's go back to January 19th. The corneas and their supporters are some 10 so-called robocops warm with rubbers, people have been throwing on iced soil and they've been cuffed, they've been hit by police stamps, they've been harassed, and they've been held there for an hour or more, and the police have also used some kind of tear gas or spray. One of the arguments that I personally witnessed to him, why they wanted to put someone in a box, was because you were wearing a mask when you were hiding your face because you were hiding your identity. Imagine that! That was the police's argument in the middle of the epidemic. That's the kind of police that engulfed the food delivery guy because he wanted to eat a burek and took off his mask when he was on the road alone. The result of these brutal acts: more wounded in the E.R., several people with eyes inflamed because of tear gas, including an 80-year-old former evening journalist. Police officers and security guards have not even allowed their documents, their art props, even the evacuations of their animals, which is in direct conflict with Article 84 of the Real Law. Of course, we documented the event, so that there were no excuses for cruel and brutal violence in front of an autonomous Rog factory, it simply cannot be. As Luke, one of the participants in Friday’s protest, says, I quote: “The police were violent again. Apparently, for black-dressed young people with anti-capitalist and anti-authoristic messages, he has different criteria. Again, most police units were made up of robotics, some of them even with rifles. Very quickly and only after a few general warnings that the crowd should disperse, they used tear gas or, I think, pepper spray. I have seen and experienced much worse harassment in front of parliament, but without sprays and with no assault rifles. I think the police are brutalizing, which I am very worried about.” End of story. Yes, Minister, the police are undoubtedly brutalizing themselves. So I want to know: What's your comment on that? How, in fact, will you take action on what sanctions, if any, you think the perpetrators of the violence against the Horns and their supporters from the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration should go down? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. If I start from the end of the question, I must say, of course, that we have also looked at the allegations within the ministry or the police, or the statements that the lady has just given, and the media have now, held. And, of course, I have to say, they don't hold 100% of the work. If we are to act against the police, I can only say this that we will probably give all those, including the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, some recognition because they again carried out their affairs professionally, highly qualified, Stoic and just as the police must. If we go a little bit to the facts, we have to ask ourselves first, I usually wonder what's causing it. Where did this autonomy come from? We usually imagine that autonomy means that you're independent of something, that you actually take care of yourself, that you create your own food, that an autonomous power plant means that you get your own energy, and so on. I'd like to call this autonomous factory, which is what you call it, more than an autonomously named the Horn Paratrooper. It's an indisputable fact that these people have moved into these premises illegally. This was undisputedly determined by the court. I understand that your client's property is not sacred to you. Finally, in this House, you have also announced how you will nationalize things, from factories to banks, even something like that I have heard that all those who have more than one apartment, even at the apartment, because it is not appropriate for someone to have more housing. The municipality of Ljubljana informed the police the day before 19. 1. that they have the legal judgment of the court by which they will empty this parasite plant of the Horn and, of course, request or inform the police that they wish anything to come to be ready. In view of the fact that the city council had a contract with the security service, which carried out matters in the way it had to, it was 19. 1. As we predicted, as a result of this, we have, of course, prepared both material and human resources for the proper insurance of this intervention a day earlier, and the police have been prepared. 19. 1. We were informed about the beginning of violence against the security service by the contractual partner of the Ljubljana Municipality, this is Valina, and of course the police started by preventing or ensuring public order and peace. How do you start with this thing? It starts with a warning, first you warn someone not to do something, after someone doesn't follow that warning, you tell him to, so the next level of police authority. When it wasn't there, they started using coercive means. So it's a matter of forcible means, such as bonding, fastening, detention, and so on. Anyone who has been violent or who has started aggression in this case is more than clear. As you know, these so-called autonomists against the police started throwing torches, bottles, pyrotechnics, not least, on several police vehicles they broke through or destroyed tires, climbed tools, or on construction workers’ machines, who came there to break the case in accordance with a court order. It is therefore more than clear that in this case the police have worked or carried out their tasks in accordance with Article 74 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and that, of course, there has been no excess of powers or even more. As you know, the protestors then moved from Rog to the city house, and there was also a need to protect the police in order not to force anyone into Rotov. Later they returned to the Horn again, where there were about 150. The full report shows that, when establishing public order and peace, police officers will use the following powers and measures: against two persons in the District Public Prosecutor's Office will file criminal charges for the alleged suspicion of criminal service under Article 220 of the Criminal Code, i.e. property damage; eight persons on-site have issued payment orders for violations of the Public Order Act; 12 persons have been ordered to be detained because they were violent; they are then released, of course, against one person, to the competent criminal authority; 17 persons have carried out identification procedures; 13 have used coercive measures; and one person has also been ordered to do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. You've very juicyly described what an autonomous horn factory means, amazingly, for the anals of history. But we're going to talk a little bit about what the rule of law is, because you obviously don't understand. The basic property of the rule of law is that only the competent authority, at the decision of the court and no one else, can enforce claims in it. Even if I have the right to take possession of its property, it must not do so voluntarily, but it can only achieve the protection of its rights in judicial enforcement. And the police have certainly been informed that there was no executioner at the Rog Autonomous Factory. Thus, the police, not only the mayor, have acted voluntarily, and this is in accordance with Article 310 of the Penal Code the reason for calling off the Minister of the Interior, therefore because you are objectively responsible for the completely illegal conduct of the police. It should also, of course, give up the entire top of the Ljubljana Police Administration. Of course, there should be no doubt about this if Slovenia was even a legal state, which I fear is no longer under the government of Janez Janša since March. Article 310, Minister, the Penal Code, read it and you'll know what I'm talking about. We should actually know that. Minister, that's why I'm asking: After this last stunt and incoherence, will you make a dignified and dignified decision and finally irrevocable irrevocably give up, or will you rather re-breather on the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and continue to imagine that this does not apply to you? I'm really interested. And I'm going to tell you something else, I have people's testimony about how they put a girl in a box because they accused her of being the one who was supposed to be throwing something, and she came to look at it in the evening, and it wasn't even there in the day, they put her in there, they had her in there for over an hour, and they ended up charging her with 600 euros in fines. Why? Just because it's quiet in there. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. In this case, however, I am almost certain that the vast majority of Slovenian citizens, i.e. all those who have followed the case, have somehow finally found that what was happening in this parasite factory of the Horn, but it is time for it to end somehow. I must say that, of course, there has been much written about a pact between Jankovic and the right and so forth, and it must be made clear that the police, with execution itself, with the work involved in the Horn's emptiness and, of course, the destruction of the facilities, we must of course know that the city council has for a long time had a building permit both for demolition and for new construction. After the police were called by the Security Service, which protected the facility on the basis of the order of the Ljubljana Municipality, they came to help ensure public order and peace. You'll find it hard to convince me, not at all, but 95% of the Slovenians, maybe some of your loyal voters didn't throw torches against the police there, they didn't throw bottles, they didn't eventually cut tires on police cars, and so on. So these are indisputable facts, which, of course, cannot be denied and were not just caused by themselves, but by those who were either in the Horn, or by those who, in this way, violently acquire property, violent usurpation and so on, support. I think that there are not many of them in our society, so of course I think the decision itself, which has passed the judicial path, the Ljubljana Municipality, seems to me that since 2016 it has been trying to move these people who have forcibly moved into these premises. I think it's more horrifying for the rule of law what you're saying, the fact that someone takes four or five years to violently expel someone who's settled in his property. Of course, it is clear that even those statements cited by the protestors, if that being something from the city, means that everyone can be there, so that everyone can get there, everyone can settle in there and so on. That's the depraved one, I'd say, if I called it, a depraved thought, even as a result of your client promoting renationalisation, tribalism, property distribution, private property and so on. Once again, I would like to point out that the police carried out their work legally, professionally and on the basis of a direct call received by the security service that protected the facility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Look, Minister, for the first time, you obviously have no idea how the autonomous zone ever came into being when you say that they moved in violently. They're not. They began working there in agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana. Just ask yourself a little questions before you talk nonsense. Secondly, the police apparently didn't act in accordance with the law. Because if I did, I would take into account Article 310 of the Penal Code, Article 84 of the Real Law and so on. But let's leave it, see, the courts will tell their story. Members and Members, the increasingly brutalisation of the police is indeed necessary to end. Things just went too far. I suggest that we discuss this seriously in order to meet in the National Assembly for this purpose. That's my procedural proposal. Because the obvious fact is that the police are actually becoming more brutal with this government. This is reflected in any crowd control, especially in protests against the government. As you can see, they also use some kind of spray or tear gas. So we can conclude that this is a new modus operandi used by the police under new leadership. But our democracy is increasingly transforming into a facade democracy. An increasingly self-sufficient government, which no longer respects the Constitutional Court, has been cruelly accountable to everyone who has it, whether or not they dare to criticize it and disagree with it. The aim, as it is said, is to be clear - uncompromising silence of all, cruel intimidation of people, so that they will no longer dare to protest against the decisions of the state and/or local authorities, even if these decisions are illegal, according to the legal profession, Jankovic's eviction of an autonomous Rog factory. I quote part of the record of Žiga Brdnik in the evening officer: "Anyone who now enjoys the accident of corneas and corneas, bakeries and bakeries, refugees and fugitives is worth reminding them that they can be the next. As we see in the inhumane treatment of refugees, if they are not ours and not our concern, we will look at the site in equal treatment of frozen, beaten and evicted squatters, only this time our citizens and citizens in our country, because we do not agree with their way of life, creation and thinking." Where this leads, Lutheran pastor Martin Niemöller, who wrote in self-critical writing from his own experience in the rise of Nazism in Germany, quoted: “They came for Communists and I remained silent because I was not a Communist. They came for the Jews, and I stayed silent because I wasn't Jewish. They came for the union and I stayed quiet because I wasn't a unionist. They came for the Catholics, and I stayed quiet because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and there was no one else to speak to." End of story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, within the framework of the votes. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! My question will be up-to-date, as is the case with all the questions that we are asking or referring to the Ministry or the Minister, I think they are already over 40. In Slovenia, schools have been closed and write for 90 days, with the exception of those things, working children with special needs. These consequences are long - term, and they are clearly visible now, and many of them do not even know what lies ahead. Children are more anxious, angry, impatient, even apathetic, anxious, some also depressed, and even high school graduates report this very much. At home, children are afraid, afraid for their future. Hospitalizations are also on the rise due to suicide attempts to stop us from thinking about what is going to happen on pedopsychiatrics later. Students absolutely miss this personal contact with teachers, of course, personal contact with their classmates. They spend a lot of time studying at home, and the question is, what is this knowledge? Before computers spend 10 hours a day, some even more, of course not just because of school obligations. In fact, children are currently very burdened by this uncertainty. Some of them, of course, will also go a long way. They're also robbed of social skills, they're robbed of sports activities. Even today, my colleague Gregor asked about these sports activities that are being conducted. Thieves are training. In short, it is collected, it is very amassed in children and, of course, also in parents. In fact, distance education is still a problem, and there is an overcrowding of teachers, including students, that we do not even talk about parents. The technical problems are still in sight, the lack of coverage with the Internet, some still do not have computer equipment. We can read in the newspaper that there are almost 3,000 such children. So it's not all taken care of. That's why I'm interested in the first part, Madam Secretary-General: How will you specifically address the consequences of the epidemic on children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are aware that we are all aware, not only at the level of our ministry, but I believe that at the level of society as a whole, that this period of life with and in particular during the active presence of the virus is extremely difficult in this psychosocial aspect as well. One part of which we can and can also help at the level of our departmental department is the assistance from the profession, namely, this assistance from the profession can somehow be described in several of the following sets. One is that which we give most directly through the forms and types of individual districts, which they prepare with their material mainly at the level of the competent professional institutions that cooperate with the Ministry, I am talking here mainly about the Education Institute and their working groups, which give particular emphasis to this psychological and social aspect of education and effects. The second segment, which is also extremely important, is a segment that comes from various forms of cooperation of the Ministry of Field Affairs with others for these contents, I will say, related institutions, professional ones. Here I am also talking in the final phase about NIJZ, I am talking about various professional associations that come mainly from groups of psychological science. The third level, which we find to be at least the most important and also the most effective in the first response, is the response to children from primary schools, by their teachers, teachers and, above all, the advisory groups. And let me put it here in particular, because it is not often mentioned in public, schools are also offering distance education advice to students who need it. Although physical presence is not possible, experts encourage them, encourage them to cooperate, connect, even though, as it were, in one way or another, the situation is adapted. I would also like to point out that, above all, at the level of cooperation with the NIJ, a number of aid measures have been published and prepared, one for individuals, children, adolescents, including adults and organisations published on the NIJ website. You can also get an up-to-date list of qualified staff and verified programmes prepared by the NIJ for these purposes. With a view to further assistance, a number of research projects are also being signed or supported at this time. I expect that, right up until the end of this month, through the Quality and Evaluation Council at the level of our ministry, we will be able to activate one large national project that will assess from all possible perspectives the effects of distance education over this whole period and from which I expect to receive a number of recommendations and also the necessary assessments from the perspective, I will say, repairs, recoverys in the future. But what is important now is that there are different levels, different types and different forms of assistance for individuals and groups from the point of view of professional assistance, and that it is particularly important that this voice comes to the individuals who need such assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thanks again. If I understand correctly, you have now listed to me some forms of assistance that are currently available, including these NIJS websites, where parents can read it. However, I am particularly interested, you have talked about this research project, which you will obviously now launch through the Quality and Evaluation Council. I'm specifically interested in: Do you have a plan to help these children? Say, proposal, study or change curricula, add, I don't know, more hours of sports education, add more hours, I don't know, in high school sociology. What are your specific plans, Madam Secretary? I believe you're thinking about it, but we need it now so that we can normally start working in schools. These consequences will thus return as boomerang if you do not anticipate them now, for the first time, and, of course, have scenarios immediately for how we will rescue them. Because if, when they come to plan, we can barely think about the need to save them, of course, we will lose generations and generations. We should definitely not forget all primary schools, students as well as students. Finally, all of these today are experiencing very great hardships. And we must not forget either those children who are gifted, nor should we forget them. We just go around a lot, say, those little bad kids. And you must have these plans now. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to examine and include all these suggestions that our LMŠ Group has given you in these thoughts or plans that you will give us when you have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Yes, actually these are the contents, these calls you make, I think are one of the most fundamental, most important during this period of distress and also one empathetic signal to the people who are in distress, that we hear them, that we care and that our first task is to help them. However, we must be aware that these are very vulnerable and vulnerable groups of people who need professional help in the first place. And this professional help in our ministry's department is the one that is primarily linked to the teaching part of this kind of professional assistance. And what you have rightly pointed out, where possible, has already been identified by experts at the head of the Education Institute by those learning content, those learning goals that can be achieved in these given conditions of education in a way that is effective, effective and positive, and have made recommendations to teachers in this regard. So this is actually about, say, controlling or mitigating this so-called professional pedagogical distress, which can happen both in a group of students and teachers because of this situation. Then, of course, there are other types of pressures here, and these are purely individual psychological distresses. Here, in particular, the assistance of advisory services, and then more broadly, I will say what I have previously pointed out in the framework of the NIJS, says, is also a very important part. And, of course, social hardships, these broader ones, which in fact have been observed all the time to occur as soon as school as the area of education closes. Here we just want the circumstances to enable us as quickly as possible, but because of the whole epidemiological situation, that we will also address this. Here the major role will be played by teachers in the classes themselves, then by how they will reintegrate the group, how they will activate this again in this sense, I will say, a welcome environment. What I'd like to point out, however, is the following. Above all, in addition to professional assistance at this time, it is very important not to forget how crucial this mutual human aid is. By encouraging one another to stand by, to help one another, to understand one another, to make peace in this sense too, to give every effort to make it as quickly as possible and as we have been accustomed to the same virus.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would like to have a little more concrete answers, but I believe that there are things that sometimes do not go. I suggest we say something about the Minister's response to one of the next meetings. In fact, today the President of the Government here has said something that, as far as I'm concerned, is blasphemous. I quote: “Children are not the greatest victims of covida”. That's what he said in the middle of today. I say that and that generations and generations are the greatest victims of covid, especially those who have been studying for 90 days at a distance in one way or another, of course depending on the teacher, depending on the school and depending also on the technical ability that the three-quarters of this distance schooling is also dependent on the parents, nor am I speaking. Therefore, I propose that, as far as I am concerned, the most important topic of how we will deal with the consequences for children, students, students, let us talk at one of the next meetings. This is about our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! A group of NGOs with the first signed Association of Youth Friends Ljubljana Moste-Polje sent proposals to the Government and the Ministry to alleviate the pressures of families and children. The call noted that they want to actively contribute to the formulation of policies that would help the weak to cope more with the epidemic and to halt the drastic deterioration of the situation for their lives. Particularly worrying are the data of these organizations to deal with poverty in families that have been able to provide their own survival before the epidemic. Families are faced with executions, rubles, assignments, unreasonablely high costs of moratoriums on credits, as well as the exclusion of water, electricity and other public services due to the deterioration of their financial position. Families often receive assistance from the country too late, and waiting too long for the regulation of public funds rights. Help is often too low. Some vulnerable groups have also waited a long time for a temporary residence permit and other documents. However, children who were deprived before the crisis due to poverty and inadequate family environment are sadly even more at risk at the time of the epidemic and in a much worse social situation. Non-governmental organisations also propose in their letter the establishment of a state guarantee fund aimed at regulating moratoriums on rent payments, loans to solve the underlying housing problem and the costs of water, electricity and heating. The moratorium would be provided during a transitional period of social hazard for families, its duration would be no more than three years and should be linked to the active search for employment. I must say that, personally, I am very much in favour of the proposal in question. In view of the above, I ask you, Your Honor Minister: Are you familiar with the letter from NGOs to alleviate the pressures of families and children? Do you support the establishment of a State Guarantee Fund to regulate moratoriums on rent, credit and water, electricity and heating costs? What concrete measures will you take to ensure that families and individuals in distress receive help in time? Do you have data on poverty for 2020 compared to 2019? How much did poverty increase in 2020? How many people, households, and children live below the poverty line? How much did unemployment increase in 2020 compared to 2019? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Hot, thank you for this question, which touches on me in a particularly important area, namely family and social policy. In opening, I would like to point out that it is at the time of my ministry and this government that, for measures in the field of family, the highest funding available in the last eight years is close to €600 million in 2020. Now for details, you've asked quite a few questions. We are, of course, familiar with the letter from NGOs to alleviate the pressures of families and children and we are preparing a comprehensive response. I am aware that the problems raised in this letter, particularly housing issues, are very important to alleviate the pressures of families and children. Therefore, this initiative, mentioned by you, with regard to the establishment of the State Guarantee Fund for the regulation of moratoriums on the payment of rents, credits for the resolution of the basic housing problem and the costs of water, electricity and heating, will be examined together with other competent sources. Families and children, as one of the most vulnerable groups during the covid-19 epidemic, often bear additional burdens and are exposed to many pressures. In children, these burdens are many times, too many times, which should not even be borne. That is why we have insisted at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and in the government we have experienced understanding and support that in intervention laws, as well as in general, we have considered them as a priority. The results are obvious. Assistance at the birth of a child, which is a one-time receipt at the birth of a child, rose from €286 to €350 in the system law. It is one of the elements of family policy and the promotion of fertility, and a special child birth allowance has come here in the covid epidemic. The parental allowance is raised from EUR 258 to the amount of the basic minimum income, that is 402 euros, and is intended for parents who are also vulnerable, at risk of being insured for parental protection, such as students and students who are unemployed, and receive it one year from the birth of a child. In addition, in the PKP7 we provided a solidarity allowance for all children up to the age of 18. In this proposal, which will soon come to the National Assembly, we have added the same amount for full-year students. All large countries receive an additional €200 or €100 at the time of the epidemic, and we also increased the child care allowance by €100. I can also point out that at this invitation, when we allocated 2 million funds to NGOs, 17 NGOs to help vulnerable groups have succeeded, at least two organisations, which also work with children with a goal, namely the Association of Youth Friends of Ljubljana Moste-Polje and the SOS Society for Assistance to Families and Children Victims of Violence. So we have also tried to respond quickly to these difficulties with this invitation to tender, and that is also what the programmes of these selected organisations are all about. At the Ministry I run, we are aware that in times of emergency, such as the covid-19 epidemic, it is essential that we take extraordinary measures quickly and efficiently and that regular rights from public funds should be decided as quickly as possible, if you remember, I have in fact warned about this and have ensured this since the first day of my term. In declaring the epidemic, we have therefore proposed measures with the CAP aimed at decommissioning the social work centres and ensuring to the parties rights from public funds at the shortest possible time, which means automatic extension of the rights from public funds that have expired during the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. In a number of ways, I agree with you. In many ways, I do not agree. I know that you have addressed certain issues and the most vulnerable with the future CAP, but the letter in question proves that we have not successfully solved the problems. If the number of poverty rises like that, if families who did not live below the poverty line live today, then we have not successfully solved the problem. The fact is, at the time of the epidemic, when children are home-schooled, the costs themselves are higher and, with a single solidarity supplement, we have certainly not solved this. This is a question that remains open to the next CAP and which should be addressed differently. Therefore, there would be a guarantee scheme that would not be subject to classical bureaucracy, but would actually be faster, the right answer. Because when they turn off the water and electricity and so on, and at a time when it's still cold and the kids and these families are home without any heating or electricity, the pressures are really extraordinary. In these cases, this one-off solidarity allowance simply did not help them. If only we hadn't received letters of this kind and calls from NGOs. So it's a problem that exists. It's a problem we can't close our eyes to, and we have to address it. And I think it would also be appropriate for you to meet with these NGOs and to try to include this guarantee fund in the next PKP, because it is a really good proposal and would address the difficulties directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much for the supplementary question or explanation, honourable Member Hot. Look, I'm aware that, in fact, just money transfers, we probably all agree on that, they can't solve in themselves the pressures that families and children face because of covid epidemics. And I'm really well aware of that by myself and a team at the Ministry. That is why we have also found two million in response to these hardships, we have provided two million European funds for non-governmental organisations working through the widest range of rescue and mitigation programmes, we can say that in the future treatment of these pressures caused by coronary disease. And that is why I have also replied to you that we will also study this proposal with other departments. Because, of course, then, what happens to them is, in fact, to some extent, to look insurmountable, but I think that society along with civil society, so we administration together with civil society, with non-governmental organisations, have mechanisms, we have enough knowledge, expertise and other knowledge, and we have logistical opportunities to establish as much prevention as possible to do so. Perhaps I owe you some more information that you asked about in the basic question. Unfortunately, data on the rate of poverty for 2020 compared to 2019 are not yet available. The data is not prepared by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia until June of the previous year. In the last three years, the risk of poverty has been declining. Slovenia, however, has a high level of efficiency in social transfers in the European scale. Of course, anyone who lives below the risk of poverty is the reason why we do not stop trying to get him out of the poverty risk. This is also addressed by a number of programmes, as well as changes to the legislation we are planning. At the end of December, 87 000 283 were registered at the Employment Service, which is 15.9, almost 16 % more than in December 2019. Here we know the pressure of co-infection on the labour market, and we are also trying to respond as well as possible to alleviate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Moving on, Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u132	I suggest we wait a second for the minister to come, because I think he's right, yeah. Thank you very much and very much! Mr Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about solving the situation in Anhove or in the middle of the Soco Valley. On the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space of 20 February 2020, almost one year ago, we adopted conclusions requiring the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, to establish a working group to include the health, environmental, local community, civil initiatives of the Gora region and Salonit Anhovo, which is to examine within six months the possibility of equalising the standards of permitted co-incineration plants with those applicable to incineration plants. The six-month period expired on 19 August 2020 and until then this group was only appointed. After the deadline, the working group met only once in early September. Thus, almost a year has passed, we are 25 January 2021 and there is no solution by this working group. Also, given that meeting of the Committee on 20 February last year, where we adopted a number of conclusions, virtually none of these have been implemented, according to our information. I want to know: How do you control the operation of such working groups? Which mechanisms do you use to carry out your tasks in the working groups? How will you address the inaction of this specific Inter-Resort Working Group to consider the possibility of equating the standards of permitted co-incineration plants with those applicable to waste incineration plants and to prepare a timetable for the implementation of environmental recovery measures in parts of the Central Soča Valley? How will you ensure that the population there is safe and healthy? I think we all know the story from the media very well. It is one of the most environmentally and health-threatening regions or areas in Slovenia, cancer of mesothelioma occurs a hundred times more frequently than in other parts of Slovenia, and in 20 years it has been sick or died from more serious pollution-related diseases, as many as 2 thousand 500 people. So here's a game with time, a game with the health of the inhabitants, a game, literally, with their lives. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: What will you do? When will these working groups carry out their mission?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u134	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. As far as the current situation and exposure of people are concerned, the matter is in fact significantly less problematic than it has been in history. This valley bears the consequences of the use of asbestos and, of course, the tax, including the blood tax, is still paying today. By equating essentially the disease and exposure that has occurred in the past, with today's exposure and the presence of Salonite as well as the plumbing and the like, in fact, is not justified and has no basis in serious analyses and studies. As far as the working group is concerned, it is true that it was appointed on the initiative or on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly, appointed on 4 May, started to work or the first meeting of the working group does not mean that it started to work, but the first meeting was held on 10 September. Of course, the key delay in working or inoperability at work is also linked to the epidemic and to the corresponding restrictions on people's integration. It is true that a multi-pronged initiative from the competent directorate has also been given, namely, the Directorate for the Environment, which oversees and supervises the functioning of this, has also exposed the possibility of a remote meeting, but has also rejected this working group, because it is a matter of important and difficult to carry out coordination of professional views, as well as the scope of these working groups, in order to be able to do so through videoconference. The next meeting will take place in February and I will do everything, honourable Member, to get the results of this working group as soon as possible. This working group is not only responsible for me, but also for the Minister of Health, and is, in fact, multi-disciplinary. We will endeavour to make sure that the outcome of this working group is known as soon as possible. However, it might be possible to underline that Salonit Anhovo has a valid environmental permit in relation to emissions and his work process and it will be very difficult to interfere with the rights acquired, regardless of the results. As far as I know this economic operator, I think he respects the environmental permit issued and all the restrictions arising from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I have some replicas of what Mr. Secretary said. Firstly, the situation is not less problematic there than in the past, only pollution is different. In the past it was asbestos, now there are the main polluters of Salonit Anhovo, the co-incineration plant and that other company, now I will not remember what it is called, which has recently polluted the water supply of a thousand people, and which in the tentacles of the inhabitants of Anhovem appeared smelly and dirty water, supposedly, with pH close to water, which has a washing powder content and an eight-fold value of heavy metals, including the chromium content. Second thing, people didn't die there in 1980, but they're dying now. As I told you earlier, only in the last 20 years have there been 2,000,500 deaths due to the effects of pollution, past and present. And that's why there's a civil initiative, and that's why the locals are justly angry at power because they've been playing with their lives for decades. This is not only said by him, this is the end of the evaluation of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which made this problem clear and clear last year. These are the words of Dr. Nevenka Mlinar, who was recently selected for Primorska's personality a week ago, precisely because she works in the Desks and has pointed out the health situation of the inhabitants there, which is accompanied by her own eyes. And that's why I repeat the question, Mr. Minister: Why isn't the task force doing its job? What time is she gonna do it? However, it is essential to reduce emissions for co-incineration plants to those for incinerators [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. As I have already said, I will do everything I can to ensure that the working group continues or that it completes its work as soon as possible. But this, once again, has no serious impact on the current state of functioning of Salonita Anhovo in this part of Slovenia. In fact, according to my data and my assessment, Salonit Anhovo fulfils the obligations of the environmental permit, does not exceed the prescribed values in his release and does not, as a result, endanger human health, because he should not have done his job. I am convinced that, of course, all the health problems of humans are the result of the past, this is the result of the use of asbestos and the production of asbestos in this factory. As for the water supply, however, the matter is clear, the provision of drinking water is a municipal economic service. Many times, not only to this congregation, but also to other congregations, we have helped to find a new source of drinking water, even in this case we would have done so if the local community had decided to do so. So everything that is the result of the use of this water source is, of course, within the domain of the competent local community. Let me remind you that there have been quite a few parliamentary discussions on this subject and on the subject of exposure to emissions from Salonite Anhovo, which have also resulted in conclusions. We will respect these conclusions, but we have not really been able to influence the work of this expert group. I believe that she will also be responsible and effective in completing her work. I'll take it personally, too, so I can do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, these very conclusions of the Committees of the National Assembly are why I am asking you this question. In fact, the main meeting on Salonita Anhovo was one year ago, and then a number of conclusions were adopted, I think that there were 6 or 7 of them, with regard to allowed emissions for co-incineration plants, with regard to the establishment of this inter-ministerial working group, which was supposed to try to regulate, to find some compromise and so on, but after one year nothing has been done. That is why I am asking you this as an initiative, so that you can, please, engage in this working group in order to move things forward. As for the situation in Anhove, I propose that you visit this place and talk to people like Mrs Nevenka Mlinnar, who is a doctor in Deskla, who sees the consequences of pollution in the middle of the valley and faces them every day so that she can explain to you better than I have explained to you what problems people have there. Second thing. As regards the valid environmental permit for Salonit Anhovo, this is exactly what the local community is dealing with there. In fact, co-incineration plants are subject to regulations allowing several times more emissions than those applicable to incinerators, and therefore this initiative is actually on the table to try to level these standards, to apply the same gauges to incineration plants and co-incineration plants. In fact, it would be somehow logical that this is the same thing, whether combustion is just an additional source of energy or it is the main source of energy, the people there, because of the current regulation, feel it strongly on their own, on their own health, after all, as I said, many are also terminally ill because of this and it is urgently necessary to arrange it. In view of the Minister's responses, which showed that this problem is a bit of a push from the table, I propose that we discuss this once again in the National Assembly and that Members be brought back to their senses and informed of the problem, I think that one of the worst environmental problems in Slovenia is the pollution of the Central Soča Valley, which is a strong source of health for the population there.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, in the framework of the votes. Rudy Medved will ask the President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health Janez Ivan Janša, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. It is a shame, however, that I do not have an interlocutor, because this is a topic that, before we receive an answer, will, of course, be able to breathe, or a problem that I would like to draw attention to. But still. Since 3 December 2020, Slovenia has adopted a vaccination strategy against covidu-19 and its main objective is to make vaccination accessible to every citizen of Slovenia, and the basis should be the priority lists. Priority lists in relation to the threat of individual categories of the population. But after the initial vaccinations in this area, I ask who is given the right to use the vaccine past or according to the inspectorate's arguments in contravention of the current strategy. For each dose is precious and literally means saving life. The President of the Government, who also serves as the Minister of Health, warned that those who do not belong to any of the risk groups should not expect vaccination invitations before spring. When the NIJ Director was recently confronted with informal information about the vaccination of non-grouped individuals by priority lists, he was surprised that this would not be the case. But it's obviously gone, and maybe it's still going. The information that this is really happening has been confirmed by the Health Inspectorate, who has supervised several vaccination sites. He also published data for 20 vaccination sites. Almost 300 such vaccinations mean 600 doses of vaccine already past the respective lists at this initial stage. Family members, friends, acquaintances, secretaries, pirates vaccinated past lists, you'd think they were leftovers that should have been thrown out. But what kind of remains? It is a non-organizational ordering of vaccines without specific lists and ignoring the basic law that they should first be most at risk. That's why I'm asking: Who opted for vaccination against covidu-19 in contravention of the current strategy and under what criteria? If something is inconsistent and wrong, what sanctions are provided for this? What does it mean to eliminate irregularities? How is it possible to undo these irregularities now? Is it ethical for family doctors to receive a few vaccines and to decide among the many elderly at risk who will receive the vaccine first and where vaccination is carried out? I want an oral response. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is also absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the Minister for Economic Development and Technology is not among us today, I would like to be asked to have an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. I've been pointing out the problem of border areas since I've been here in the National Assembly. Why? Due to the excessive centralisation of Slovenia, these border areas – we are talking about all municipalities along the border – most of them are under-average developed. And mainly due to the excessive centralisation of Slovenia, these areas are neglected. In these areas, we have a large shortage of jobs and, of course, younger generations are mass evicted from these areas. One such area is the Haloz area, from which I am not least coming alone. It is an area with an outstanding potential for the development of a small economy, tourism, agriculture. Unfortunately, too in this area, we are facing all too much displacement of young people, especially in the last two decades, and therefore, in some ways, we really want such areas as the Haloz area and the rest of the problems of areas, all the areas that are actually at the border to receive some special encouragement from the country. I know the Minister of Economy is very well aware of this. Last but not least, a good year ago, he set up a working group for this issue and some of the measures have already been exposed. I still want to know: What are the results of the working group dealing with border areas? What, in particular, will be done to develop problem-solving border areas? What, in particular, will be done to develop the Haloz area? Since I think it is only right that there is a broader debate about this, of course I want an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister! Just before the end of last year, we discussed the seventh anti-Korona package. The marriage text contains provisions which provide for so-called compulsory retirement in both the public and private sectors, or the possibility of termination of employment without stating a business or reasonable reason in case the conditions for an old pension are met. This content is not new. We are all aware of it, and in particular the Constitutional Court, which, in its assessment of the Public Finance Balance Act, stated that such regulation would be permissible only in the case of legitimate reasons, which, according to our assessment, is certainly not the case. At the same time, we believe that such an intervention in labour rights must be done through the social dialogue that we are always advocating and in agreement with the partners. As we have anticipated, the adoption of such a measure in public has raised quite a few dustes. The unions strongly oppose this solution, and constitutional judgment is also announced. In the meantime, I still have in mind, Madam Minister, one of your statements, that this type of measure is a rapid response to the situation in the labour market, where more and more unemployment occurs, particularly among young people. You have expressed your conviction that this is an urgent and effective solution that will benefit both young job seekers and older workers. Dear Minister, please explain to me how, in the current situation, when we are in an economic crisis and we are facing an even bigger crisis, businesses are on their knees, watching out for any expenditure. If the employer has decided to give up his job to a worker who has fulfilled the conditions for retirement, what does he have to do with accepting and hiring a young person? So, Minister, please answer me: How will you ensure that employers either in the private or in the public sector increase youth employment to job vacancies? Why did you not include this commitment in the disputed provision — nowhere else — if your efforts to increase the employment of young people are really so sincere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Mr Starović, for this question. In the introduction, I would like to explain that the measure of a contractual break in the working relationship for a worker who fulfils the conditions of an old-age pension, or perhaps even better said contractual continuation of the working relationship for a worker who fulfils the conditions of an old-age pension, was, in the PKP7 proposal for the National Assembly, then, as you know, withdrawn from the committee and then subsequently incorporated in the amendment of the NSI and SDS sent groups back into the adopted proposal and adopted. I explain that this is a bilateral agreement on the continuation of the employment relationship in the period when the worker already has social security in the form of an old-age pension. The change is therefore based on a bilateral relationship between the employer on the one hand and the employee on the other, as the employment may continue if both actors agree. So no one wants to take the opportunity to work to an employee if, of course, they meet the conditions for a retirement pension. Action, according to our assumptions, after analysis, reduces the administrative burden on the employer and eliminates longer administrative procedures, which will also encourage the international competitiveness of employers and their adaptability to the new situation. This is also related to the covida-19 epidemic in which you expressed your doubts. The measure allows employees to have the opportunity to remain in an already concluded employment relationship or to become employed under different, better conditions. The measure allows older people to maintain their work activities in adapted quality jobs, where they can also be as effective and useful as possible for employers. So, in a way, we are also giving the opportunity to have the employer and the employee agree also on the changed conditions of the job in the workplace where it is. Those who wish to remain active when meeting the age pension requirements but who do not get the employer's consent to extend or want to change the working environment will still be able to work or work at any other employer and still receive part of the pension and also income from self-employment. Therefore, all rights, including the right to retirement in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, remain in force. Here I estimate that employees are also sufficiently protected to preserve all rights acquired, social and other, including the right to work. We will take care of this, and I have also mentioned this several times, as well as my colleagues, for the greater flexibility and employability of those unemployed who are in the unemployment register between 55 and 58 years of age. Indeed, research shows that many employers have fired workers from this protected period and have not hired new ones who are in a protected period. So, twice the negative impact of the regulation so far, which this provision on the consensual continuation of the working relationship will also underline and we believe will have a positive impact on it. By hiring young and active individuals, you have highlighted this and we will have a long-term impact on economic growth, which is crucial in terms of economic recovery due to coronaryism. Maybe further down, if you'll give me a chance to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Definitely, if the employer decides not to use this worker, he has no defence, he loses his job. That's how I understand. There is no provision in the law to stipulate that if he forgives the person who has fulfilled the time, he will hire the young person. It's nowhere to be found. Third thing. We have been very unanimous in the previous government on the Committee, and we have agreed unanimously that there is a need to find ways to keep people in the work process for a long time, and that is why we have foreseen a reward. As we were running out of people, in our development, in our progress, we were running out and in need of labour migration, we had to import labour, I would say. Because what's the problem? This measure, which interferes with the system law, is not provisional. The system law essentially brings the costs forward. According to the Fiscal Council calculations from 39 million to 200 million a year, which undermines the public financial position and even the pension fund. We just put a burden on the pension register, and that's the problem. And we must be aware of the need to take measures and also reforms that will prolong the period when people remain at work. For seven years we have a shorter working time than Sweden, comparatively. And we can't stand this demographically, so we need to think about it, and I think that this kind of action is very inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much for the supplementary question, Mr Starović. I will begin at the end of your supplementary question – the extension of the work activity. This is certainly a challenge that we will also address well with this measure, namely, I would like to mention that the extension of work is being resolved at both ends, i.e. at the beginning of entry into the labour market and at the end of when we are a protected category or when we are older. Therefore, this instrument of a consensual extension of the continuation of the employment relationship will allow that if jobs are opened where the employer and the employees do not agree to continue, this employer will hire or any young person – I believe that more will be decided – or also one of the older unemployed or employees somewhere else. Therefore, this measure will allow for greater responsiveness to the labour market, which I have also highlighted as one of the main three priorities of our mandate when we are heard in the National Assembly. I may also substantiate some of my claims about labour market pressures, because structural shortcomings, in fact, the fact that about 65% of the unemployed in our unemployment records are unfortunately permanently unemployed, are now exacerbated during the time of the coronary epidemic and its consequences. In 2020, more than 30% of more people applied to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia than in 2019 and, of course, with a number of measures, we hide or favor this impact and preserve jobs. Despite these measures, unemployment is on the rise largely among young people, with almost 21% more registered unemployed young people aged 15 to 29, compared to December 2019 at the end of December 2020. I estimate that the level of unemployment in the future will also depend on the duration of the epidemic and the economic situation in Slovenia and the wider situation, and a more realistic situation can be expected after the end of the intervention measures. I believe that this measure will also ensure a greater response to the labour market, which is not the end of the day our objective and commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I must say that he did not convince me with the answer because there are still open questions about how these young people will come, and how to ensure that the elderly are not discriminated against in contravention of the current legislation and decision or decision of the Constitutional Court. I think it is right for the National Assembly to discuss actually opening a debate on how to extend the period of inclusion to increase the period of involvement of workers in the work process. Because this is one of the main issues facing our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 January 2021, in the framework of the votes. Dusan Šiško will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u156	Chairman, thank you. Honourable Minister and all present! The placement of energy in the Ministry of Infrastructure is in itself a strange legacy of the previous governments. Citizens are often confused by this, as they would expect power plants as economic facilities to fall under the Ministry of Economy. This also applies, of course, to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. That the confusion is even greater include issues related to radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the Ministry of Environment and Space. Since I would like to receive the most accurate answers, I am asking my question, which concerns in particular the construction of the NSRAO landfill and the activities of the ARAO agency, Minister Jernej Vrtovac and Minister Andrej Visiak. Forecasts about solving the problem of low- and medium-level radioactive waste dumps from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant are year-on-year and no realisation is achieved. I want to know: Or how will the ARAO Director’s announcements made last autumn in Krška be fulfilled in order to grant a building permit at the beginning of 2021, and this year the construction of the landfill itself will begin? Similar forecasts were made by the Minister of Infrastructure in connection with the issue of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. I also want to know: If things do not go according to predictions, where does it get stuck, and why or who is responsible? At what stage is the transformation of the ARAO agency from a public economic institution to a public undertaking? I'd like to add a question here about the headquarters of this agency. As we know, the vast majority of radioactive waste is located in Posavje, in Krk, and now there will be a difficult investment. I'm also curious: Don't you think it's appropriate that instead of the announced office in Krske, we have an ARAO headquarters to lead the investment from a close point of view and have an office in Ljubljana? I think this is also a good opportunity to do something concrete for the decentralisation of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. I can divide the question into two parts. One part is how we are in the process of obtaining a building permit for a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste, and another part of the question is how is the transformation of the Agency for Radioactive Waste. As regards the first question, Arso received an application for environmental agreement for the project on 10 May 2017 and an oral hearing was also carried out between June and July of last year. So if everything goes without some unforeseen procedural obstacles, a construction permit can indeed be issued in the first half of this year and the construction of this difficult-to-expected facility, on which the further fate of the nuclear option in the Republic of Slovenia depends. However, as regards the answer to the second question, there are two rules in the intersectoral coordination phase, one is the regulation on the manner and conditions of implementation of the compulsory public economic service for the management of radioactive waste and the other decree on the transformation of the public economic institution of the ARAO, the Agency for Radioactive Waste, into a public undertaking. The objective of the two is that the Agency, which has performed more or less procedural tasks so far with regard to obtaining authorisations for low and medium-sized radioactive waste, will take the form of a public undertaking that will also carry out an investment. According to the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Space, this agency will be established in Krskem on the title Vrbina, where it is also the seat of the GEN energy. I am confident that by starting, of course, an agency — an agency transformed into a public undertaking — will also be an investment activity, smart, smart and rational, that this will be as close as possible to the site of the investment. That is why we also propose this, and we can expect the adoption of both of the acts I have been talking about in a month or two.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wrotec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. As stated by the ARAO, an application for a building permit was submitted for the project of the landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste and it is therefore necessary to complete the environmental consent procedure before the construction permit is issued to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. On your question as to the stage in which the transformation of the ARAO is taking place, let me say that, in this regard, there are two documents, namely the regulation on the manner and conditions of the implementation of the compulsory public service for the management of radioactive waste and also the decree on the transformation of the public economic institution of the ARAO. Both acts are already in interdepartmental coordination, intensive substantive coordination is under way between the Ministry, our Ministry and the Government's Law Service. I count that these two documents will also be sent forward as soon as we inter-resort this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you. Of course, I expected such answers, but I have a few more questions. Let me first say that I support the operation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but I do not understand why all governments, left and right, are playing with these problems and delaying them. I haven't been in this post in a long time, but I've had so many promises and predictions that the landfill will be built that I can't trust anyone anymore. And it's not you as the minister and no minister, it's the ones who are responsible. In November 2018, I received an answer in this Chamber that the landfill will already operate experimentally this year, saying that in 2021 it will operate experimentally. As we have heard, last year's earthquake nuclear power plant in Zagreb and also after a series of earthquakes in the vicinity of Petrinje is operating safely. But have any of the responsible ones who have been delaying these procedures for at least 10 years asked themselves what if there were any problems that would cause the amount of waste to increase? Where would we put the waste if we've heard so many times that the warehouse is practically full? Do not tell me that these procedures are difficult and even in the world they take a long time – yes, they last, but because they are hard to get a location for such objects, and we in Krsek gave our consent more than 10 years ago and the money is collected. It would be really interesting to know who is in the interest of stalling this and why no government and minister can do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u164	Dear Member! As far as the length of procedures is concerned to begin the construction of the landfill, I agree with you more than you might think. This is one example of how one procedure is carried out indefinitely, and we have also classified this investment in the mandate of this government as an important investment that is being considered as a priority and the procedures are being accelerated. Therefore, as I have already said, we have made significant progress in this area, so that a cross-border procedure has already been carried out, a public decomposition has been carried out and will now be subject to oral treatment in February. I am sure that we are quite in the final stage of consensus-building for this project, which means that it will see the light of the world very quickly. However, as regards this long-term use of nuclear energy in the Republic of Slovenia, let me tell you that in the coming months you will have a long-term carbon strategy in Parliament by 2050, where we will also consider different scenarios to achieve net zero neutrality as regards emissions by 2050, and where we will also propose to continue with procedures for the long-term exploitation of nuclear energy also for transactions. This is also said in the following words, which will be a green light for all procedures for block 2 of the Krško nuclear power plant. With this project, which, of course, is essential for the continuation of this option, we think very seriously and personally too often – what would you say? – I am involved in these procedures, not by content, but to run efficiently and to give results in a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Minister Vrtovec wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u166	For a little while. As soon as the environmental consent procedures and the building permit are in place, as soon as we get it, the money is collected, we can go on call. Let me tell you that I believe that this invitation to tender is already ready for construction. There's no other problem here than waiting for procedures. Mr. Secretary has already told you about the long-term strategy. All we need right now is a legal basis for us to start or issue a decision on an energy permit, for example, for a second block. So you're here to agree that Slovenia stays and develops in terms of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u168	Chairman, thank you very much. As I have already said, these are issues that we should resolve before we decide on another reactor in Krk, which is obviously supported by both left and right policies. I have also warned several times that it is necessary to press Croatia, which is a co-owner of the power plant and is obliged to take care of its half of the waste. We may build a landfill within a few years and their waste will continue in the power plant. Do you find this right and right? Nobody wants to answer that. But I have read several times that Croatia is deliberately stalling. Of course, they're smart, because there'll be plenty of room in the nuke when we make our own landfill. Believe me, it'll be another stretch, but that's what the Slovenians are used to. I can see that the current foreign minister is well-acquainted with Croats, but I wonder if he mentioned these problems on that visit. Especially since their only potential location is the landfill, which they have barely begun to explore, on the Mount of Commerce, practically in an earthquake area, just 50 kilometres from Glina and a few kilometres from Petrinje. Yes, what a third of my questions in this Chamber have already been on this subject, but I have not seen anything move so far, and I do not have much hope that this time I will be able to make a proposal for a broader debate in the National Assembly, which I predict, even though I know that ministers are no longer able to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I understand from your last sentence that you want a general debate to take place. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister for Infrastructure Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec, all the others present! Prlecija has many cycling routes and this is also the reason that more and more people are planning their active vacation in this part of Slovenia. Although many cycling routes are well arranged, the construction of the Ljutomer-Križevci cycling track has been under way for years. In January 2019, a call for the design of the bike track was published on the Portal of the Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate and, in relation to the construction dynamics, the DRSI explained that it depends on the time schedule for land acquisition, the estimated value of the project and the available financial resources available in the future budget periods. In this regard, I am therefore interested in: How is land production going or how much land is already being obtained on the Ljutomer-Križevci cycling track? Are the funds available for this project, or at what level, given that the track in question is not included in the adopted development plans for 2021 and 2022? What is the estimated value of the project? What is the construction clock, so when can we expect the cycling track to be completed? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Certainly, cycling is one of the opportunities for Prlekia or for the development of tourism, especially in your work. As regards the verified situation, the current situation regarding the Ljutomer-Križevci cycling track project. In 2020, the R1-230 State Road was also designed for the surface design project on the one hand for pedestrians and cyclists from kilometre 00 to 4,8, followed by the Klutarovci-Ljutomer, and an ideal design for obtaining project and other conditions. At present, the activities are in the stage of the construction of the project for the execution of works, which is expected to be completed in the first months of 2021. We expect to have this made by April of this year. The review follows and the initiation of procedures for the purchase of the necessary land. Let me tell you, the land here hasn't been bought out yet. The project documentation worth even more than EUR 150 000 is produced by PNG, d.o.o., the estimated value of the project is not yet known because the design of the PZI project has not yet been completed. Given the scope of the investment under consideration, it will therefore be necessary to draw up a document identifying the investment project to open the new budget line. Thus, there will be a need for a new budget line to be opened and the construction of the objects of the cycling track is then foreseen for the following year, 2022, and I believe that funds will also be provided for this in the budget. So, on this section, on this section, as far as the Ljutomer-Crissians bike paths are concerned, things are going, but nothing is going so fast, and 2022 is going to start with parts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u174	I'd like to add this. I know that all these placement and redemption procedures take a very long time, so I am also very much bothering you and asking you about another issue, such as the placement of our Ormož-Ptuj road, which is already in 20 years. But in this case it is not really a bi-passenger or bridges or tunnels, but indeed a cycling track, and as I was told, procedures have been going on since 2016, so it is five years for less than 5 kilometers of cycling route. I know, however, that you have not been responsible for this area for a long time, but I also know that I can count on your words, which is why I am also asking for your help and support in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anything you'd like to add, Minister? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u176	As we say, look, 2022 I believe that the funds will be provided for this, the budget line I believe we will win, and then we will start just building. The investment is quite large, but I agree, the quick road Ormož-Ptuj, now we are waiting for the last permit, from Gorišnica to Markovec, and then we start building. Let me say that we are in the final stage of the second part of the call when comparing prices between the builders, and then the construction of what you've been waiting for for 20 years, and we started here in this term. As soon as we get all the permits for this last section, Markovci-Gorišnica or Gorišnica-Markovci, we will start building and you will have a long-awaited fast road in the construction phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next one is Mr. Edward Paulic. He will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku, who is absent. I therefore ask the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I am sorry that the Minister is not with us today, but, given the current issue, I have decided to ask him. We know that we already have the eighth anti-Korona package ahead of us, and we are predicting the ninth. Personally, it is crucial for me to finally draw a line between companies in lockdown due to state decrees and those who can act, even in difficult circumstances. Many businesses and self-employed people have not been able to carry out their activities and are financially exhausted. However, it is a matter of maintaining businesses in the most vulnerable activities at present, such as tourism, catering, culture, some service services, which the Government has not addressed sufficiently. The revenues of these companies fell virtually to nothing at the time of the lockdown. Covering part of fixed costs is a welcome measure, but is not sufficient. The same applies to covering the cost of waiting for work. The country covers most of the cost, not everything. Imagine an enterprise that has been completely devoid of income for months, yet it must cover part of the fixed costs not covered by the State, but must also cover part of the salary to wait for work of almost 17%, a real part that is not covered by the State. In the meantime, they have been waiting for the help they are entitled to, and in the meantime they should invest their money, which some have virtually no longer. If we just look at neighbouring Austria. The measures are simple and fast, with an average of 10 days to help. The measures also distinguish between the companies in lockdown due to the decision-making of the State and between companies operating in the face of market difficulties. Thus, in Austria, measures are selective and effective, which is also right. Since the coronavirus and epidemic in our country have been present for almost a year, ad hoc measures are still being taken and are constantly changing, I am interested in: When can we finally expect stable, predictable and effective measures for our economy? Since the Minister is not with us today, I want a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andre Visiak and the Minister for the Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! How quickly natural forces can take care of the catastrophe of great proportions, we have seen recently when the ground of Petrinja in Croatia was strongly shaken in our vicinity. The high-magnitude earthquake has reportedly destroyed more than 70% of the city's buildings and its surroundings, and the effects of the earthquake are also visible in Slovenia. In Slovenia, we have seen strong earthquake suns many times and it is known that our country lies in an area that has a high assessment of the earthquake threat. This year will be 510 years from the worst earthquake in our territory. It happened in 1511, on 26 March, and the epicenter had a significant Idrian break on the territory of today’s Idrian congregation. The last violent earthquake, which caused enormous damage, took place on 12 July 2004 at 3.05 p.m. in Bovec and affected the wider area of Soča. We also felt this earthquake at the regular meeting of the National Assembly right between the questions put by the President of the then Prime Minister, Anton Rope. Dear Minister Vizjak, in the budget for 2021, some more than €3 million have been earmarked for the 2004 earthquake recovery, so I ask you: Will the funds earmarked for the 2004 earthquake be sufficient? When will the overall rehabilitation of the area be completed, given that 16 years have passed since this unfortunate event and that the rehabilitation of the area has not yet been completed after reporting some? Dear Minister Tonin, we have seen that as a country we have responded quickly and in an organized manner and have helped our neighbours, which is commendable, so I ask you: How do you assess the readiness of the Management of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and respond to earthquakes in Slovenia? How are you prepared for this Civil Protection and the Slovenian Army? How is the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia involved in all these procedures for the protection and resolution? On the basis of the assessment, we must also plan appropriate equipment for the competent resolution and assistance services to the disaster victims. I thank both ministers in advance for their answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. First Minister Visjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u182	Dear Member, Mr Bevk, thank you very much for your question. When I took over the role of Minister for Environment and Space, I also committed myself to completing this earthquake reconstruction of the Soča in a relatively short time. I think there are more than enough reasons for that, and you haven't listed them. It drags like the yoke of the serpent this restoration, and this government has decided to end it. Therefore, let me tell you briefly that the funding for the completion of the recovery is provided in both budgets, that is to say for the years 2021 and 2022, EUR 5.5 million and experts estimate that it is sufficient to complete the planned recovery after the 2004 earthquake, so that the earthquake recovery in the Soča will be completed in 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Minister Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u184	Mr Bevk, thank you very much for the question. I estimate that both the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the Slovenian Armed Forces as well as the assistance of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance Force are adequately prepared to take action in the event of a more severe earthquake in the territory of Slovenia, which will also be demonstrated and tested in this year's state exercise on the subject of the earthquake, which will be called the 2021 earthquake, which will be carried out in March of this year. We are also preparing a major European practical exercise of SIQUAKE in July this year. The Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in accordance with the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, ensure the coordinated development of the security, rescue and assistance forces in the territory of the country, in accordance with threat assessments and plans for protection and rescue, and shall in particular provide the means of assistance or certain protection and rescue equipment and tools for the operation of all forces. In the event of natural and other disasters, the Slovenian Armed Forces shall provide forces and resources in the form of specialised capacity, logistical capacity and capacity to carry out physical works in order to remedy the consequences of the earthquake and other natural disasters. The Slovenian army also cooperates with capacity as a complementary force of the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The way in which the Slovenian Armed Forces are involved and carried out their tasks is set out in the plan of action of the military in the area of protection and resolution, which is called the VIHRA 21 Plan. In addition to the capacity that is in line with the plan, the immediate response of the Slovenian Armed Forces under the VIHRA plan is crucial with the activation time of up to 24 hours and can activate 740 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, allowing an effective response in the event of various natural disasters. Given the magnitude of the accidents, the Slovenian army also ensures capacity building through this number, if necessary. It is crucial, however, that we provide it and allow it to be technically refined, upgraded and modernised.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, both ministers for their answers. As I said earlier, in this hall in 2004, I felt an earthquake that affected the Suča. At that time, both of your predecessors went to Posoča immediately during the meeting, when the questions raised by the Member States, the Minister of the Environment, and the Minister of Defence, Grisold, were asked to come to Posoča and learn about the consequences that we are still dealing with today, and it will take two more years. I hope this will indeed be over, because the funds are provided. When I asked Minister Simon Zajc about this subject in the spring of 2019, he told me that by then they had spent €69 million and that several million would be needed by the end of the recovery, so that the total recovery would amount to €76 million. I would therefore like to ask another question, namely, after the earthquake, five years after the earthquake, the Ministry of Environment and Space gave another call to those who did not apply at the time, and it was not until 2017 that they examined 93 more facilities that were registered at that public call in 2009. I want to know: How is it now with these facilities registered for public call in 2009 that are included in this rehabilitation over the next two years? At least that's how Minister Zajc, the predecessor of Mr. Visionak, told me it was. In case you don't have this information, I'd like you to answer me in writing. I have also been able to read to STA today, as you said, Mr Tonin, that a practical and theoretical exercise on earthquake preparedness is being prepared this year, and that is commendable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u188	Dear Member! Yeah. In 2018, an additional public call was made to potential beneficiaries and the facilities and data I told them are added to the programme. It is said that 5.5 million will be sufficient to complete this earthquake recovery, even for those, which means final completion in 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Minister Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u190	The Department of Protection and Rescue is the organisation in Slovenia that ensures that the resolution is properly prepared and that the teams that carry out this resolution are adequately equipped. That takes two things. One is that the teams are technically equipped. For this purpose, the Department of Protection and Rescue is adequately concerned and there is no comment that rescue teams – in particular the State Emergency Response Unit, under which the special module MUSAR, which is intended to search and rescue in the urban environment at the time of the earthquake – would not be adequately equipped. In short, there's a hook made here. Of course, practical training is never enough. Also because of the things that have happened in the Republic of Croatia, we have immediately joined and completed the state exercise plan to put SIQUAKE, which will be primarily practical in nature, into the exercise in particular, say, the headquarters exercise Earthquake 21, where we will primarily check the organisation, system of command and organization in case of any earthquakes. One of the problems that proved to be true in Croatia was that they had some problems before they organized themselves in an organizational manner that things were running. With this kind of headquarters exercise, we would like to test and verify in particular whether Slovenia might be prepared for such a response. According to the conclusions and analysis of the exercise, we will then also eliminate possible bottlenecks, problems that arise. However, the MUSAR team and the State Emergency Response Unit immediately engaged and activated it to the highest level of readiness when the earthquake occurred in Croatia, if the Croats might have asked us for this type of assistance, they did not. We also hired teams during this earthquake to possibly describe the damage caused by the earthquake in Slovenia. Thank God there was no greater material damage due to this earthquake, but Slovenia, specifically the Directorate for Protection and Rescue, has already organised several aid convoys that have been transferred to Croatia worth more than 100,000 euros, namely mobile accommodation units, tents and beds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman. She will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Infrastructural projects are important both for the development of a place and, consequently, for the investments that we can then make there, and, on the other hand, we can also improve the quality and quality of people's living in this environment where we can realize them. That is why I can say that I am pleased that with the acquisition of the Ministry under your auspices these projects have also begun to come about rapidly. In fact, no matter what situation we are in in Slovenia and, of course, all over the world, it is possible to see the accelerated implementation of important state infrastructure projects in the last year, not least in our place. In the past year, we were able to obtain a building permit for such a long-awaited second stage of the western bypass in Slovenska Bistrica. The contractor was also selected, which already started with the first parts at the beginning of this year. Investment is important not only for the unloading of the city core in Slovenia Bistrica, but also for the company Impol itself, which will thus allow it to lay down the new cable, which is necessary and important for its smooth operation. I am glad that there has finally been a movement in the project of upgrading the node by building the subway in Prague. In fact, after three years of filing the first application for environmental consent, the process at Ars is finally completed. In view of the many years of waiting for our citizens to finally implement these two projects, today I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, to give us a slightly more precise timetable for the implementation of both projects. What I'm interested in is: When will the Bistricians be able to take a ride through a newly built western carousel, so when is it expected to be completed? When can we expect the construction permit to be issued in Prague? When will the final realization of this project be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. It is certainly the construction sector or construction sector which has major multiplier effects on the entire Slovenian economy. Let me say that Slovenia has had the largest growth of the construction sector in all countries of the European Union over the last six months, which is 15%. This shows that we really want to make investments, and thus the rest of the economy lives, that we also have projects ready. About your western carousel. I remember when we were in your congregation — that was, I think, somewhere in the spring months — and we agreed that as soon as we got all the permits, we would go to the invitation, go to the construction and we would start. There is also an economy in the back, one of the major Slovenian companies, Impol. Thus, the importance of this Western bypass is, for the first time, a relief, as you yourself have said, and indeed a start, an additional start to the economy. Impulse, as far as I know, is co-financing itself. The contractor shall, as regards the execution of the western bypass itself, be said to do so. Let me inform you that a legal building permit was obtained in December 2020. The contractor has already begun the preparatory work, so cutting trees and so on. The contract concluded with the GMW operator, d.o.o., from Radencev, amounts to around EUR 4 million in contract works, of which DRSI has a financial obligation of EUR 4 million 321 000 and then the financial obligation of Impol EUR 145 000. The completion date shall be 480 days from the entry into service. We're going to say roughly over a year, one year, and 100 days, and we're going to have a west road. I believe that with the good parts in one year, we will end this, with the active parts in one year. Let me put it this way: official introduction 11. 12, so it's from 11. 12. So 480 days is this period. And I believe that by actively joining this investment, operators will also be able to speed up their work. As regards the construction of the underpass of Prague and the upgrade of the node of Prague, let me inform you that the underrail in Prague will be built as part of the project of upgrading the entire node. Following the closure of the environmental impact assessment procedure at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space was held on 28. Ten. 2020 also submitted an application for a building permit and, in view of all the necessary activities in the building permit process, we sincerely expect to obtain a construction permit in March of this year. If there are any complications, I believe that with the Ministry of the Environment, with the competent minister, we will also resolve these complications accordingly. As soon as we get a building permit, we'll start solving things, or we'll just go into calls. As part of the project, arrangements for the railway station will also be made for the optimisation of railway transport technology and the arrangements and updates of the railway station of Prague, which includes the construction of two platforms, the arrangements for the staircase approach and the elevator for access to platforms, the upgrading of rail and rail installations and the upgrading of signalling and telecommunications equipment. There is also provision for the reconstruction of the permanent building, the arrangement of two parking spaces within the railway station, the implementation of anti-group fences, the regulation of watercourses and municipal infrastructure and the regulation of roads. As part of the railway station's arrangement, the already mentioned construction of the road undercarriage through Prague will also be carried out. Therefore, the contract with the selected contractor is signed, the time limit for carrying out works is 25 months from the introduction of work, the estimated value of the investment is EUR 88.9 million, and co-financing with European funds is also ensured, with a total of EUR 40 million. Indeed, we have waited too long for these procedures and so on, we have waited too long, and we have also threatened these financial resources obtained by the European funds. The use of European funds so far is not at risk, as the financial perspective period 2014-2020 has been extended until the end of 2023, but we are starting to build in this year, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u196	I would just like to thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your reply and, above all, for your engagement so far on both projects so that I can transfer these good news to my local environment today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, do you want more? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u198	I just want to point out that this kind of field visit, as I was involved with you at the time, we have seen in this case bear fruit, so that initiatives for such things are always welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter is next. He will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, good afternoon! I'm going to talk to you about the Trbovlje-Bradnik Mine or the closure. In 2018, at the end of 2018, we confirmed one extension of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which would allow for a normal transition and for the first time the liquidation of the company, then the normal transition to the rehabilitation of mined areas. At the end of 2020, that is to say, a bad month ago, the entire programme of closures should be fully implemented by individual programmes or assemblies or the final ecological and spatial rehabilitation of the degraded area left behind by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik. Following completed liquidation and remedial procedures determined by law by the end of 2020, monitoring and spatial planning activities on degraded areas fall from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Environment and Space. One month after that, we are, a bad month after that, after the legal date of the planned activities, but still the mining company is not destroyed on the one hand, on the other hand the degraded areas are not yet rehabilitated, are not protected, are not adequate or verified as to the health and safety of humans, animals and property. Plans for monitoring and spatial planning of degraded surfaces are also in the air or at least not known to me. Well, it's been an illegal part of the timeline for a month. Therefore, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for the Environment and Space, who sits at the top of the centres, who must be on one side of the mining work and, on the other hand, of the protection of the environment, I ask the following questions: At what stage is the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine? How is the liquidation of the company carried out? Why is there any delay? What is the strategy for the transfer of mining assets and surfaces? These are two areas that are very important for the local community and other stakeholders within it and also touch on some strategic planning for the development of society, the local community. I also want to know: How is the Ministry of Environment and Space prepared to monitor the degraded surfaces that are to be taken over after the company is winded down and these procedures are completed? How is communication with local communities in connection with the planning of the rehabilitation of the degraded areas of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and changes in their destination? In other words, what are the promises that the Zasavcans and the Zasavcans, the Rippers and the Hrastnicas of this mine, or what is left of it, can we have anything else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Which one of the ministers wants a word first? Mr. Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The RTH issue. The Ministry regularly deals with this issue. Let me say that I was in Hrastnik last week, I was with the mayor there, including other people, to talk about this, how to make things right. The Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine has expired in the middle of the previous year or at the end of the previous year and we are aware that the activities related to the closure of the RTH have not yet been completed and that procedures need to be completed at the same time. The ministry is thinking, let me say, it's really thinking about a number of possible alternatives. As regards the issue of the new applications, the opinion was also requested by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation. Following the adoption of this opinion, the Ministry will decide on further steps. The deadline for the implementation of the procedures will, of course, need to be extended, which also means a change to the law itself. With regard to the rehabilitation of degraded surfaces. We have tabled a amendment to the Mining Act, which is still under public scrutiny, and have also put forward within this proposal that in such cases the Government may, after the completion of the phase of the complete recovery of the area and the removal of the carrier from the mining register, lay down a new undertaking for the implementation of the works. This bill will soon be on parliamentary benches, and I expect support from you then. About the restructuring of the region. For the restructuring of the region and for the developmental transition of coal regions, we are finally preparing the one that has cost but we are preparing a long-term national exit strategy and the restructuring of coal regions in line with the principles of a fair transition. We will be very ambitious here, Mr Member. The strategy includes both coal regions in Slovenia, in addition to the Savinj-Salak region also called the region of Zasavje, and the draft strategy was prepared and presented in September. We are currently in the stage of a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the implementation of the strategy on the environment. In addition to fixing the coal discharge bar, the strategy will also outline the comprehensive economic and social restructuring of the two coal regions, including Zasavja, in which you belong. So, the strategy for both regions proposes three different economic restructuring scenarios, which will need to be included here, in particular I am also talking about a joke, a work environment, a family, social affairs, but sometimes another time. This strategy will also be soon thereafter in the National Assembly. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you very much. That's the shortest thing I've ever said. When they end up in infrastructure with this coal mine, let's do it, it's called the Ministry of Environment and Space. Since this has not yet happened despite the anniversary, we will, of course, perform when this mine receives the status of a closed mine space, as we have jurisdiction in accordance with the Regulation on the Management of Wastes from Mineral and Other Activities on the Exploitation of Mineral Materials. Maybe that's it. This does not mean that the matter would be over, despite the expiration of the year. I am aware of the legal opinion of the RTH coal mine, which states that this is a deadline of instructional nature, and that this does not mean that it is necessary to continue or to put out all the activities that need to be done at this particular closure. It is true, however, that there is considerable coordination on this issue of how to speed up and complete this story in Zasavje.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer. Minister Vrtovec, this is good news if the renewed Mining Act solves this matter. I'm taking it with a spare, a little after that recipe for the Long-Term Care Act, for example. The mining sector has also been in need of a clear overhaul for years, and we will talk about it when it is actually on the table and we will be able to decide on it and see what the effects are, let's say, in particular, in this region. The more I'm interested in the whole thing, the more I'm going to change the question that's already been asked, the more it's going to happen. The law on the closure of RTH, which we adopted in 2018, provides for the end of the timeline at the end of 2020. Until then, the Ministry of Infrastructure should essentially monitor the implementation of the closing works and ensure that the company operates in accordance with the law or does not violate it. The Ministry of Environment and Space, although I understand that it is technically only when mining works, when this mining story ends and we operate with a degraded environment, then the ministry comes, but here only some preparatory work can be done to say, at the lager, that with 1. 1. 2021 here then enters the game with monitoring and by helping to rehabilitate degraded areas. So I see a failure on both titles. I'm actually curious, and I'm asking why it happened. By this point, the law had a period of two years from the adoption of the final work in the timeline to be implemented. I know it's not a simple procedure, but two years are two years. And in the beginning, the mine itself predicted that it would take two years and those funds, three million and something that they needed. And now I want to know: Why is the Ministry of the Environment and Space at this point not ready for its share of the deal? Why didn't the Ministry of Infrastructure keep an eye on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u208	Your Honor! It's like calling a funeral service while the patient's still alive. We come in line when the mine gets its closed area status, and then we will act in accordance with the Regulation on the Management of Waste from Mining and Other Activities of the exploitation of Mineral Materials in the monitoring or measurement of the value of potentially harmful elements, sediments and the verification of stability and the erosion of landfills and the like. We cannot, before the work is finished, start with some preparations and have something on the standby, we will perform when our time, when we will also have a legal basis for funds for this purpose. Look, the financial plans of all ministries are audited annually by the Court of Auditors, and we cannot afford to waste money on things for which we do not have a legal basis. And don't talk, I'm asking you nicely to do whatever it is we're late for. We are not missing anything, and we will be performing our activities when the time laid down in the legislation is, in particular, this Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Minister Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u210	The question was why. It is necessary to know that this is a very complex question, you are alone from those places and very well, I will say so, you know why such procedures go forward. Not everything depends on the Ministry of Infrastructure, but let me tell you that we have another meeting on this subject tonight. I told you exactly what the procedure was. We are now waiting for the Government's Law Service and then we will give a very quick response in due course for further steps. So, after receiving this opinion, we'll decide what to do. But let me say that here is also an essential element of how degraded areas are to be saved, and we are also looking here and we are very creative. Perhaps then you will be able to find out further that we are very creative in how to obtain financial resources also for reconstruction, rehabilitation of degraded mining areas, and that these are not so simple things. But it has been huge – not now to speak since 2018, but since 2002 it has been taking all of this since it was the first time in Parliament. So, it's a very complex thing, and the mining law is going to do a lot of good, and it's now at public hearing, as we say. By taking further steps in the coming weeks, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your answers. First of all, I will call on the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this topic, which is not only local and only local, we can say, on the issue of the rehabilitation of degraded areas, we can see it somehow as a general also for other regions. I agree with you, Minister Vrtovec, this thing is not easy and it's too long. If you say so since 2002, I think the issue of mining or damage left in the region is significantly longer and wider. Why do I think it makes sense for the National Assembly to have an extensive discussion on this? Because we are talking about degraded areas, which are not just in Zasavje, because we have one cluster in Prekmurje in Celje, and everywhere we find such a surface, a degraded area that makes life impossible for humans, animals, and so on. The areas of which I am specifically talking here, the areas left behind by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik represent a large part of the Municipality of Trbovlje on the one hand, the Municipality of Hrastnik on the other. I'm not just talking about some small industrial hall, but I'm talking about larger surfaces. We all know the geography of Zasav. But the interesting story is that, on the one hand, we have here, we see, some of the burdens that they are, and this RTH leadership also stresses – that we would like to have more speed, more response from the country – on the other hand, we have a need for this in the local environment and also a vision and will and commitment to some non-profit apartments, after the establishment of recreational centres, craft zones and some potential on these degraded surfaces that we could use, and now we have to wait here because someone is holding a leg on the shoulder. The closure of RTH – I call for understanding all present – is not only a question of one mining issue or of one mining law, it is essentially broader. It has its social dimension, its urban dimension, its economic issue, development, transport and so on. In fact, we are talking about the potential for the development of the entire region, which has traditionally been undernourished. The only achievement, if I am a little critical of the end, of the closure or extension of the closure of this mine, so far in the implementation of the law, was that almost all the workers were abandoned, that everything that was now being done was outsourced, and that the director, the former director who kept an eye on the closure, received a substantial better job at SDH. No environmental solutions, no impact monitoring, so I call on the Government to make an effort here at this point and the National Assembly to hold a debate on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! Last autumn, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of ZPIZ-2. In it we have arranged exceptions to the accumulated retirement age in such a way that the accrued pension period before day 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and thus as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. Unfortunately, we did not address those insured who remained in the same manner in voluntary insurance after 31. 12. 2012, therefore, after the adoption of the new pension law ZPIZ-2, which no longer knew the acquisition of this pension period. Many citizens and citizens are turning to us as Members, and I have recently received a letter from the lady who started paying voluntary pension insurance in 2003. It continued with the latter after the adoption of this Act until 2016. As she says, this year she could retire full-time, but the period between 2013 and 2016 is considered only to be the accrued pension period, so this year she could only retire with permanent deductions. This, of course, seems unfair to her, which is also attached to the Director of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. In 2020, he even pointed out that insured persons, such as this concerned lady, who wrote to him and also wrote to me, would be in a significantly worse position. One of the solutions proposed by Mr Papež, which was already on the table in the form of an amendment at the time of the adoption of that amendment, is that the insurance period is also after 1. 1. By 2013, until the first termination of this insurance, therefore, it is considered to be a non-compensated retirement period. Thus, the contributions paid here too are reflected in the amount of the pension. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Do you plan to amend the legislation at the Ministry for the mentioned insured persons who were involved in the purchase after 31 years of retirement? 12. 2012, and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Reich, thank you for this question. Indeed, the most recent amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2H, has regulated, inter alia, the situation of insured persons who have acquired a pensionable period in accordance with the rules applicable prior to the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, i.e. before 2013. Under the previous rules of pension and disability legislation, the right to a non-minor old-age pension could be exercised on the basis of the acquisition of the pension period, which has been amended into the ZPIZ-2 as described. This law has established a state by introducing a non-comprehensible retirement period when it was considered only as a retirement period and not as a non-compensation period for all insured persons with accrued periods under the rules in force before the ZPIZ-2. Despite the fact that the insured were able to retire prematurely, in view of the principle of the expected rights, they were deprived of their early retirement due to the fact that they had not been aware of the fact that the accumulated retirement period would not be taken into account in order to meet the conditions of the old pension. In accordance with the same principle, insured persons who were involved in voluntary insurance until 31 December 2012 were deprived of this anomaly by the amendment of the ZPIZ-2 in 2017. We know the initiatives of those insurers who bought up the period or who were involved in buying up the pension after 31. 12. 2012, as we are also receiving quite a few calls in this regard. Our position is that, unlike the insurance companies who bought up the period before 1. 1. 2013 or were up to 31. 12. 2012 voluntarily included in the compulsory insurance, all insured persons after that date have been or may be aware of the legal provision to take into account the period or period of voluntary inclusion in the compulsory insurance as a period of retirement and not as a period of retirement without redemption. This retirement period, however, is the basis for obtaining an early retirement pension. With regard to taking into account the pension age after 1. 1. At the time of the adoption of STIZ-2, there was considerable media attention, so the insurers had the opportunity to obtain relevant information in this way or at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. I would also like to point out that the pension period for the accumulated period or from the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance after 1. 1. 2013 takes into account, therefore, the increase in the rate of the recognition of the right to a pension. Of course, we do not recognize ourselves in the same way as the retirement period without getting it together. According to the Ministry, we do not currently have a plan to propose legislative changes in the direction that the pension period will be taken into account as a non-compensated retirement period. Once again, we believe that this amendment to PIZ has been published in the Official Journal and that more information has also been provided through different media both before and after the adoption of the law. Therefore, we believe that the insurers have been sufficiently and timely informed about the change in the consideration of the pension age as the accumulated period.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Reich, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for a very correct answer and a vision of this issue. However, I cannot agree with a certain part of your answer. I cannot agree that citizens are expected to read the Official Journal. These, I'll say, legal dogma just can't accept. Such an interpretation of the legislation seems very legal writing to me because none of us read the official papers. Of course we read them, but citizens are not expected, at least I will say, to one normal extent to read or be commissioned to the Official Journal. At the time, I also do not know if it was available in online form or publicly available. This kind of reminds me, I myself was a shareholder of the Maribor Credit Bank, of when we were informed about the decommissioning in the Official Journal. I believe that when it comes to such an important matter as a change in the terms of insurance, the insurance undertaking should inform the insurers. This, of course, is happening in a normal business world. In this case, this obviously did not happen if we have reason to believe that this was published only in the Official Journal and in the media. It's a very difficult story, for example, people paid very high sums of money for military acquisitions, for years of study, that were significantly above payments if they paid their minimum wage. And it's simply that if someone has paid something up, they get something for it, so that somehow these things are known at the rate of the pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Reich, for this addition to the question. I'll start with your last accent. This accrued period, which is now considered to be a retirement period, is known or reimbursed to an individual insured person, in determining the percentage of the dose, may affect a higher percentage of the recognition of the right to a pension, not of course the time-limit for the age of retirement. I understand your point of information. I think we're so flexible – what would you call it? – we really want to go to all groups of citizens and citizens so that we can look again at what information was like, in addition to the legal information in the Official Journal, and still leave this to some dynamic assessment if we find that there is indeed a great injustice. You know us so much, you've met us so far that we don't let this happen. Otherwise, I would say that this pension period is taken into account when determining the percentage and amending the legislation in the direction of collecting the pension period after 1. 1. 2013 considered as a retirement period without totality, so far we are not thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mag. Reich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u222	I have a procedural proposal. I propose that we hold a debate on this very important topic, which addresses the problems and problems of many people, pensioners, in the National Assembly. We can see that the Government is somehow trying to find a solution in one place by increasing the percentage of the dose in these cases, but this is in the opinion of the SAB Group not related to the level of the percentage of the dose, but to the fact that people paid in the system in order not to have deductions in retirement. It's a very important matter, it's a paid contribution, it's a human right to social security. I think that this is a topic that should be reopened in the National Assembly and renegotiated so that somehow those people who have paid these contributions in good faith – many have also spent on it the pensions they received or the termination of the employment relationship due to the termination of the company – so that those people who have actually invested a great deal of property in the pension system can also be heard. To discuss this in the National Assembly, and also to meet these people in search of a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. The next one is mag. Dean Kaloh will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u224	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear Justice Minister Lilliana Kozlovich! We have the honour to say that we are opening the first round of issues in the field of justice. In recent months in Slovenia we have witnessed a tremendous increase in intolerance, hate speech, the promotion of hatred, threats, intimidation in various forms, even explicit threats with death and explicit and implicit calls for the death of individuals. This certainly, we agree, constitutes crimes under Article 135 of the Penal Code and also under Article 297 of the Penal Code. Such and other threats are faced both by holders of exposed political functions, to be the President of the Government, ministers, coalition and opposition MPs, as well as by individuals exposed in the field of health, it is said in the fight against the covida-19 epidemic. That these things have really escalated across all borders, to a very frightening extent I call it, is also the testimony of Prime Minister Janez Janša, who recently told Novo24TV that he receives 100 death threats on his own through social networks. These threats have also been quite a bit in the past period, as I said, in the case of exposed doctors, two have highlighted themselves, Mr Aleš Rozman and Bojana Beović, that they have been repeatedly threatened with death. In certain cases, criminals have already initiated procedures, of course, predictive procedures. These events, too, when we looked at them through the media, the table, red-colored polytheists who were supposed to symbolize blood, in front of the Ministry of Culture, cycling protests with explicit calls to death, dolls were stoned here in front of our house of democracy, crying with concrete names of Members and so on. I say that we should definitely not get used to these rejection threats as a society. More, I say, we must condemn them again and again, and the authorities and the state prosecutors must finally begin to prosecute these perpetrators. Of course, we all agree that prosecutors, of course, are independent, independent of their work, but as these threats grow, we can still ask whether the prosecutors are doing their work properly, professionally and in accordance with the law. That is why, Madam Minister, I have the following questions for you: How do you monitor these extraordinary, dangerous social threats with death at the Ministry of Justice? Are you aware that in the State Prosecutor's Office, you would have initiated an appropriate supervisory mechanism on your own, especially the Institute of Official Oversight, which is within the domain of the Prosecutor's Office? Perhaps you yourself at the Justice Department have ordered some judicial supervision of the District Attorney's Offices on this issue. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you're running out of time, and you're out of time, so I interrupted you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u226	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Commissioner, thank you for being able to answer this question as well. The problem you are addressing is extremely pressing in both the Republic of Slovenia and abroad. Unfortunately, Europe is also facing an increase in violence, as well as an increase in hate speech in a wide variety of forms, so this is one of the priorities we have in the Presidency of both the Ministry of Justice and the European Union itself, and certain legislative acts are being prepared in this area. Yes, growth is extremely large, as they say and show the statistics themselves. If we look at only the number of threats, the criminal charges received by the prosecution amount to 2 000 625 in 2020, i.e. a total of 653 perpetrators have been prosecuted and convicted together, while 327 are said to have been jointly, either suspended or rejected. So, you're already locked up in court. Also, the number of other forms of violence against officials entrusted to officials has increased dramatically, but it would not be about details, but perhaps about an enemy speech. It's 297. There was also an increase in the number of criminal charges, 19 of which were brought in indictments, and six of which were also prosecuted in court. Here we need to know that we have criminal law, in a special code we have a series of provisions that determine, depending on the degree of threat that has been made, or the degree of danger, but we also have a marked offence, I am talking mainly about hostile speech. It is necessary to separate when it comes to – because if it is not a serious threat or if it is not elements of a crime, it is necessary to separate situations when it comes to inappropriate speech, that is, when it comes primarily to insults, an immoral word, in which case, of course, it is not criminal and is not subject to sanctions. It is unacceptable, however, that a speech that is also defined in criminal law, but is mainly pursued by a private action, but these worst forms are defined both in Europe and Slovenia in a way that essentially protects vulnerable groups. The European Court of Justice has also said that politicians are allowed to have a higher level of criticism than that of other citizens of both Slovenia and Europe. If you ask me about the State Prosecutor's Office, they are organised within their policy of prosecution and they also know what the priorities are. One of the priorities is hate speech. In this case, they also have a special working group appointed to examine and deliver opinions in all border situations in order to direct the police, whether it is a crime or an offence. In particular, they monitor this in this area and may sometimes be expected not to react, but if we look, for example, at the launching and filing of an indictment, there are a number of cases rejected or rejected in the court itself. We can say that, even in border situations, they anticipate and prefer to file, rather than not to file, an indictment, which may not be right. It is always necessary to find one legal measure by which you can explain and argue your decisions. If you ask me about controls; yes, official supervision is prescribed, control of state prosecutorial law as well as judicial supervision is prescribed. Thus, within the framework of official controls, the State Prosecutor’s Office states that they fail in time and also periodically, as provided for in the Public Prosecutor’s Act, so that these controls are much less effective. These controls are good, because you can find out what's wrong. When we addressed only the number of discards from professional controls in Parliament, we could see that there are certain shortcomings in the case of professional errors; and we have acted accordingly. I will continue to answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Kaloh, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u228	Chairman, thank you very much. Of course I'll take those two more minutes. When you've served with statistics, on the other hand, I'm giving you a statistical counter in order to provide you with information that 18 cases of threats were detected last year by government representatives and government-related individuals. Police have successfully identified the perpetrator in ten cases. As far as I am aware, the proposals made by the victims for the prosecution themselves have also been followed, so I hope that the prosecutors will do their job properly here. I agree with this part when you say that the degree of seriousness of the threat is the one that somehow defines the activity of the prosecutors. However, here I appeal particularly to this issue of the principle of equality, that there may not be any discriminatory treatment with these government representatives. We all know the case where one gentleman – perhaps he did have a problem, but in any case – threatened the then President of the Government with Mr Pahor, the prosecutors handled matters very quickly and then the gentleman received a salary, I think, 11 years in prison. In the case of the current Prime Minister, however, we all somehow observe that there have been several death threats, and somehow all things stand. I'm really appealing to the same prosecution. However, I am interested then; you have answered about the official supervision of the prosecutions themselves, your judicial supervision that something will be done in this area. Perhaps also such a general question, Madam Minister, to conclude: Are you thinking of issuing instructions, training of prosecutors and judges specifically in these two areas of crime, threats and public promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance, so that they can yet be taught little in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with you that equality must be ensured before the law, even within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office. I'll continue where I've finished before. Official supervision is carried out by the Attorney General's Office, and they also exercise control over the State Prosecutor's Office. Judicial supervision is enshrined in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, but has not yet been carried out. This is prescribed, as prescribed in the Law on Courts, so that the Minister of Justice and the Ministry has jurisdiction, of course, very limited, and must not interfere with the state prosecutors in their decision-making of specific matters, including with the judges. But he also has a duty to the Minister to carry out these controls. It is important to do this, we have a special judicial review service organised and we regularly carry out this. I can show you how many different measures have been taken; the required clarifications and the measures taken for the courts. However, this service is managed by a judge who is assigned to the Ministry of Justice to ensure this independence and not to interfere directly with the branch of government itself, so that there is no temptation at all. It is similar and we are thinking at the Ministry of Justice, and in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office itself, we have slightly upgraded the provisions that are now in coalition coordination; and I think it makes sense, as for the court, to organise for the state's prosecutions, and to do so. However, we have also established a somewhat stricter level of official supervision and supervision of the State Prosecutor's Office, which has previously been established for at least three years in each district; we now define it more frequently. However, it is true that state prosecutors say that they are not enough to do all of this, as is done by the state's attorneys. As far as training is concerned, we have a special organisational unit, this is the Centre for Education in Justice. And let me say that right now, this week, we have special training on the subject of hate speech, where we are going through practical cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kaloh, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u232	President, thank you for the final word. Thank you. I thank the Minister again for all the answers to my questions. I think that we agree here that the topic is extremely important for the wider social climate in our country, and I will take advantage of the business possibility of Article 246, paragraph 2, to have a wider debate in the National Assembly and to see where we are in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now it's Mr. Nick Prebil's turn. He will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik, who is absent, and I also ask the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Fate or, better, the future of the single pay system is what I am interested in today, in general, given the inconsistencies or conflicting facts given on the one hand by Minister Koritnik and on the other hand by Prime Minister Janša. At a March session last year, Boštjan Koritnik, then a candidate for a minister, said that each exit of each group would mean a breakdown of the pay system if, of course, we did not get a broad consensus, both political and consensus of all involved. And I actually got the same answer in May when I asked in a written parliamentary question about the aspirations of the police union after the exit. And again, he replied the same, so that this would mean a breakdown of the system; and of course, further clarifications that the exit itself does not mean a higher allowance for wages, of course, with the Minister committed himself to a greater variable award. In summary, the message was the same. Well, he's got a completely different agenda, and he's got a different agenda for the Prime Minister. Last September, in this Chamber, when he refused to hear questions about the lack of health care, with the exception of those related to covid-19, he announced the near start of negotiations to identify service parts of the public sector from the administrative part of the payroll system. And a similar message followed two weeks ago at the time of the announcement of police salaries, of course on Twitter. He announced that the operative part of the police, i.e. the non-scribes, would be excluded from the single payroll system. And my questions to the Minister are quite simple. I would ask that later, when I say what kind of answer I want, I also refrain from explaining some theories. I would like to ask you: Who in our country is actually the Minister of Public Administration? Does the minister's opinion mean anything else? In view of the conflicting information, I would somehow believe that Boštjan Koritnik is just a formal minister and an informal prime minister. I also want to know: Does the Minister agree with the Government President's announcement on the exemption of health care and police and perhaps any other professions, such as soldiers, from a single payroll system, even though the consensus he mentioned as a condition would not? Does he remain faithful to his opinion that in the absence of consensus, the pay system will fail? What are the benefits of exempting health care from operational work and exempting the operational part of the police from the single pay system? So what are those benefits? Minister, do you really think that it is possible to exempt the police, health and possibly the military from the single pay system without causing the stampede of other professions in the public sector? Since there is no minister, I ask a comprehensive and clear written answer. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Igor Peček will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! Last October, the government objected to the proposal of the Digital Services Tax Law on the ground that we should wait for the European Union to come up with a global solution that will regulate the issue of taxation of the digital economy around the world in the same way. Now we can see that the coordination of the digital tax at OECD level appears to have fallen into the water. That's why today, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Are we now going to be one of those countries in Slovenia that will take a serious approach to the introduction of a digital tax, such as Spain, where the digital and financial services tax started on 16 January this year and the first revenues are due to start running into the Spanish state treasury as early as March or April this year? Or will a country that, like many times before, wait for Brussels or other institutions, which is why it is being drained by small sums of money? The fact is that Slovenia is one of the countries that are missing an important opportunity to include a digital tax among its new own resources, despite the fact that the Slovenian Prime Minister made him the most likely potential source of own resources for the European Union last July. Dear Minister, are you involved in activities at the Ministry to introduce a digital tax as soon as possible? If so, when can we expect a bill in the National Assembly? But if you're not preparing everything you need to introduce a digital tax, I'm wondering why not? Do you therefore believe that the assessment of the Prime Minister of last July's government was premature? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Shircelj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! I must, of course, deny some of your claims before you ask the question. Firstly, it is not about waiting for the European Union to wait, but rather about the fact that this is supposed to be the European Union's tax, which should be the source of the European Commission's tax, since the European Commission has for the first time provided Member States with reimbursement and non-refundable money; and therefore, of course, it needs an additional resource in the long term. And one of these sources can also be a tax on digital services. Secondly, you said that coordination with the OECD fell into the water. I don't think that's true. This is because the OECD announced a final solution to the digital tax in June 2021 or mid-2021. Here, of course, I can say that the OECD has not yet presented all the solutions. For the month of March 2021, it announced the issue of communication on the subject of corporate taxation in the 21st century, in which the content of this tax is expected. Which means, in other words, that your claims that the OECD's coordination has fallen into the water do not, according to my information, hold. However, in the OECD countries, this is a matter related to this tax. If you want to make it a little simpler, it's where the company that provides these digital services is based. Of course, we can imagine that this seat is physically, physically, in some country; but this tax is not necessarily for this seat to be physically defined. Therefore, it can also be determined in a different way, since this can also be in connection with digitisation and so on, this seat is located elsewhere. However, this is a matter of particular concern, and our view is that these services must be taxed where they actually arise. This is about these things in the OECD area. If it is not possible to precisely identify the physical seat, then, of course, it is also a matter of redistribution of these revenues between Member States and the establishment of a minimum tax. This is what the OECD should determine or propose. What concerns Slovenia and what is really important here is that it is not true that the European Union does not talk about it. For example, in September 2020, ECOFIN also spoke to finance ministers about this tax and, of course, other sources that are important for the financing of the European Commission. Here is also the question that this common tax should be mentioned in the July 2020 European Council conclusions as a potential future new own resource of the European Union on the basis of the so-called digital levy legislation. The proposal will be prepared in the middle of 2021. It is also expected to be adopted in 2021, but it is not envisaged to enter into force in order to apply in this year, this will later, probably in 2022, 2023, also in 2024.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Peček, would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, this solution at OECD level has been preparing for some time. We know what the problem is. I'm sure you know exactly what the problem is. What you have said is true, but the fact is that a number of countries within the European Union, not just Spain, have already introduced this form of digital tax. We agree that the Digital Economy's single tax regime is likely to prevent market fragmentation within the European Union, as well as restrictions or distortions, if I may say so, of competition that is desirable in any market. But because of the danger, the very inability to agree that countries should first regulate the area themselves, because the traffic or profits generated in the place where the service is provided are large. Let me say that on Facebook, more than 2 billion people apply every day. Airbnb somehow counts 2 million visitors a day. And from that point of view, I think it's some kind of missed opportunity. And I'm asking you: If you could make an assessment or projection at the Ministry of Finance, what would be the impact of the introduction of a digital tax on inflows into our budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much for complementing the question. How widespread this tax is in Europe and how widespread it is, it is a matter of how much we see Europe and how many countries we think it belongs to those countries that indicate that this tax is widely accepted. In addition to Spain, which you mentioned, which is supposed to introduce this tax, France and Italy are here. Italy will start collecting it in March 2021, similar to France. Here is Austria, which introduced the digital advertising tax and its typical services, Hungary also has a long time in force the advertising tax law, which also covers digital advertisements, but has temporarily frozen it. The Czech Republic has this law in the parliamentary procedure, Belgium has announced the introduction of the tax on 1 January 2023. Here I have counted seven countries from all the countries of the European Union, because, in other words, I wish to say that this tax has not been widely applied so far. The reasons are different. Here I can agree with you that some countries are more prone to taxation, other countries are not inclined to such taxation for various reasons. As far as the so-called European tax is concerned, the proposal is expected to be prepared in June 2021. The levy was to be imposed either on 1 January 2023 or on 1 January 2024. From this perspective, the European Commission has also published 14. 1. 2021 The initiative to introduce and respond to the digital levy takes up to 12. 4. 2021. From this point of view, when we are talking about the European tax and the tax to be financed by the European Commission or all of this European money that we are getting, then here I have given you a timeline. Within this timeframe, Slovenia will also introduce tax. But I have to tell you, we're not that far off because we don't know what the set of rates is going to be. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. The next is Mr Jožef Lenart, who will raise the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear guests ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, nice greeting! Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Jože Podgoršek, my question is on the subject of the request of Slovenian farmers and the open letter to the Government, in which farmers are asked to enable them to sell or facilitate the sale of produced Slovenian crops, farm animals and so on, in short, of all agricultural products from which food products are produced As shown in the articles in the Štajerska Week and in the Kmetčki Week, farmers have sent a request or letter to the Ministry to support Slovenian farmers. The president of the farmers' union, Medved, in one of the articles, said that in recent times during the coronation, the Ministry had been expecting measures to be taken to sell as much Slovenian food as possible, thus giving minimum priority to domestic production. These were also the predictions made by the former Minister of Agriculture concerning self-care, some promotion activities, but forecasts on what farmers say have not been realized. Large merchants and butchers have full shelves of foreign products, sometimes of questionable quality; our products, for example our pork, which is more quality than imported, do not go to Slovenian shelves and butchers. Therefore, the loaves remain full, even the purchase prices are considered by the farmers' union to be devastating for some time. Thus, only larger farmers, breeders, or farmers can survive. They fear that if this goes on, they will not be able to survive from their work and there will be more closed barns and resulting unprocessed agricultural areas. Dear Minister, I am aware that due to the epidemic in Slovenia, food consumption has also fallen. Anyway, I'm curious: What activities have been carried out at the Ministry in relation to the requirements of the farmers' union? What will we do in the future to make it easier for Slovenian food producers to sell their products?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for the question which is extremely on the ground at this time when the coronation has touched all sectors, i.e. the agricultural one. The letter and the public letter to the Government is also known to all of us as well as the initiatives set out in this letter. Let me mention, however, that the sale of food is possible all the time. In stores, it is practically possible to sell more than just food products, as well as in markets, from Saturday onwards also in mobile markets, even for a shorter period of time, although it was prohibited in this part, it is possible to sell food at home, via mail. Through all these market routes, food sales are possible. Therefore, we believe that this letter does not present a purely real situation when it speaks of the fact that the sale of food of Slovenian origin is not possible; but the sale takes place thanks to God and the inhabitants of Slovenia can be supplied with food products at any time. However, the sector is not as we would like, so in these days, weeks, months, even since I am a minister, we have been carrying out a number of activities to help sectors. Let me mention that at the initiative, including the farmers' union, we are also establishing a system of traceability or mass balance. By the end of January, 29 January, we will also have a presentation of this system on the consultative body, i.e. in the agriculture world. Let me mention that it must be very clear that our administration for safe food very strictly monitors the effectiveness of control over origin, over the indication of origin of goods, because this is in the domain of our administration for safe food. Also in December, she did this control, namely, at the butchery and also at the butchery of the shopping malls. If we compare this year's surveillance with 2015's, we can find that these errors are significantly lower in this year's indication of origin. If we were still at the 68% share of the unconformed meat loins in 2015, we are now at 27%, but we can also see that, for example, misleading designations of origin would be only 10% of all these identified meatloafs, and we are talking about the wrong way of labelling, the wrong language. There are many of these differences, not just counterfeiting or falsifying of origin. The union also reminds us of the problem of banning deception, advertising with the so-called retroromatic way of working on farms. Let me mention that, in this case, we believe that it would be good for such advertising to be judged at the Advertising Court in any event. This surveillance of advertising goes beyond the control of our department, we do not exercise this control over the implementation of the promotion of food products. I also believe that, in order to assist in the sale of food products, we are also looking for some solutions in the amendment of the Agriculture Act, which is currently being prepared very intensively with all stakeholders. Among other things, that we will be open in public institutions, public food establishments, when of course all of them are open – some of them are, but schools and kindergartens are not at this time, some of them will be opened tomorrow – that we will also, in this part of the Green Public Procurement Regulation, talking about quality schemes, about organic food, entrust agricultural inspection to control, or actually acquire public institutions as much as we should in accordance with the Green Public Procurement Regulation. Let me mention that the Ministry of Public Administration is also preparing an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which is in their domain. In this amendment to the Public Procurement Act, inter alia, there will be a departure from those institutions where there is no need to publish a public tender on the European portal. Smaller public institutions are expected to move away from the public procurement system following the current proposal, and smaller public institutions are expected to buy beyond the public procurement system after this proposal. We are also providing assistance to these sectors through anti-Korona packages, compensation for the loss of income to bovines, pigs, winemakers, wine growers, complementary activities; in order to mitigate in at least one part the crisis that has arisen in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thanks again. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these answers as well. I'm also pleasantly surprised. I see that some changes are being done, and then some changes bring news, that some amendments to the laws, the agricultural law, the traceability system. Okay. But I will say anyway, I come from a predominantly agricultural area and of course I am proud of our successful farms in Ptujsko Polje and in Slovenian Gorica. However, somehow I also have to agree with these farmers, farmers, farmers who have been disappointed in the past, because they think, and somehow I also agree with them that we Slovenians are sometimes too few, what should I say, too little, to try too little to have more Slovenian products in stores. In this letter they refer to the unfair practice of traders. I am not saying that this is all the worst, but to compare, if we know that, for example, our southern neighbours, who are also in the European Union, do have some more of their products from their country on shelves. And when Mercator was taken over, the difference was immediately observed that they were selling more of their products. And maybe they're trying, maybe they're not so strict about what's expected in the European Union. I believe that in the future we will not be, as in the past, a weaker side in the game with the great members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I also thank you for complementing the issue. In our ministry, we can do a lot of things for this situation or for the agricultural sector, which I have already said in the introduction. In accordance with the Promotion Act, we will also promote the selected quality as well as generic promotion for Slovenian products. In autumn 2020, the sector's promotion for fruit was a sectoral promotion; this year we will have a sectoral promotion for meat, milk and, at the same time, generic promotion for organic food and all quality schemes under the Selected Quality Scheme. I also believe that we have a relatively good system or a well-managed system, as regards illicit practices or unfair practices in the food supply chain. As already in the 2018 Agriculture Act, taxonomically stated illegal conduct. We also have the Ombudsman in the food supply chain in Slovenia. You may know that I was also the first guardian of the food supply chain in Slovenia, so these unfair practices, illegal practices are very familiar and also a way to save them. And one part of that is in the present marriage. And our ministry pays two people at the competition agency only for the food supply chain, in accordance with an agreement with the Ministry of Economy, which is the competent Ministry of the Competition Agency. That is why I believe that in this work we could also use these institutions and this legal basis that we have. But we have a problem on the other side. The Agriculture Act also lays down the obligation of the contractual relationship and also lays down mandatory components of contracts, where the indicative quantity and indicative price are also mandatory components of contracts. And if our producers don't have these contracts, then we don't have any basis to do anything in accordance with the Agriculture Act. So we can't report it because if there's no contract, you can't break it. If the contracts were, and for those shareholders who have these contracts, we find that virtually even at the time of the greatest crisis, contractual relations are being fulfilled. We have no major problems, it is true that the price fluctuates, in price, we help with state aid while animals, crops from farms are being sold. We can do all of this. And now we will also introduce a European directive on agriculture into Slovenia's legal order, which provides for additional illegal practices and also a reduction in payment deadlines. However, neither in the Ministry nor in the Government can we determine prices, cut prices in the food supply chain, and we cannot limit any quantities in the free movement of goods when it comes to Slovenian shelves. Here, however, we propose – and we will also work through the Rural Development Programme – all measures to promote the integration and participation of farms, which will also increase their negotiating points.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The following will be Ambassador Tina Heferle, who will question the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to all, Madam Secretary, especially you! The question would start like this. We have recently witnessed or observed your intervention to as many as three courts, to the District Court in Ljubljana, to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, where you asked or directly requested, in your letter, that there should be a disciplinary procedure against a judge who is publicly, on social networks, on the individual actions of the President of the Government. My question does not refer to this substantive position of the conduct of this judge, but it refers to the fact that you sent a letter or this letter to the three courts where you are a minister, i.e. the representative of the executive branch of the authority, ordering or requiring the initiation of the disciplinary procedure or expressing a deep expectation that this procedure will be initiated. This, in my view, constitutes a serious intervention in the independence of the judiciary or in the regulation and functioning of the courts and individual judges. I believe that, as a competent minister and also as a lawyer, you know that it is only the Presidents of the courts or the judiciary alone who are competent to initiate disciplinary proceedings before a court or against certain judges, and not the Minister of Justice. And with all due respect, you do not have the right to interfere with the position where you are, to interfere with the work or organization of the functioning of the courts as a separate branch of authority, that is, the judicial branch of authority. As I said before, I don't want to comment on the content of this judge's opinion, because it's not our job, not yours or mine. But I want to know: How do you justify this intervention, which has been described by many as a serious intervention in the independence and independence of the judiciary by the executive branch of power? How do you justify your conduct?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u254	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear Member! I'll start like this. The function of the judiciary shall be exercised on behalf of the people. This is enshrined in the Constitution and the Law on Judicial Service explicitly states how a judge must behave. And he says that he must always act in such a way as to protect the impartiality and independence of the trial, the judicial reputation and the independence of the judiciary. And in article 81 of the same law, this is defined as a disciplinary violation if someone acts contrary to it. The fact is that freedom of speech in the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed and is very limited for certain categories and also for judges. In the event of an infringement, it is possible to initiate proceedings before the Ethics and Integrity Committee or disciplinary procedure. Any legal or natural person may also take the initiative before the Commission, whereas in the case of disciplinary proceedings you misquote that the Minister is not competent. The Minister shall expressly have this power and also the duty, as set out in the Law on the Council of Justice. It is true, however, that before that, all those mentioned by you are listed and the Minister, as representative of the executive branch, is the last mentioned. Such conduct or conduct of judges is generally prescribed by our legislation and demands; we do know external independence, which means that no one should interfere with the judge, but we also know the internal independence that judges must maintain and create by their conduct and conduct. And that's in the Judicial Service Act. Such principle and the conduct of judges is also expected in accordance with the Universal Court Charter adopted by the International Judicial Association, which states that the judge is given the right to freedom of expression, but at the same time commands that judges “should exercise restraint in exercising this right and always act in a manner that preserves both the dignity of their function and the impartiality and independence of the judiciary.” The orders from the judge require that he maintain his impartial appearance with restraint both in private and in public life. And, of course, this is also important in terms of public confidence in the judiciary. In this particular case, which you are referring to, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister acted in accordance with the Judicial Council Act, including in accordance with the recommendations of the Universal Judicial Charter, which states that the Justice Minister is the last in line to initiate proceedings. Of course, he does not judge the actions themselves, but he also owes his actions to the Minister of Justice — and this is also his duty — to ensure the integrity of the courts and of the judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, in most of your response, you spoke about how a judge should behave. And I asked you: How do you assess your conduct regarding the letter you sent to all three courts? It is true that the law as an extreme, extremely extreme possibility allows you to intervene in a disciplinary procedure, but I repeat, this is the extreme possibility if we both know that usually disciplinary procedures are initiated by the employer or the boss, if I make it very simple. Since you are not the boss of this social network judge, I would expect you to leave this option to her employers or her bosses. And when you mention how a judge must behave to ensure some integrity of his function, I fully agree with you; but I would expect the same momentum on your part when it comes to your responsibility that some of the functions you have as Minister are performing very consistently. I mean, in this case, the appointment of prosecutors, and here I want to give just this comparison of what kind of motivation you have shown when it comes to defending the President of the Government, when it comes to attacking so much the freedom of expression of a judge who, of course, opposes the current authority. And your exile when there are several months, six months, or more, the prosecutors are not appointed, even though the proceedings are closed before the Ministry; and more than five cities in the prosecution are not completed, or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you. Sometimes it is a pity for the convinced to convince, but nevertheless, the right and duty of the Minister of Justice is to carry out what is stated in the law. Mrs Heferle, these are the interventions and actions of the ministers, which we must and also carry out. In this cluster, which I have here, there are quite a few proposals for the introduction of disciplinary procedures that have been put in place directly by ministers. In this particular case, I reiterate, I acted in the spirit of the law and obtained information from the courts. They are the first to decide whether or not to initiate the procedure. However, the fact is that there is no doubt that there is a greater possibility of legal remedies in the disciplinary procedure if someone proves that the proceedings have been initiated by mistake or by mistake. Once again, I stress, not to explain that the duty of the Minister is to abuse and pressure on the judiciary, because it is his duty. It must ensure and ensure the integrity of the courts and of the judges themselves. And that's what ministers have done a number of times in the time of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u260	Thank you very much. As the Minister and I do not somehow get caught here, of course, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this issue, the political pressure on the judiciary, including the general debate. I'll explain briefly why. Because we have before us a case where a judge has been disciplined on the initiative of the Minister for public objection to the President of the Government or to the political regime we have. And I believe that the disciplinary proceedings that you have discussed that the Ministry of Justice had initiated in the past were not based on such a basis, there was no political omen; it was that a judge did not carry out his work professionally, did not carry out his work honestly, conscientiously; or that as a judge he did not care about the reputation of the judicial profession or the impartiality and independence of the judicial profession. However, it is essential whether a disciplinary procedure is instituted because the judge does not carry out what I have just listed, as the law tells him; or whether a disciplinary procedure against a judge is introduced because he publicly expresses his opinion, his disagreement with the current political option. And from you, Madam Minister, coming from the SMC, I would expect, according to your announcements at the time of entry into this government, that you would be a defender of democracy, you would expect that you would not receive the same or the same error as the Prime Minister did when he wrote to the Attorney General. We have witnessed a perfectly identical case concerning the impact on the judiciary from the point of view of the administration of the courts in your case. For this reason, I think that the general debate on this subject would be very welcome. I therefore propose that the National Assembly hold this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ms Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Helena Jaklitsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! More than three months have passed since the 100th anniversary of Koroška plebiscite, when the Croat Slovenians and other recognised minorities in Austria, totaling six, received a promise from the Federal Government of Chancellor Sebastian Kurz to double their financial support from €4 million to €7.9 million. Not one third of the funds have been received since the promised increase. A minority newsweek from Celovac doesn't even know how he's gonna survive. The news is printed on 20 pages in the 2 000 copies. The cost of printing is high, many articles cannot be published because of the limited size of the newspaper, thinking about an online edition that would be more accessible to younger generations. Most of the support for this week since 2003 has come from Slovenia, amounting to €180,000 per year. In Austria, however, the news received only about 20,000 euros a year from the media promotion fund. The authorities claim that the news would need at least 500 000 euros a year. The week employs two editors who are also journalists and also have 10 part-time employees, and more employees have even had to be fired, and the rented premises of the editors are in extremely poor condition. While the Austrian government boasts that it has doubled support for minorities, it does not, in fact, hold this, because the increase to €7.9 million is divided into four areas, of which only €700,000 is actually for media support. In the meantime, it was initially said that they would support one medium for every minority, and then that they would share only two major minority media, these are news for the Croats and Croats. None of this has been confirmed by the government and there is no invitation to tender. In addition to €700,000 for the media, a raise is expected for other areas of minority activity, namely 2.2 million for specific minority projects. The call is due to reach mid-February, but it is not clear here what will be the guidelines, who can run and how the money will be distributed. It is clear that this is not an automatic doubling of funds, but that most of the money is devoted to undefined projects for which the Austrian Government reserves the right to allocate funds. Austria has reserved EUR 700,000 for minority media, the criteria for the distribution of money from the Federal Chancellor's Office are not known, nor is the call for money for the media supply of minorities in Austria. That's why I want to know: When will Slovenian minority media receive decent support from Austria? Nor do the criteria for money from the remaining three areas or funds of a minority organisation know; it is not clear how, when. How You Helped the House’s Cousins as Minister in this Inexplicable Situation [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u264	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honour, Mrs Violeta Tomić, thank you very much for your question. I am happy when the area of our foreigners or Slovenians around the world is located in an auditorium such as the National Assembly, so thank you very much for your question. You are asking about funding, particularly with emphasis on News as a medium, which in the past has been faced with very poor financial support by Austria, which in this part has not fulfilled its commitment under the Austrian State Treaty. However, this has always, every year again, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, or the Republic of Slovenia with financial support, allowed the media to emerge smoothly. I was very pleased to hear an interview with all the presidents of all three ORF umbrella organisations at the end of last year, which took place in 2020. Among other things, the president of one of the umbrella organisations has told a heartwarming news that in 2020 the news will end for the first year without loss, which is certainly a good journey for the next period, for the following years. Certainly, as you yourself said, at the centenary of Koroška plebiscite and meeting at the highest level, it was also agreed that minorities would receive additional, doubling resources. The minority also expects an increase in funds from Austria this year in view of the government's October decision on this increase. And also by increasing media support funds, as you yourself said, it is about €700,000. The amount of funds you have already warned yourself is unclear. The actual invitation to tender shall be issued on 28 February. Slovenia and, of course, again and again in the contacts I have with the Federal Minister responsible for minority affairs, and also in the relationship with the umbrella organisations and representatives of our relatives in exchange, I point out this area of financing as one of the important themes or very important topics, because financial support allows you to carry out the activities necessary for the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority. I believe that there is no reason at this time for us to question Austria's decision or promise to financially support the minority, as she has promised. Even when I talked to representatives who would decide on these matters, they assured me that the relationship between how the funds should be distributed remained as it had been in the past in relation to six minorities. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u266	Dear Minister, I do not agree with you, because the grants of Slovenia to minorities in Austria remain at nominal level more than 25 years ago, and only one third of last year's promises of doubling funds remain. And that's why I want to know: What will you do for our minority? How will your ministry help ensure that the promise of increased support is not just on paper? And in this House we have talked a lot about the Koroan minority, in the previous term we have even advocated a notification of the Austrian State Treaty, which would solve many of these problems. During the centenary of Koroška plebiscite, the Austrian side also admitted that there was nothing to celebrate, since it was 100 years of oppression and disintegration. And the invitation. So once again, I ask you: How will your ministry provide better conditions for the functioning of Slovenian minority organisations and media in Austria? And minorities are not always interested in new excuses, but they want to make a request as soon as possible and find out what the conditions for application are, very specifically. And they should be helped by their home country, specifically – your ministry. In the Cultural Society, Article 7 for Styrian Slovenes in Austria received €60,000 of annual support from the Federal Chancellor's Office for the past 25 years, almost €94 000 from Slovenia and the State of Styria contributed 55. Last November, the company applied for an invitation to tender with the Office of the Federal Chancellor for the classical support of minorities. That's why I want to know: How will the home country ensure that the support is actually duplicated and that it does not remain only in nice words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u268	Your Honor, thank you for complementing the question. When I monitor the very active behaviour of the minority, I actually do a lot of talking on my own; and we also have to recognise this autonomy and minority as an independent entity in relation to the Republic of Austria. It also seems very important to me that, in the light of this, a minority also receives the status of that interlocutor, which also needs to be taken into account by the federal level, when planning its funding and when planning the area of legislation related to minorities, particularly with regard to the Slovenian minority in Koroška and Štajersko. With regard to the very area of funding, as I have said before, I do not yet see the fear that Austria would not make these promises, which it has made so clearly and at the highest level, that minority funds will actually double, which it has already indicated in some of the calls it has issued and whose deadline is also due to expire on 28 February. There is also a plebiscite gift of €4 million, which we must not forget, which Austria also intends or will give to the Slovenian minority. What can we as the Bureau do here? The first thing is to admit to the minority that you can and must choose your own sovereign rights; absolutely with the support of the Republic of Slovenia, which has shown very well in the past. Even last year, our activities were very intense, even at the 100th anniversary of Koroška plebiscite, as you yourself pointed out, it was not an anniversary that we could celebrate, but an anniversary that reminds us of all the injustices that were done by our minority in Koroška and Styria. Our office also this year, when preparing an invitation to finance Slovenians in substitution, as well as all the years, has also financially supported projects and programmes implemented by a minority, so that in this part this is our financial support. Of course, as you have already mentioned, in all the talks that we will have this year not only with federal representatives, not only with the country representatives, but also with our own, if I may say so, representative of the Slovenian minority or Member of the Greens Olga Voglauer, who comes from the ranks of the Korean Slovenes and is extremely intense and genuinely committed to all the commitments made by Austria and also by the coalition being fulfilled. At all levels, we will also review, control, if I may say that these promises will also be fulfilled. I think that the Slovenian minority in Koroška and also in Styria deserves this for 100 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have a proposal for a procedural proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate on this, because we both agreed on the 100th anniversary of plebiscite about 3 months ago to notify the Austrian State Treaty as the best solution. And this would also be the best recognition for the Slovenian minority at the 100th anniversary. We know that on this occasion we had an exhibition in the lobby of the National Assembly that documented all the suffering of the Korean Slovenians. We know that the students had demonstrations in Vienna, they wanted to warn the mother country that they wanted more of it and that they wanted to help, because standing and staying in a foreign, German-speaking country as a Slovenian was always extremely difficult for them. Saying that the invitation to tender will come out by mid-February and that there is no concern is quite sad, for this is over a good two-week period. It is not known what will be the guidelines for this call for funds. It's still not clear who can run, who can share the money, how it's gonna be. He's a total stranger, and the government hasn't confirmed anything. It was said that all of this would be for the Croat Slovenes first, and then that this would cover all the Austrian minorities, that the tender would be EUR 300,000 for intercultural projects, which so far amounted to 100,000 and is intended only for Koroška, which is now intended to cover all Austrian minorities. In short, there are many unknowns and very few answers. And that is why I really think we should have a debate about this, because the Slovenian minority in Koroška has said clearly and loudly at the 100th anniversary that it expects our help. We all agreed, the members of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, the President of the Commission, and also you, that it is the time of the 100th anniversary of their struggle to actually get in their way. And I also see that we all agreed on the notification; and unfortunately it hasn't moved anywhere since. Every time it's a holiday, we hear a lot of promises and a lot of nice-sounding words, and then, unfortunately, it all sinks into oblivion. I therefore expect the National Assembly to hold this debate at its next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Andre Zabrett will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Brickler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! The question would start like this. The economy is in an ever-increasing and severe crisis due to the Coronavirus epidemic. For this reason, you are also preparing intervention legislation at your Ministry, the so-called PKPs, which are intended to help citizens and citizens and the economy. So far we have had 7 PKPs, today we have heard that the government has adopted 8th, so we are looking forward to it in the National Assembly. The very number of laws and the speed of adoption would not be lost in words, especially at times I feel that it is a matter of quantity and not quality. We know what this intervention legislation should contain, but everything was too much, as it was said, of the underdogs in all these PKPs. In the LMŠ, you are reminded from the outset that the government must help the economy in an appropriate and resourceful manner, especially in a way that allows beneficiaries to come in in an uncomplicated and easy way to get help immediately. In practice, there are too many cases when we see that people cannot get help or come too late. Instead of proposing such measures as would enable rapid aid to be obtained, unfortunately in December you have even given serious thought to freezing the minimum wage. While you have not included this in the CAP7 and have included an amendment to the Labour Relations Act and the Public Servants Act, you have proposed a measure of so-called compulsory retirement. And here's my question. This measure went beyond the union, without a wider debate, through some intervention legislation. Let us not forget that the Labour Relations Act is also somehow referred to as a small labour constitution and that this change is always adopted in social dialogue. But obviously not with you. Let me stress here that I do not want to determine whether this measure is okay or not. As the main reason for the adoption of this permanent amendment of legislation, the Labour Relations Act, you argued that this measure would help to employ young people. And I want to know: What studies or analyses can you say? I don't know any tests to confirm that, so... [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Then we'll add some more. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u274	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Madam Ambassador Zabret, thank you for this question. First, let me mention that some assumptions do not apply; quite the opposite. With regard to the increase in minimum wage, I myself and the Ministry of Labour, which I have been running, have for some time warned and urged the social partners, employers and trade unions to sit on this subject and find an agreement between them. Indeed, I do believe in social dialogue and that the solutions agreed there between the social partners can be better and more lasting. Unfortunately, despite my encouragement, this failed. The minimum wage law is clear and I have never heard you say anything at any time about the fact that this minimum wage law would not be implemented as planned. Moreover, the government is now heading towards the economy with a new aid package, which, as you mentioned, will highlight this rise with a certain measure. Since the situation in the labour market and the economy are really tight and because our main objective is to keep jobs, we want to keep them as much as possible so that the economy can start working quickly and as effectively as possible after the coronae epidemic, especially the service sector, we have so far helped to maintain around 300,000 jobs through labour market measures. International comparisons, European comparisons also show that, as a percentage, we have protected the labour market very well with these measures and that unemployment has on average increased less than the comparable countries. Even at the summit of the European Union, we are, which shows that measures for the labour market; and if I mention only the most bearable measures, the most important measures – subsidisation of waiting at home, subsidisation of reduced working time, reimbursement of fixed costs. And now with PKP8, we will propose a measure that will help the economy to bear part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. With regard to the measure of an agreed termination of the working relationship for a worker eligible for an old-age pension adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly after the Committee first withdrawn from the proposal, it is difficult to say that he was not in dialogue with the social partners, since the dialogue with the social partners takes place prior to the meeting of the National Assembly. Although the proposal was not aligned with them, they were in some way familiar with this proposal. I cannot even influence the democratic process in Parliament and take responsibility for this process, because you are Members and Members of the representatives and representatives of the people. This measure is in fact a bilateral agreement on the possibility of a continuation of working relationship during a period when the worker already has the conditions for social security guaranteed in the form of an old-age pension. The change is based on a bilateral, reciprocal relationship between the employer and the employee, as employment can continue if both actors agree. I can assure you that no one, no one, will say no to a good employee. Action based on our analyses, our assumptions reduces the administrative burden on the employer and the removal of longer administrative procedures will encourage the international competitiveness of employers and their adaptability to the new circumstances associated with the covida-19 epidemic. Since our goal is also to increase work activity, and we want to do so at both ends of the age shift or distance of the labour market, young and old, we also believe on the basis of OECD analyses and OECD recommendations, in order to ensure a more responsive labour market for young and older unemployed people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you are, Madam Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u276	Minister, thank you for the answer that wasn't what I wanted. Most of you were talking about minimum wage. But I'm interested in a measure of forced retirement, and we both know what we're talking about, and you've talked a little bit about it. This is a measure that I think should be aligned with the social partners, but it was not. You have determined in the law that this measure is linked to the employment of young people. And I want to know: What studies or analyses do you claim to be? I don't know myself, as I mentioned earlier, but I'm running out of time, and I don't know any such analysis if you're retiring a larger number of older people to hire so many young people at the same time. And I'm also curious: At that time, the measure has now been in force for almost one month, how many young people have already been employed, or how many do you expect; given that this was one of the main reasons for this measure to hire young people? We all know that young people find it difficult to get a job and work too late, and we also have problems at the pension register. I want to know: How many young people have already been employed, or how many do you expect to be employed in 2021 with regard to this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you for this supplementary question, Mrs Zabret. About the Economic and Social Council. Together with the members of the ESF, we have also reached agreement on the Rules of Procedure for the Management of the Coordination of Intervention Laws, i.e. anti-Korona Packages 2020-2021, among the social partners, members of the ESF, who have the task of controlling and reducing the negative effects of the covid-19 epidemic. In addition, the Economic and Social Council has set up a negotiating group to draft a bill on intervention measures to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19, the so-called PKP7. Negotiations for the CAP7 took place within the ESF negotiating group for three days, from 12 to 14 December 2020, with most of the articles being harmonised; several proposals from the social partners were taken into account. With regard to the measure of consensual continuation of the working relationship, this is what I think I can use the public statement of one of the leaders of the unions in the Studio show at 5 p.m. when he made it clear that it is not a matter of formal law for compulsory retirement, because this measure only allows both partners to have the possibility of having an impact on the continuation of the employment relationship or non-continuation. And once again, I assure you that no one will turn down a good worker. By this measure, we refer to the labour market at both ends. After all the analyses, especially OECD analyses, when asked about studies and recommendations, the elderly are 65% unemployed in Slovenia. It is the fact that the labour market has made these unemployed virtually unemployed with this protection since they have not been employed because they have not had an impact on not being caught without being satisfied with the employees have had no impact on whether they continue to work. On the other hand, they can still agree now, even if they break up, they can work elsewhere or set up espies and still enjoy all rights. The answer to how many procedures there are. Because the employees have preserved all rights, we cannot speak yet, because even the cancellation deadlines, if anyone has already initiated such a procedure, have not yet passed; and we will be able to serve with this information later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yes, you can. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask the President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health Janez (Ivan) Janša, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u280	Yes, thank you very much for your word. In the absence of the Prime Minister, of course, I would like an oral response at the next meeting. With drastic measures, we have closed a number of activities, including the regular functioning of the infirmary or limited them to the most urgent. Preventive health care activity is virtually not working. People can't get to a doctor, they can't get to a personal doctor, they can't get to a travel agent. Already such long waiting periods will be drastically extended when health care is restored. However, we also have bright exceptions, which have done everything with innovative approaches to ensure that patients have been treated. The already burdened system now seems to be unable to provide emergency services due to additional constraints. Preventive programmes are declining, access to health services is deteriorating and waiting periods are increasing. The consequences of suspending health care cannot be imagined. I would like to highlight only one example: the functioning of the cervical cancer prevention programme. The cessation of transplantation during the spring epidemic resulted in the first reduction of three-year transparency in 15 years below the 70 % target. As a result, only 19% of the pre-cancer high-level changes in women aged 30 to 39 years were detected due to the reduced functioning of the Zora programme. It is also very worrying that competition enters public health. In order to cover our need for health care, we can turn to private health care providers, but we know what private providers mean to people what private health means to people. You are under the cover of coronaryism and the shortening of waiting periods with a solution in intervention legislation, which by its nature cannot be subject to a referendum judgment, allowing private doctors to be financed with public money. Are we aware that in Slovenia we have a high standard of health services, even though we reach only half of GDP compared to Austria, Germany, that we reach only about EUR 2 000 per capita for health care; in Austria and in Germany, we achieve as much as EUR 4 000 per capita. All of this can be achieved through a good organisation of public health workers, with a well-established network of health services according to standards and standards, given the provision of human resources and the resources of the necessary equipment and infrastructure. All of this, however, must be improved by the organisation of governance, with productivity, not neglecting and disrupting. If we lose this, people will depend on the accessibility of their fundamental rights, everything else will depend on the waiting period and on the personal ability to pay or self-payment. Minister, if you have consciously decided that our public health is failing, then be aware that you are responsible for this cruel transition from public to private health. Be aware that you have the responsibility that this transition will be very cruel, that we will leave hundreds of thousands of pensioners and pensioners, citizens and citizens, employees on whom it depends, on how we will ensure the productivity of our society tomorrow [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you very much. In accordance with your proposal, we will try to get a response at the next meeting. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the minister, too! I know that you've already answered similar questions a number of times today, which I have to say that they seemed very unfair and absolutely nothing aimed at solving the crisis, but rather at instilling problems. In this part, I would like to be very clear — the coworker of the crisis was not invented by this government, nor are you, nor are you, the covid crisis has hit us; and not just Slovenia, but the whole world. We are facing a problem, a problem, and not least a situation that no one could have predicted. We have also never encountered such conditions in the past. This also applies to education. I would like to begin by thanking you, Minister, and all your colleagues, and not least the teachers, that as soon as the spring first wave occurred, you did everything in a really fast time so that the school could run out of time. That's why I don't agree to a different statement today that we have a closed school. We don't have a closed school, but we do have a long-distance education. Our children go to school every day, in a different way, but as we say, there is no other choice. I certainly believe that we must look first - although I know it is difficult for teachers, for children and for parents, that there is one new moment and problems in this - that we all want healthy children, children who are safe first, and only then that everything else is going on. I would now focus on my question. Minister, I know you're 18. 12. have already been presented at a press conference with some of the colleagues of some adjustments concerning the students expected by the graduation this year. It's an important part of their lives. Because we're facing some new strain of the virus, we don't even know how it's gonna go. You don't know that either. I don't know that. That's why I'm asking you: Are you preparing any new forms of adjustment for the students ahead of your graduation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member Bah Gibert. This year, an estimated 9,000 93 students will attend a professional graduation and 6 thousand 927 students will attend a general graduation. The graduation is expected to continue in the deadlines set by the graduation calendar and also published on the State Examination Centre website. Just after that first challenging autumn experience with a wider viral response, it has been shown that consideration will also have to be made in the light of the experience of the spring graduation of the previous school year. I immediately called all the competent ones at the beginning of October, namely the State Examination Commission, both the Presidents of the State Commissions, both for general and professional graduations, of course the Director of the Education Institute and the two Presidents of the competent professional councils, to make a plan to join the prom this year's school year. To this end, in one process, when the idea of how to take this process away this year, we also invited representatives of the Diacea organization of Slovenia, because it was very important for us to hear their voice and their expectations, the calls. In fact, we prepared a solution, as you have already said, with one active cooperation, which was presented on December 18th. Yes, this solution really respects and follows certain specifications of this school year, for graduates of the previous year, it is said last school year when they were in the third year of this spring work. At the level of all these competent institutions, i.e. the State Examination Centre and the two State Commissions, and also in cooperation with the Education Institute, they then prepared certain adjustments, which were then also presented. Students also know them and are also published on the State Audit Centre’s website, so that they can get to know them again at any time, look at them, and of course they were forwarded to the principals of all secondary schools. If these adjustments would then require any changes in the way the graduation is carried out in order to amend the individual provisions of the Regulations, such as the number of supervisors, the number of exam board members, the preparation of the premises and the like, I have also made my full assurance that I will then somehow ensure that, with my conclusions, I will make these adjustments. I am pleased to say that this whole process has been carried out in a peaceful working environment, and that we have indeed adopted some solutions that I believe are adapted to the level of knowledge and also in some way to the self-confidence that students need at this final exam of maturity before entering, either to the labour market or to colleges. And that is precisely why I would like to thank once again all those involved in these processes for their urgent understanding and response, and in particular to the role played by the representatives of the students and their student organisations, including this regional work, in this process. We had two extremely constructive, fruitful, rich debates, which I have also participated in. I must say that we must be proud of them and that, in view of this, we must not be concerned about our future, because it is obviously in the hands of very responsible young young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you very much for your answer. I agree with you that we must be proud of our students; and we are proud of our students, given that they are plowing the ice even in some form of education that they were not accustomed to, it was not practiced by some generation before them. But that's when a crisis strikes that we can't solve in any other way. Minister, I'd like to point out here a dilemma that also arises among the students. I think it might be worth thinking about at this time that's still ahead of us and something else. This is because in individual subjects students can also perform research tasks. I must say that these research tasks are somewhat difficult, even if the students have given themselves some research task of comparing data where different generations need it, if you know what I mean. And these different generations cannot now visit, not communicate with, and so on. So maybe there's some adjustment here, because they just have to make some assumptions. And secondly, in so-called science subjects in high school, they also have laboratory exercises, which are also part of the assessment and at the same time help in their learning of this science class, which they are also unable to carry out now. Therefore, it may be my call to consider in this direction, how it can be compensated or otherwise enable students to gain these bonus points, if I say so, if the exercise cannot be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Here is a talk about practical exams, i.e. seminars, laboratory exercises, other practical exams for which schools have already received instructions on how to perform these parts in October. This has somehow been taken into account, and this has somehow followed. Students also receive appropriate guidance, guidance, and guidance from individual subjects, with these teaching obligations in constant cooperation with professors. But if it turns out that we have a broader systemic problem, I also believe that it will be recognized. And if there's anything else we need, we'll definitely react.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u289	Thank you very much, both of you. Ambassador Zeljko Cigler will ask the President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health Janez (Ivan) Janša, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u290	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor, I am asking an oral question to the President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health, for which I ask an oral answer. For almost three years, we have been monitoring the agony of the General Hospital Celje, which began with the illegal appointment of Margareta Guček Zakošek as director of the hospital. And during this time we have been monitoring the breakdown of the third largest hospital in Slovenia, namely Celje, the departure of personnel, doctors, the conflict with expertise and the exclusion of the profession from the impact on the operation of the hospital, the contraction of health programmes, extremely poor financial operations, which was warned by the Institute of Health Insurance, investigations by the National Investigation Office regarding new construction, the acquisition of protective equipment, medical ventilators, investigations into the purchase of vehicles, the recruitment of exclusively SMC client staff and the removal of other personnel which are and which point to irregularities. On December 12th last year, we saw another attempt to name Margareta Guček Zakošek, but it appears that also by the coalition, the appointed representatives in the world of the General Hospital Celje institution have resisted the appointment of Mrs Zakošek for the reasons I have now listed. Some portals in Slovenia have been reported on the extenuating pressures of Zdravka Počvalska, Jelka Godec and Vinka Gorenak in favour of her reappointment. President of the Government and Minister of Health, we have never seen anything like it in our health care, so much pressure and an affair around one person. What's going on at the cell hospital? Do you really care about 300,000 people who have this primary hospital? Are we, indeed, all the inhabitants of the wider Celje region hostages of obviously corrupt SMC and SDS policies? Is it possible that investigations into corrupt acquisitions of protective equipment and fans lead to the peak of the ruling coalition? Is it true that purchased fans are useless and are now stored outside the hospital at the expense of a hospital, that is, financed from public money? What kind of funds are needed for this? Is it true that the new emergency centre in Celje is poorly planned and must be closed and repaired before the replacement hospital building in Celje continues? Who will take responsibility for this? And most importantly, is it necessary to protect and re-name Margareta Guček Zakošek because of all the corruption and connection with the top of the ruling coalition? Is it true that serious pressure is being exerted on everything to ensure that the vote is re-elected and reintegrated as soon as possible? How does such political appointment and confirmation of incompetent persons at the head of hospitals in Celje and recently in Slovenj Gradec affect the quality of health work and business in these hospitals? And how does such entourage affect the relationship and climate between health and other workers in Celje and Slovenj Gradc? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We will place your wish on the list for the next meeting as regards oral answers. Ambassador Kep will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues and colleagues! I have a question about the 3rd development south axis on the Dolenjska-White landscape. The construction of the 3rd South Axis itself has a long beard and you inherited it from the predecessors. The first section, the first stage of the axis is expected to start in 2019, after 2020, already began to gather operators of the projected bridge over Krk. The first and second stages range from the Ljubljana–Brežje motorway connections across the bridge across Krk and to the Osredek connection. It's five miles long. The biggest problem is that in addition to a time delay, there is a potential loss of European funds. Last year, a favourable solution was also expected through the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the 3rd development axis in Nové Mesto, for which a local civil initiative took place in 2019 on environmental consent to build. It was understood from the press that the environmental consensus was lifted in court and thus the procedure was restored in 2010 in full. The Civil Initiative brought an action against the decision not to recognise the status of a party in the proceedings. The request for a building permit was made by the Dars Motorways Company in December last year, which is an investor in the construction of the first section of the southern part of the third development axis. An environmental impact assessment should be carried out for the construction and participation in the procedure was open to comments by the interested public by 18 January. [[…]] The process leads as an integral process of the Ministry of the Environment. What can a state, the Ministry, do to speed up the process? Why are we going through this so slowly? Even the Administrative Court has decided on a very important case for the work of the State for more than one year. What can be done to ensure that we do not lose our European funds? Why is it that things drag on to construction in our country and end up because of some kind of fish at hydro power plants or because of some birds that are the only birds in Slovenia who can't fly between windmills? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u294	Thank you very much for asking the question. Very weighty, because I am also surprised that we have financial resources, we have everything done, we are leading at this section, it is said, from the exit to the New Town-East motorway to the Osredek connection, we are already leading the call, we already have it completed. We can close the call right away, but we're waiting for all the permits. The complaint of one of the civilian initiatives is so strong or they challenge the very foundation, that is, the route, is so strong that they are now deciding the different instances of the different courts. We're also waiting for the Constitutional Court. Even though we already have the European funds acquired for the construction, we have €39 million of European resources to start building this. We have already acquired an operator, but unfortunately the procedures in this country for placing individual objects or line facilities in a space such that, if available, someone can complain indefinitely. What I want at least, I want this to continue. However, let me say that we will have to decide in May whether we will put this €40 million into another project or remain here. If we don't get a building permit in May, then we don't have to spend these European funds this year. I'm sorry. But it's not the government's fault, it's not the minister's fault, but it's the fault of all the other procedures in this country and that someone who doesn't like something has the right to finally challenge a certain thing before, for example, the Belokrans come to Novo mesto or Ljubljana to central Slovenia earlier. This is a systemic problem that we need to solve and we need to debirocratise. The important thing is that there are other projects on this route. Here we had another problem with the Novo Mesto Congregation. Let me say that all the land is obtained, except for land owned by the Novo Mesto Congregation. This is where the coordination takes place. This month, an agreement will be signed with the Municipality of Novo Mesto, the Municipality of Novo Mesto. So, as I said, the building permit is being issued for the whole section under the integrated procedure. The problem is in this environmental consensus and this is the ongoing problem. Second section. Let me say that, in particular, we will have a section from Malin – once we come out of the tunnel, from Malin on the other hand in the White landscape to Montenegro on the one hand to Metlika – a comprehensive resolution, where Dars will have the authority to carry out all the procedures when this national assembly adopts these resolutions. Until now it is DRSI or it is not specified, but Dars must be the one who will lead this project from Malin to Metlika to Montenegro and this resolution will now be in government within 14 days. Let me tell you, he's in interdepartmental coordination now. The activities at the section also from Montenegro to Vinice have also been completed by the DRSI, which has so far been an investor of the section, in January 2020 and the project has also been eliminated from the budget, so Dars could do so. Another important thing, and this is for the Gorjans themselves and this tunnel. For the sub-section from Osredka to Malin, the contract is now concluded, the project documentation contract is also produced by the investment programme and the project documentation is produced successfully by individual components. Therefore, in December 2020, one month ago, the conclusion of the public procurement for the acquisition of real estate in this part was also the result. So, the invitation and the assurance of the manufacturer's ability to build, that was the first part, to tell you that it was published in July 2019 and is being dragged up until now. Here we also have different procedures before the State Audit Commission, which has favoured the complainants, and this is what is going on. In fact, as a competent minister, you have no leverage to say that this should be concluded in court as soon as possible. But the problem is that travel times are still taking a long time. Mr Member, I would like to get to this link as soon as possible and that the White Country will be closer to central Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, again. Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Dolenje economy, as well as the Belarusian economy, as you have already said, is very export-oriented. The need is essential for a wider, more modern, fast road. Companies need quick infrastructure because time is gold, customers want the product quickly and brought so much to the door. For the Dolenjci, as well as elsewhere, this would be connected, and this connection will also be very good and fast for the sea across the White landscape further across the Vinica. It is a good thing, as you yourself have mentioned, that activities through the Dars Motorways Association for the third and fourth stages of the Southern Axis are advancing. The tunnel of the Gorjans and the connection of the Raspberry, carrying out geological-mechanical research, land plots. Dars is also a new investor, as you yourself mentioned, building a whole third axis — it is supposed to be. In what time, approximately, could all the work on the southern development axis be done if things were to go as normal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u298	Because this is a very complex thing, because the third development axis is a priority. If we want to get closer to the White Country, the southern part of the third development axis is true, and if we want to get closer to the White Region to the central part of Slovenia, we need to go with these parts or also placement and so on. Now I would only touch the problem of Metlika. You know that because of the border crossing itself or the border crossing, there are major setbacks in Metlika itself. Here is currently a study by Darsa and us, studying the different possibilities of how to partially realize the stage past the city of Metlik itself, so that these congestions in the city alone would no longer be so much, and this project of almost three million euros will be completed somewhere by 2023. It's called lorry roads. This goes also through an agreement for the development of regions co-financed at EUR 3 million, the amount is higher, this is a co-financing share. Otherwise, the activities at the Črnomelj do Vinica section were completed in January 2020 by the DRSI, which has so far been an investor, excluded from the budget, and the reason here is also an undefined binding link to Croatia. I'll talk to the minister or we'll talk about where this relationship would be. Certainly our priority is to go from Metlika to Croatia, not via Vinica. Because somehow that makes sense. However, it is essential that we link the white landscape on one side with central Slovenia, as I have already said, and it is important that we also take the Croatian highway because it is a single economic and cultural space. Here it is also necessary to ensure that once we reach Metlika, we also ensure on the other hand that the connections to their Croatian highway Zagreb-Rijeka are connected. So, if I could just summarize it here. I wish or really wish that all administrative procedures for obtaining consensus through to ensure this first part, from the export of the New Town-East to the Centre, and then to the White Land, and in the meantime to work the tunnel under the Gorjanci. Here are also various activities in the Gorjanci, but in particular this first part can be completed, it is to Centre, in 2023 and to Malin until 2028. This is my goal, and I believe that we can start building already this year, as long as we gain all the consensus and, of course, the different initiatives will not be generating.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u300	Dear President, thank you very much for your words! During the pandemic and isolation, many animals are essentially the only living society in the apartment or in the house and in some cases also on farms as roommates. Although animals give us a whole range of support, including emotional and social support, it is often the case that those who have the opportunity to care for animals or who have them to throw them away. In these times, in the crown of times, however, it is also sad that many people simply cannot care for themselves anymore, are unable to care for animals, and these animals often land either on the road or throw them away or are abandoned. But we've also had a lot of cases lately when they're basically left alone because of the owner's death. The animal shelters, societies and individuals are really trying all over Slovenia to take care of these abandoned and discarded animals as best possible. Even in our environment, the surroundings of Ptuj and Ptuj, we have a very well developed network, but, like all over the world, we also have a problem, or even in all these shelters, with financial problems or more resources, so that we can take better care of animals so that we can buy food to castrate certain animals. That's why I'm also asking you as Minister: At this time, will the crown of the crisis be able to increase funds to help these animal, social, and individual shelters? This is really another group in our society, which is said to be the animals that are most neglected or even the most on the edge. There may even be something to gain from European funds. What is the possibility of accessing these funds? A lot of volunteers who really do everything for the pro bono and have a heart to do things — and I personally — are interested in: Is there any possibility through the EU or through European means of accessing any additional means to help these abandoned animals? That's it for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for the question of Mr Korazi. Yes, animal welfare or also for domestic animals is, of course, regulated by the Animal Protection Act, which defines animals as sensitive beings. This was changed in the summer of 2020 and we have also written into the Animal Protection Act. We have 15 shelters in Slovenia. The Animal Protection Act essentially provides that an animal is abandoned and identifies what an animal is abandoned; the animal that is found is a dedicated, abducted pet, except for wild species. Furthermore, the law provides that aid to abandoned animals is an area belonging to the original tasks of local communities, i.e. not even a country. Of course, from this point of view, it is the responsibility of the congregations to provide, or local communities, this provision. Moreover, the law also states that the local community must have one seat reserved for every 800 registered dogs in one of the shelters. It can be a municipal shelter, but it can be anywhere else. The law also states what might be the conditions that are met for a shelter to carry out this task. We're talking about the size of boxing, the number of animals to box, the marking, and so on, so I won't be moving too far. True, abandoned animals or domestic animals are always owned and the owner is responsible for handling this animal. However, sometimes the worst cases that we are talking about, that either an animal lands on the road, as mentioned earlier, are abandoned, the owner may also die. I am pleased that you have used this term as the owner of the animal, but because someone is in charge and also according to our information, when we monitor both in Slovenia and in other countries of the European Union, the largest number of animals that come into the shelter, especially because of changes in behavioral practices in animals, is due to some behavioral disturbances, and in particular to changes in lifestyles: moving, children, I do not know, disease or death of owners, as you have already mentioned, unwanted young people and so on. At the end of the hunting season we also have some more puppies that land as an abandoned animal, although these are usually marked, so they do not have a problem finding the owners themselves. So from this point of view, when we talk about shelters and financial wages in the shelters themselves, it is only right that we stress here once again this competence of local communities and our ministry does not practically contribute to the functioning of the sanctuaries themselves. As far as the EU is concerned. EU funding from the Rural Development Programme or EU rural development programme can benefit agricultural economies, i.e. those registered as agriculture economies, irrespective of legal organisational form. It can be a farm, it can be a company, espé, anything, but it has to be an agricultural economy. This is in principle the basic condition or in some cases the local community, when we talk about investments in irrigation systems, in mixtures and thus investments of larger, broader dimensions in some local environment. These are somehow the basic conditions that investors or those who would like to use rural development programmes must meet – at least this basic condition. I therefore believe that this debate or debate on the long-term financing of this public service will be very important in changing the law we are talking about, the Animal Protection Act. Among other things, in this change with all stakeholders, if you want to use political groups, we are looking for the optimal solution to address this part of the problem in the long term. We are aware that, in particular with some, we now find that turtles are actually landing in shelters. [[…]] Turtles have an extremely long life span, as many as humans, and there can be enormous costs for the care of such animals, so we need to find some solutions to how this part can be solved, and an intensive debate is already under way in amending the animal law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to relate to what you've been explaining about local communities and their obligations to these shelters, or also to the supply of these wild or abandoned animals. It is precisely the problem of these local communities that money is running out or that financial matters do not fit in properly. I think it would be right to think in this direction too, so that it could be even more prudent, that this would somehow come directly to the state level or even to the Ministry, that the ministry would have a greater overview of what is going on or where these financial flows are going. Because that is why the problem is so often that money is simply running out of money and, unfortunately, it often sprawls, as it were, on the weakest of them at home — says the animal. I also have one more question, purely direct: Are you also associated with these shelters and societies? Have you also recently received any suggestions or comments from animal shelters and societies? Have they also invited you or informed you that you would need any additional financial resources in view of the situation in the shelters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u306	Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier, at this point the marriage ground is what it is. Therefore, this public service is a compulsory public service, which means that local communities must provide financial resources for the implementation of this public service. It is a little unpredictable because we never know how many animals from a congregation come to a shelter, so the financial framework is always a little variable, but it is a compulsory public service at the local level. As far as transfer to the country or to our resort. As long as this group, which is now ready for administration, also with stakeholders, has decided on such a solution, I have no problem in principle. But once again, it will be necessary to think first of all about how to solve this long-term systemicly. Even for those animals that land in a shelter without a known owner and who are extremely long-lived. We – I can say this out loud – are very clearly opposed to euthanasia of healthy animals, and I personally agree with this proposal. However, if we just look at a few numbers, in 15 shelters there were data collected in 2019, for last year there were 10 thousand 391 animals, especially cats, in this part, and also a few specimens of these kinds of pets, as I mentioned earlier: room birds, rabbits, turtles and the like. What's going on with these animals? The good 2 thousand 700 were handed over to new owners, a thousand 100 animals were returned to known owners because they were chipped, so here are mostly the dogs that came back. 5 000 220 cats were returned after sterilisation back into the natural environment, 931 animals were euthanized for veterinary reasons, mainly due to injuries and incurable chronic diseases, and 584 animals, especially cats, were killed. These numbers are known and even at this moment the shelters are in some way quite well located in this stream of animals delivered; in short, these animals are relatively quickly handed over to new owners, who then take appropriate care of these animals. Therefore, we believe that such an arrangement, as is currently in progress, is relatively good for it to be a shame to put it on the head, because if we do it immediately as a public service, then we know that costs can fly very quickly into the sky. However, if we ask them if they need financial resources, they will, of course, need them, but for the time being, concrete initiatives, when we get them from other sectors, are not on their side either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. Even before I even decided to run for office on the list, I took a sacred oath, and that is to defend the rights of animals and all those who need help. For this reason, I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject, which could also be linked to the Animal Protection Act or on animal welfare. I also know that Mr Minister is very cooperative or willing to participate, but he also listens to the debate, and I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject in the National Assembly, because in the end we have come to realize that animals are real angels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Mojca Škrnjar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec, first allow me to congratulate you. According to the reports I read, you are one of the most capable ministers of infrastructure in the history of Slovenia. Thank you for your work. Thank you, too, for a beautiful summer when we were able to ride on our highways without special congestion. In fact, these brakes were classics, and every summer, we waited in the heat on the roads along the entire tourist line. Thank you, too, for working for Ljubljana to get us a decent bus station. We deserve this from Ljubljana and Ljubljana, as well as from all visitors. My question, however, is mainly going in the direction of the Štučina divider. It is a road that comes mainly from the end of the bishop, from which many migrant workers migrate every day to Ljubljana, but at the same time it is an area that is disorderly and causes problems for the Šentvidians in Ljubljana. They want orderly surfaces, arranged sidewalks and arranged access to all other pads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u312	Thank you very much. This bump is one of the most burdened bumps, namely, cars arrive daily or migrate daily from Škofja Loka, and from nearby municipalities to Gorenje village, so on. It's from both valleys, Sevska and Poljanska. I'm sure that's very burdensome and we need to arrange traffic here. We also started with this at the beginning of our term of office. With the complete reconstruction of the Celovska road, the Government – look out – issued a regulation already in 2007 on the location plan for this motorway, i.e. at the Šentvid-Kosese section, and this part also includes the reconstruction of the regional road into a quadruple. This has basically been going on for 13 years. The directorate, which belongs to my department, now conducts all activities in this part of Jelen-Stanežiče, almost a kilometer long. At present, the purchases of the facilities are under way, which are then foreseen below for demolition only. All offers have already been made to the owners. Let me stress that all the offers, not half what we're waiting for, will be next year or not, but all the offers have been made to the owners. There are already a few contracts already signed, and so is the DRSI, which is the directorate under my department, which has already begun the valuation process and redemption process for all the remaining land in addition to these things, which are already concluded contracts. Let me say that up to now, 26 contracts of almost EUR 800,000 have been concluded. These contracts are mainly related to the acquisition of land itself, and PGD and PZI are also made for the purpose of obtaining a building permit, we are at this stage, as well as later construction. There's gonna have to be some new stuff here, but I can talk about it later. It is also in the process that the project tasks for this order are now being prepared. A control engineer was also selected to demolish the first two purchased buildings. I'm counting on the first two buildings to make this happen very quickly. The selection of the contractor of the construction works is therefore expected in the following month, for two months and then we go to demolition. The Municipality of Ljubljana will also participate in the construction. We're preparing an agreement. It's not signed yet. One of the coordination meetings that will take place next week with the mayor of the municipal municipality is now in 14 days and we have a set of about 20 points that we need to resolve with each other where this will be. However, the value of construction under the design budget is around €8 million. If we compare this stake with what this bill brings, we quickly come to the calculation that this is not only paid, but that it will repeatedly turn around, depending on how many cars are standing in this area of Ljubljana, so that they can get to the park and ride parking lot, which is now not in operation to reach the park and ride at all. Only then will this P+R parking lot, which was recently built, come into full functionality. What is the goal? The goal is to leave the cars there and then take the bus to Ljubljana. In this way, we will follow the so-called green agreement in which the whole of Europe aspires. So the things in this part that you're asking me about, Mrs Mojca, see here things are going on, I'm counting on us to sign this co-financing agreement with the Ljubljana Municipality as soon as possible, we get a choice for construction works, so contractors for construction works, for demolition and then we continue with the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Can we move on? [[Yeah.]] We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku, which is a percentage. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr Podgoršek, we both know that this is nothing new. I think that we have already spoken twice in the National Assembly on this issue of the 2012 Action Plan adopted by the Government and both ministries, both for agriculture and for the economy, set specific objectives. To date, this report has not yet been practical, although this action plan took place on June 26th, and of course we want not only to challenge or challenge the expression, but I think that this area of forestry, forestry, is so important that it would be worth considering at one extended meeting or at least one agenda item together at a given meeting. That would be necessary. Look, the Minister of Economy himself, as we have spoken twice in the National Assembly in the last seven months, said, yes, this area is extremely painful, we have to save it. But we really want to do what we're gonna do here. The opportunities of the woodworking industry in Slovenia have been much written, said in recent years, we all know that, at all levels we have talked. This is not about how many woodworking centres the state will set up. This is mainly about how in Slovenia we see the woodworking industry in the future or in which direction we will develop it. After all, it is necessary to finish by selling our wood abroad to the Slovenians and buying it back at a higher price or, rather, with the added value created in Austria. That's what hurts, which we're probably united. It is unacceptable that the investment laboratory, which is supposed to show that of the four envisaged wood centres with a satisfactory rate of return, which ensures that the investment is not an illicit state aid, only shows the investment in the Forest Centre of Sneznik in Kočevska and, on the other hand, the proposal for a strategic plan containing an investment laboratory – a business secret. That's not how it works, and that way we can't talk. Look, even last summer we heard from your predecessor, the Minister of Agriculture, that until there's a strategic plan, it's not possible to talk about wood centers. So much conflicting information, opinions, that it's really weird then. And MGRT even has a Forestry Directorate. Since there is no doubt a large-scale project, coordinated and constructive interdepartmental communication is essential. Until recently, of course, this was not the case, and so were we in the National Assembly, even at your hearing, and when the SIDG report was discussed, we talked about it, and virtually none of it. You see, you yourself have admitted that this cooperation has not been enough, it is not good and that is why we are here where we are. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u316	Thank you very much for the question on such an important area as the forest-forest chain. Indeed, the Action Plan was in force until the summer of 2020. The Forest Action Plan is a nice talk about the forest and forest chain and in this action plan it is intended to go, it must go, for a great inter-resort cooperation between the two ministries – the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which covers in its work the forest part, the forestry part of this forest and forest chain, and the Ministry of Economy, which covers the wood-processing part of this forest and forest chain. This action plan was also created beautifully in the domain of the Director of Forestry at the Ministry of Economy. Even when we talked about SIDG, when we discussed the annual report of SIDG in this room, we promised ourselves, in a way, a significantly better cooperation on my initiative. Now, according to my behaviour, the Directors are already sitting together and are thinking about such a report on this Action Plan and also preparing a new one. We will not say a novelty, but prepare a new plan, which we will probably tell him otherwise, or we can call Les beautiful too, because we have no problem with it because in forestry all things are done in the long term anyway. But let me tell you what in this part of the forest and forest chain in terms of our competence in this, in recent years, let's say to this almost 15 years, 14 years. During the 2014-2020 programming period, I apologize, 2007-2013 we supported investment in the forest and forest chain under the Rural Development Programme – investments for mechanisation, infrastructure, forest roads and so on, as well as for primary wood processing. Similarly, in this programming period there are similar investment parts, and during this programming period part of the Rural Development Programme is also devoted to investment in forest care, to artificial forest restoration, especially after these captures, this is a very topical issue. Well, and in the previous programming period, we have earmarked €50 million, €49 million, for this purpose. During this programming period, we have another two years of transition period, 46 million have already been approved, and another 14 million are expected to be one or even two new public calls for these purposes, i.e. around €60 million will be for the forestry part of the forest and forestry chain. Also from the Forest Fund we ourselves promote the forest and forest chain, but again our ministry from this primary work, namely the forestry part of the forest and forest chain. But speaking of SIDG, I agree. The society is still waiting for full leadership, we still don't have a name. There is probably also one part of the blame on me as a minister who exercises the responsibility of overseeing this society in order for this matter to happen as well. It appears that this leadership will also be called the full mandate and then the operation and preparation of all these business plans that we are talking about, for wood centres, wood processing centres, financing mode, public, public-private, private, incentives – I don't know, this will have to form a new leadership in terms of the strategic development work of SIDG. We have already, I will repeat the sentence that I have, I think, once in this debate I have already repeated, that it is also unimaginable for me that we export round wood from Slovenia, bring back furniture, and in Slovenia it is not worth producing. That is why I am still convinced that there are some sources of error in these business plans. Whether we have the wrong products at the end or we have the I don't know. [[…]] In short, I'm not a woodsman or a forester myself, it's not my profession, but I imagine that there's probably something wrong at the starting points to say that in neighbouring Austria the number of jobs has increased by about as much as in the last 30 years in Slovenia. Almost the same numbers. Up there, down there. This means that we have a natural resource to exploit. I believe that, together with the Minister of Economy, we must resolve this and we have already made quite close contacts. Just in the wake of the unfortunate earthquake in Croatia, we were sitting at the MGRT meeting. Let's just say we're a little stressed out and we're gonna do something in the future, in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u318	Because we have such an important subject, don't we? See, this analysis from this area, which was done a few years ago for the National Assembly, showed drasticness. Austria is four times larger by population and by surface than Slovenia and cuts by population, Austria, once more wood than Slovenia. These are the key data we come from. However, as far as income and value added are concerned, Austria reaches 11 times more and we support them, of course, if we drive our wood industry up, their capacity is fuller and more economical. Not to speak, but this is true for a broader debate, because today is not enough time. In particular, at the meeting that we want, with this report that you will give, I want you to respond specifically to the objectives set: How did we develop the wood production and services market? Did we increase the cut of the wood mass? In particular, I am interested in increasing the quantities of wood processing with a higher added value. Have we done enough here? How many new jobs are there? That's it. 30 thousand jobs were halved, less than 10,000. The trifle has improved, but I say, this is the private sector that has made its own. I do not know how much the state has helped or this action plan, which has had the task of bringing both ministries together, of course by industry, one for forestry, one for forestry. What is this added value compared to Austria? The numbers count. Both ministers responded to us, and here we have this, and we have this third, a bunch of one activity, but then they count the results, the indicators by which we measure this performance. We need to know: Are we successful or not successful? What's the next action plan? That's what I expect.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I'm going to touch again on the part covered by our department, so let's not make it look like I'm avoiding the others, but on the woodworking work another minister is competent in this cooperation; we, as those who provide the raw material, they, after that, are processing this raw material. That's why I'm going to touch this first part. In Slovenia, we can cut about 6 million cubic metres per year according to forest management plans. By the end of 2014, we had cut down about 1 million cubic metres in state forests, irrespective of how they were regulated. This is what follows from forest management plans, i.e. the entire quota, and in private forests, only one, 2 million and a half million from five million authorised cuts are usually allowed. Which means, in private forests, there is only half of the cut allowed, uncut. In recent years, we have recorded significantly better numbers mainly due to the sanitary section – archers, winds, glands, leaving consequences – and owners, thank God, have embarked on intensive rehabilitation. In the state forests, I think we've been to 1.5 million cubic metres of cut wood for one year, mainly because of sanitary cuts. Probably no more quantities like that, if they're pretty normal years. What do you do? In the future, we also have a very important limiting factor in the future management of forests in Slovenia, which is the depth of CO2 or so-called LULUCF, which we are trying to bring with the Minister of the Environment in a way that we will still provide at least six million cubic metres of annual logging in Slovenian forests. Otherwise, we're taking a risk, aren't we, that our forests will grow old and our forests will suddenly be no longer sinking, but they'll be a source of CO2 emissions? That is why, in agreement with the European Commission, we have reached, I think, an appropriate agreement that will allow, let's say, quite normal forest management. Of the 6 million cubic meters that we will cut, we want to keep 6 million in Slovenia. That's probably the result or the wish of all of us. On the other hand, how to achieve a greater slaughter for private forest owners. We have over 400 thousand forest owners in Slovenia. The average property per one is 2.7 hectares. Probably a lot of owners don't even know where Slovenia is, not just where its forest is. All over the world, they are owners, and this is also the result of denationalisation, and I am not critical of this work, but this is the actual situation that we have today. So my mission was and still, I repeat, as Minister I also promised at my hearing, if you remember that I want the Ministry and the Institute of Forests to step up work with forest owners. In this direction, we are working both at the Ministry and at the Institute of Forests to manage these forests according to plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u322	Today's debate also shows, of course, that this area is so important, and I really hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, we will hold a debate in which, of course, both ministers will be present. I hope that the members of the coalition will also support this, as this issue has been raised several times in the National Assembly on both sides, both coalition and opposition Members. So, for everyone's sake, for the good of the economy, because there's added value in the back here, there's GDP growth, there's the number of employees. If we succeed in five, ten years to create 10,000 jobs here, then we have done a great deal for our own raw materials, with the wealth Slovenia has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Boris Doblekar is supposed to ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My friend's gone, the minister's gone, too. We're moving on. Ambassador Zeljko Cigler will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u324	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! As Minister, you exercise the official supervision of the Slovenian Waters Directorate, which is the body in the composition of your Ministry, so I ask. The users of Medlog premises have learned from their own perception and from the media that the State Water Agency has started implementing temporary and alternative flood measures in this Medlog area. This new arrangement has never been presented to the public and in a local, common and public manner. Consequently, the Aarhus Convention, which gives the public the right to access and participate in decisions on environmental matters, has not been taken into account. To the question raised by the Medloge, the Waters Directive replied – i.e. to the question whether all the measures being implemented are legal and based on the applicable spatial acts – they replied that all their measures are in conformity with spatial acts. However, such a local flood measure was planned for implementation in 2016 and, in verifying the conformity of such interference with spatial acts, the Management Unit of Celje replied in writing that the intended intervention did not have legal basis in the documents in force. This is also the response given by employees at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and I can tell you who. The construction law for all operations not covered by a building permit shall lay down the conditions for them to comply with spatial acts. Mr. Minister, I ask: Why is the construction of these flood-free buildings without a building permit taking place in the face of an undetected direct threat or the occurrence of natural or other accidents? In fact, local flood measures have so far been implemented in the Celje area with a building permit. In particular, the “provisional measure” is not a matter of construction immediately after the flood. See, the entire Savina Valley near Savinja with tributaries is directly unforeseeable floods and, given the possibility of construction without permits, all interventions in this area could be conducted in such an interpretation and explained manner without construction permits and without the possibility of entry into the process. That's an abuse of regulations, if that's the case. Second question, Mr. Minister: Why is the construction of these anti-floating buildings taking place in contrast to the Ingrad Gramat wall plan in the part where it is a ditch, 700 meters long, and it is not even foreseen in this wall plan? However, in accordance with spatial legislation, the construction participants, i.e. the current directorate, were informed by participants in the construction of local measures as early as the end of 2016, when other anti-float measures were concluded in Celje.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Your Honour, if you would like a precise answer to your questions, we would also ask that in your announcement. In your announcement, you said you would ask an oral question about the provision of flood safety in the Lower Savina Valley. Here, however, you provide a whole set of concrete dilemmas accompanied by concrete projects and, of course, if you wanted an answer to this, you would have asked me this question in a statement of questions, so that you could, of course, also properly verify all the existence of all these legal acts and so on. However, with regard to the flood protection of the Medlog area with Spica in Celje, the ILO, on finding that Levec will not be able to carry out the dry buffer without an accepted VAT, ordered the production of a hybrid or hydraulic verification study of the wider area of Spice in Celje, to take into account the arrangements carried out at Ložnica and Savinja. On the basis of this study, this was done in 2015, provision was made for alternative measures to protect the largest possible area of the settlement of Spica and Medlog, while at the same time ensuring that the remaining premises do not deteriorate in any way. In December 2020, the designer, Hydrosvet and IZVO-R, d.o.o., submitted a written statement stating that the planned measures would flood the safe area of Spica east of the envisaged high-water embankment and wall. It is said that this will be safe before the return of 100 years of high waters and that there will not be an increase in flood risk in the area that remains under the influence of floods even after the envisaged measures have been implemented. The planned measures reduce the leveling situation from 5 to 15 centimeters and also reduce the volume of floods in the populated area in the event of low flows in the back of the Q100. All of these measures ensure flood safety for people. I am sure that all these interventions are carried out in accordance with the legislation in force, or the State Directorate for Water would not have afforded them. If you have any other information that does not conform to the spatially executed acts, please inform the relevant institution of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I understand what you're thinking. I'll try to fix it later. However, it is a fact that 23 are affected. On the 11th year of last year, the construction inspection was made aware of these suspected violations of the papers we spoke of earlier. Even as far as I know, you've been given this document. But that's all I'd say: Why is the State Spatial Plan not continuing to ensure flood safety? In fact, the spatial plan, which provides for the Levec holder in the immediate vicinity, has been stalled for various reasons, but has nevertheless been made public. Mr. Minister: Why is certain efforts not made to implement this publicly developed and professionally at least partially verified restraint? In fact, Levec's retainer could, at the will of the contractor, be replaced by a partial continuation of the DN, if it is not otherwise, and the obstacles to the adoption of all the intended restraints in the Lower Savina Valley are too great. Instead of being temporary in Medlog it would mean more comprehensive and more protection of Spice, Medlog, Celje and Laško. That's what I'd say, Mr. Secretary. However, if a comprehensive, I emphasise, a comprehensive hydrological-hydraulic study has not been produced at all times, not only for Spica, but also the expressed necessity of the temporary embankment and its professional support and the real impact on flood safety. Above all, by placing a temporary embankment in Medlog is a sacrificed part of the consumers’ space, that is, once again, 8 apartment houses, 12 companies, the Montessori kindergarten. Here lies the water protection area of Celje, where several hectares of land lie. All of this is sacrificed without the possibility of their participation in procedures that should provide legal certainty. Only in order to ensure a building permit for six block villas.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u330	For a comprehensive solution to the flood problem in the Lower Savina Valley, it is necessary to implement as many as ten dry retainers, as it is a wide area where many watercourses result in this valley. In order to implement this dry buffer and the remaining nine – that is to say, along with this dry retainer Levec there are nine others – there is a state spatial plan in preparation, which Mr Dejan Židan, Minister of Environment and Agriculture, then stopped. As a result, it was not possible to implement this necessary dry buffer to counter the flood protection of the Celje area west of Savinja and Ložnica and south of the Celje-Zalec railway line. As the new minister, I immediately ordered the production of a hybrid hydraulic study of the Savinja river basin, which will provide precise information for the implementation of all the necessary flood measures on the Savinja river. The Directorate of the Institute shall be at 15. On 10 last year, it has already concluded a contract with the operators of the study in question, IZVO-R and Hydro Council, in parallel with which it will provide for the launch or continuation of the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, with which all necessary measures will be carried out. That's very simplistic. The previous minister or one of the previous ministers has stopped this project. We started it back and for this purpose a full hybrid hydraulic study is also being prepared for this part – pardon, hydrological and hydraulic study, not a hybrid hydraulic study. In order to reduce flood exposure, these measures, as I mentioned earlier, have also been implemented, and these measures, which, according to experts and designers, such as the Hydro Council and the IZVO-R, improve the flood safety of the Spice area as well as the rest of the area, not against the frequency of flooding of centuries-old waters. It is therefore an essential upgrade to flood protection, which, according to our assessment, takes place professionally, in accordance with all the rules. However, if you, honourable Member, have evidence of other facts that either the matter is not professional or that it is not in accordance with the rules, please and I call upon you to provide me with evidence of that. As Minister, I commit myself to launching all necessary procedures in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Comrade Brickler, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for saying so! I propose voting on a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to address this matter, which is now under way for the second time. Firstly, it is a measure that will not guarantee greater flood safety in Spica, nor in Medlog will it improve flood safety, even less downstream in Laška, but actually it is a matter of regulating the conditions for a concrete project, as I said before, 6 villas blocks. Secondly, you have been approached, Mr Minister, residents and entities from Medlog to provide them with spatial documents and building permits to do so. But I would just like to say something; a dry retainer in the Levec, even though he was not set up, happens whenever there is very high water, that the Levec — where the dry holder should be — is flooded. Savinja due to the reduction of the anti-floating coast, just below the Eko Level, where they have their seat, and this is the company that carries out these flood measures, there comes the nivelete, down the coast and there hits Savinja across and floods, first part of the sorrowful municipality, then Levec, Medlog and forward Spico towards Celje. I ask that the matter be dealt with at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask a question to the President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health, John Ivan Janša, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u334	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Mr. Jansha! As with the President of the Government and also now as Minister of Health, on 4 December and 5 January, the Trade Union of Workers in Health of Slovenia sent you an urgent call to regulate the area and the number of accumulated problems, and at the same time the Chamber of Health and Granny Care of Slovenia joined. In the record, because they didn't get the answer, they wrote the following. That none of those responsible at the Ministry of Health will find the time to respond to many highly reasoned calls. This is an appropriate attitude towards nurses, who bear one of the greatest burdens of controlling the epidemic, they ask further questions. Now, see, in the chamber, it is estimated that at least 25 percent of nurses, or about 2 thousand 100, are already missing in normal conditions. In the event that we have an epidemic now, we would actually need an even larger number. The union also consistently warns that at least a few pay graders must be classified in the healthcare and nursing systems. Their requirements are therefore not about tearing the salary system into the public sector, which is part of the coalition plan, but about changing the approach of the methodology for the classification of professions or jobs into the system itself, not taking into account only acquired education as the key to comparable payment, but also, above all, the complexity of work and the responsibility of the worker in a particular workplace. An additional problem in all these matters is also the unacceptable new collective agreement for healthcare workers, which remained somewhere in the Department of Health drawers. The WHO also warns that nine million additional nurses will be needed in the world by 2030. Since nurses or even all caregivers have experienced this stepmotherly relationship in the case of these promised supplements, I ask you: Are you planning to revise the salary classification for healthcare and care workers by also reflecting their basic salary to reflect their minimum fair pay for the work they are doing, as employees in these professions have already suggested? In the end, I would just add, a health care-free system, even though there are no top-notch doctors and there is no such thing as a medical system. I request an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Your request will be included in the next session. Ambassador Primož Siter will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa, who is absent between 7:30 and 21 p.m. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u336	Thank you very much. In the context of measures to prevent the spread of covid-19 infection, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a series of measures which interfere with the restriction of the right to free movement of citizens and citizens, the prohibition of pooling and gathering in public places, i.e. curfews, and the prohibition of crossing municipal borders, etc. The professional public and official statistics note that the measures listed to combat the spread of infections do not achieve the desired objectives of epidemic control. Therefore, in the light of the epidemiological profession, they are of no value. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for police oversight of their compliance, insist on them nevertheless. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior and the police shall act unlawfully, disproportionately and penally in the monitoring of the implementation of measures in respect of citizens and citizens. I therefore ask the Minister the following questions, first of all on the measures: On the basis of which and whose expert recommendations in the field of epidemiological and public health, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted these measures? According to your data, to what extent and to what extent have the measures listed so far contributed to preventing the spread of the epidemic, i.e. the measures most severely sanctioned by the police? Also on police surveillance: Why do the internal ministry, the police and the competent inspection services monitor more intensively the violations of the curfew and the prohibition of collection in public places than the failure to provide conditions for safe work in companies, such as manufacturing establishments, offices and so on, during the epidemic? We know that the spread of infections on the one hand is less likely, or epidemiologists say almost zero out in the air, in external activities, also in urban centres, and so on, and on the other hand the highest possible or highest level in the workplace, i.e. in production halls, offices and so on. I don't understand this imbalance. And the last question: Why does the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for police control over the implementation of these measures, insist on their validity despite, for the first time, the unjustifiedness of their public health value and, on the other hand, constitutional disputes, as pointed out by both lawyers and constitutional judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u337	Thank you very much. You will receive a written reply at the next meeting. Lips? Okay, then that's the way it's supposed to be. That is to say, we will place your request for an oral response at the next meeting. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask a question to the Prime Minister of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health, Janez Ivan Janša, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u338	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have been asking the honourable President of the Government, in his capacity as Minister of Health, a question concerning this epidemic, which has been proclaimed for almost a year by a few interruptions and the release of measures. But there's something I don't understand why it's constantly recycled in the cane or the milder form of this measure that's been known since spring. Neither the Ministry nor the government has introduced any new measure, which would suggest that we are working on the basis of new knowledge. For in this field there are many new knowledge, throughout the world, and we have come to a new conclusion. The result is that the matter is not going forward. We can't just blame one resident, the opposition and the third. If the measures are right, we should get a better grip on each other. We can't have the best government and the worst results. I'm asking: Why do not such a portal, covid-19 Follower, Ministry of Health or Center, make their official intersection of data infected and deceased according to the age of the population, with the abundance of different portals that provide us with insight into the statistical consequences of covid-19? Thus, in some ways they would have their own research and clear parameters for determining measures such as school closure or possible exacerbation in the field of older people. Please reply and information: What is the age structure of the covid-19 patients and the age structure of the covid-19 deceased from the first recorded case infected with covid-19 to the day of the reply to this question? I'm asking for a table display. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u339	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, do you want a written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u340	I want my lips.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u341	I don't understand you. Display in table, can't do this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u342	Table. A display of tables, in principle like the covid-19 Follower, only that there are official displays to see in which structure, how many sick, how many dead from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u343	Good. Thank you very much. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. A series of issues affecting the distribution of property, its ownership and profitability in the country. I don't need a table display. I just need numbers. In short, it's a question of statistics. What was the number of owners of one property, the number of owners of two properties, the number of owners of three properties, four or more properties, ten or more properties and the number of owners of hundreds or more properties between 2010 and 2020? How many properties owned by ten owners of the largest number of properties in Slovenia, again in the period 2010-2020? How much were the average value and the average surface area of their properties? How many properties owned by the owner of the largest number of properties in Slovenia between 2010 and 2020? How much were the average value and the average surface area of his properties? What was the distribution of real estate owners into decimal classes according to their property value between 2010 and 2020? What was the distribution of housing owners into decimal classes according to the value of residential properties held between 2010 and 2020? What was the distribution of business space owners into decimal classes according to the value of business premises owned between 2010 and 2020? What was the distribution of parcel owners into decimal classes according to the value of parcels owned between 2010 and 2020? What was the distribution of asset owners into decimal classes according to the value of their total assets in 2010 to 2020? What was the distribution of natural persons into decimal classes according to the amount of income received from the rental of assets between 2010 and 2020? How much of the rental income has ten debtors received with the highest income from renting assets between 2010 and 2020? And to conclude: How much of the rental income has a natural person received with the highest income from the transfer of assets between 2010 and 2020? It may have been a bit boring to listen to, but I tried to be quite punctual in this series of questions that some information did not fall through cracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! In opening, I must say that these questions relate to the records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Most of these questions relate to this. Nevertheless, at the Ministry of Finance, we also asked the Geodetic Administration about those questions that could actually be answered or those that could actually be answered. So from this point of view, I'm going to give some answers. The Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia keeps data for 6 million 500 thousand properties in real estate records. They are divided into 8 million 993 thousand 218 different units of valuation, namely, if we are talking about all properties – and most of the questions relate to all properties – then we can say that in this context we have 5 million 730 thousand land plots, 1 million 892 thousand buildings, 1 million 190 thousand buildings and these are owned by 1 million 139 thousand property owners. The overall estimated value of all properties in the Republic of Slovenia is 151 billion 885 million 975 thousand 403. Of this, natural persons own about 105 billion properties, legal persons hold 38 billion properties. Depending on day 25. 1. 2021 has 346 thousand 222 owners owned by one property, 199 thousand 56 owners owned by two properties, 125 thousand 989 owners owned by three properties, 256 thousand 989 owners owned by four or more properties, 201 thousand 908 owners owned by ten or more properties, almost 10 thousand, 9 thousand 756 owners, owned by one hundred or more properties. Here's the thing to say. To talk about apartments, houses, garages, offices, restaurants, buildings of general social interest, industry, special industrial properties, agricultural and other buildings, buildings for tourism, agricultural land, forest, building land, other land. And if we're talking about all units of valuation, there's almost 9 million, 8 million 993 units of real estate. According to the apartments, one owner or 256 apartments is owned by one owner. Excuse me, one property has 256 thousand 626 people. Two properties, the number of owners of two properties is 30,000 357 thousand, three apartments 7 thousand 540, four apartments 4 thousand 318. Then we have between 10 and 99,709, and over 100 apartments, 194 people. We can say that 546 thousand 282 houses have one owner or one owner has so many houses, two persons have 107 473 thousand houses, the number of three owners, that is to say 15 thousand 567 houses, from four to nine have 3 thousand 515 [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u347	Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid the time has run out. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u348	Let the Minister continue with his answers. Mr. Minister, if you could repeat this last thing for the magnetogram you said. Thank you. That last sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u349	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u350	The number of owners of one property is 256 000 626, this property refers to dwellings. The number of owners of two properties or two apartments is 30 thousand 357. The number of owners of three properties is 7 000 540. The number of owners of four to nine properties is 4 thousand 318. The number of tens to 99 properties is 709. And the number of owners of a hundred and more apartments is 194. Similar information can also be provided for houses, garages, offices, local buildings of general social interest, industry, agricultural and other buildings, tourism, agricultural land, forest, building land and so on. From that point of view, if I'm giving the house a case again. One house has 546 thousand 282 people. Two houses of 107,473 persons, three properties, houses — 15 thousand 567, four to nine — 3 thousand 515, between 10 and 99 — 46, more than 100 — none. Similar data can be provided for garages, offices, restaurants, agricultural land, for example the owner of one agricultural land or number, yes, 120 thousand 181 thousand persons, two agricultural land 70 thousand 580 and so on. More than 100 owners are 2 000 18 people. We have a similar view for forests and so on. If we are talking about the number of individual real estates by group of estimated property values and by individual types of real estate, such as the recording of the valuation records today, then we can say from these estimates that the dwellings are from zero to 10 000 – 10 000 – 325 according to estimates, from 10 to 30 thousand EUR is 28 thousand 468, from 30 to 50 thousand EUR – 55 579 dwellings, from 50 to 78 thousand – 75 thousand 56, from 80 to 100 thousand – 35 682, from 100 thousand to 200 000 – 74 thousand 183 dwellings, from 200 thousand to 300 thousand – 13 thousand 844, from 300 to 400 thousand – 3 thousand [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u351	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the last report. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. Dear Minister, the Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly! There was a regular information event last weekend. The previous years took the form of a fair at the Economic Exhibition, and this year, due to the epidemiological situation on the Internet and it was presented by providers of secondary school programmes, higher education and higher education programmes from Slovenia as well as abroad. The choice of continuing schooling, however high school, college or university school, is a turning point in life for a young person and the decision is never, in fact, easy, correct and final. Employment after a completed study is one of the important criteria and issues that have an important impact on the decision of each individual. I believe that this information should be available on admission to high school and college. Moreover, the country should adapt the tendering venues to the needs of the labour market. It seems to me that it is simply unfair for young people to be enrolled in a university program, and after the end of the study for this education, which they acquire and spend five years of the best life, they do not get a suitable job. This is one of the things that leads to vanity. My question today is related to the initiation of a study in dental medicine at the Medical Faculty of the University of Maribor. The Faculty of Medicine in Maribor was founded around 2004. We know that it was also received, I will say, one slight disapproval by the Ljubljana Faculty, and something similar we Members witnessed at the hearing, i.e. at the meeting of the mother labour body, when representatives of the University of Ljubljana also opposed the beginning of this study. Most of all, we now know that the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor has a suitable building, costing 40 million euros, has rooms and has equipment. I want to know: Will the dental medicine programme be available in the study year 2021/2022? This is of particular interest to me in view of the fact that for some time, over the last two years, there has been a debate about who will pay and cover the costs of schooling estimated at €120,000 per year for the first year. Once again, 40 million was a building that was built, several million cost equipment that has been dormant for two years, and this is a major damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Reich! Let us conclude this day with the good news. In fact, everything you're saying is true. First of all, it is necessary to think in the context of the call for and support for study programmes in this way of life in terms of what are the actual needs on the market and the need for employment, and that we still have a considerable and extensive work to do in the light of the so-called modernisation of higher education. This was also one of the reasons why for the study year 2021/2022, after years of discussions, convincings, calls, efforts at the University of Maribor Medical School, we proposed 20 places for a regular study of dental medicine. Such a proposal has been proposed by our department in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I will tell you that I signed it on Friday, last week, and that this proposal has now been included together with all other tendering posts for the 2021/2022 study year at the government hearing. I expect, if not this week, that we will also consider it definitively in the coming week and confirm it. In order to provide a legal basis for financing arrangements at the Ministry, we will proceed to amend the Regulation on public funding for higher education institutions and other institutions. In this way, for 2022, funding from the higher education institution for the basic pillar of funding is being redefined as a result of an increase in the cost of implementing all health-care programmes due to epidemiological conditions and the need to increase entry places; as stated in the study year 2020/2021 and 2021/2022. This change will regulate the financing of all higher education institutions, which means that we will also arrange for the basic funding of a study of dental medicine at the University of Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u356	Dear Minister, thank you very much for this really good and positive answer. In Maribor we waited for him for more than two years. We need to be aware that we have a new building at the Medical College, which is earthquake-safe, costing more than €40 million, and very expensive equipment is in there. The Faculty's leadership has worked hard and has also worked hard to obtain donated equipment for the implementation of the dental medicine study programme, and today it is one of the very beautiful and wonderful news that we have been waiting for in Maribor and Northeastern Slovenia. For a long time, we had this feeling that we were somehow being pushed aside. In Maribor, even in some kind of cheerleading way, because of this discourse that Ljubljana is against Maribor, today this thank God is cut off. I will say the forces that opposed the beginning of this are somehow defeated and of course this is one very good news. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u358	Only with wishes for a good, good, successful start of this study program in Maribor. It is indeed an important regionally-positioned programme, as the MEP said. Reich, in one important part of our country. So, good luck, all good and we keep our fingers crossed so that the cities will also be filled!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-25-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u359	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 27. 1. 2021 when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I'm also adjourning the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
