ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janja Sluga from 12 noon onwards, Nada Brinovšek, mag. Carmen Furman, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Han, Franz Rosec, Joseph Horvat from 10 a.m. to 17 p.m., Franz Kramar, Aljaž Kovacič, Tomaž Lisec and Mag. Dušan Verbich by 1:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With this novel, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, we want to arrange the following things. First of all, it is necessary to transpose the directive under EU jurisdiction, a directive which we are almost two and a half years behind, which is supposed to be implemented in 2018. This is the Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange or education programmes for projects and the work of au pair babysitters. It is therefore a directive to facilitate the possibility of residing or carrying out all the activities listed in the Republic of Slovenia for third-country nationals. We are practically summarising the directive in its entirety, except in the part that talks about babysitters, we simply did not include this part. Furthermore, the law implements the new Article 10th of the Foreign Act. As you know, part of this law in the Constitutional Court has been annulled, so this time in Article 10b or Article 10a, we resolve the matter slightly differently. We also introduce into this law the concept of a complex crisis. Although the complex crisis is defined in the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of a major incident, or in situations like that, for example, in 2015 and 2016, we will resolve matters this time by declaring this complex crisis and temporarily suspending the implementation of the ad persona law, which we have tried to – and I believe we have also been able to – harmonise exactly as the Constitutional Court has imposed, so in our opinion this article is now in line with the law. At the same time, the law also implements the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland exit agreement from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. All of this is due, as you know, to the exit of Great Britain by 31. 12th year last year. There are also other changes that we are introducing. And I will only say the key things, and later we will be able to explain in detail what is the subject of the law. So, the first thing that's somehow new is the return of foreigners who live illegally in the country. We are introducing two categories, i.e. we are introducing a 30-day voluntary exit from the country, with fines provided, in so far as there is no voluntary departure, sanctions which, in the final sequence, can also lead to the fact that such persons are banned from re-entry into our country for a further year or even more. We're extending the deadline for family reunion. Family reunification is extended from one to two years, with some exceptions being granted, so if a child who has only one parent is with us, of course this exception does not apply, or if someone is the custodian of that child, the family can be joined together before that time. There have been cases where there were, say, highly educated doctors, and they had a child, say, in Serbia, but they didn't have to bring him together, so we're kind of following this exception. Then we introduce ourselves into a new knowledge of Slovenian language. In the case of the first application or the first entry, this knowledge is required at level A1, in the case of a multi-annual stay of more than five years, when it is actually a permanent stay, we raise this requirement for knowledge of Slovenian to level A2. The important thing is that we are changing the evidence of livelihoods, so we are shutting down what they have been able to prove so far, including diaries, travel costs and so on. It's gone. In fact, it is only the naked salary they receive, not all these supplements. At the same time, we also introduce administrative relief or removal of administrative barriers. All this verification will be carried out automatically through Furs' records and through other records that exist in the country. I may conclude by transferring the power to implement the integration measures to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the care and integration of migrants. Very quickly, because I think my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Foreigners Act, which, according to the proposaler, is intended to transpose the European Directive in particular. But we are already used to the fact that laws change because of the transposition of the provisions of the European Directives, but they usually hide some contentious provisions. Regrettably, even journalists who announced yesterday, at the forecast of the regular meeting of the National Assembly, that it was a law on the content of the transposition of the provisions of the directive. However, they did not notice many of the controversial provisions that the Government is trying to bring quietly through the legislative procedure. In particular, it will be an attempt to reintroduce the suspension of existing legislation and binding international conventions, as the Constitutional Court has already ruled, which has been invented by the so-called New Institute of Complex Crisis, which, of course, we have heard, has declared itself the Government. The Law on Foreigners is unusual in its own name, and it shows that it governs those other people who do not have the same rights as the first humans. At the same time, the law itself divides the foreigner into two categories, good, desirable foreigners from the countries of the European Union, and bad, unwanted foreigners from the so-called third countries. Such an attitude towards these foreigners also contributes significantly to a sense of danger among the population, although there is no rational basis for this, and it is this sense of danger and fear of the alien population that leads to such legal arrangements based on the protection of paternity, not to the best possible regulation of the coexistence of citizens and non-nationals of Slovenia in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We do not need a law on foreigners that will strengthen borders, but a law that will improve the integration of foreigners into our society. The government would like to legislate a complex crisis that would solve the problem of increased migration. We are indeed dealing with a complex crisis, but not with what the Government is imagining, which is seeking to take on anti-constitutional powers. We are dealing with a complex crisis of the global economic system, which is completely capitalist. Migration is also one of the consequences of this crisis. Global warming caused by human activity causes climate change, which exacerbates living and working conditions. The neo-colonialist policies of Western countries by means of the military force try to maintain their privileged position and access to the energy and minerals necessary for the functioning of the existing economic system. As a result, there are many macro- and micro-conflicts that force people to find a new life in the human condition. The government is trying to establish an institution of complex crisis, which, upon its announcement by the Government, would allow refugees to be rejected at the border without having the power to apply for international protection. This is already happening more or less publicly, because from Italy, Slovenia, Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, bilateral agreements return refugees without allowing them to apply for international protection. Last week, the Italian Court decided that such return of people from Italy to Slovenia was illegal because it was contrary to international conventions, the Italian Constitution and legislation. The Court therefore condemned the procedures for returning the so-called pushbacks based on the bilateral agreement between Italy and Slovenia. Such a judicial decision has also warned all other countries, including ours, which use the same methods and also violates international conventions. In such procedures, however, it is not only a matter of forced return but also of how it is carried out. One month ago, The Black Book of Pushbacks was published by Border Violence Monitoring Network. It describes the appropriate mistreatment of state authorities by migrants on their illegal return to the countries from which they came. Pushback means illegal return across the state border without migrants being allowed to apply for asylum. In doing so, the public authorities, mostly the police, serve or deceive, mislead potential applicants for international protection or even inhumane conduct, and in extreme cases even torture. We've seen documents and articles about it. We are dealing not only with violations of the administrative rules by the state authorities, but even with crimes. Police violence can be classified as torture or other forms of violence during the procedure, which is undoubtedly a crime in all countries of the European Union. And in all these cases, which are only listed in this publication on more than a thousand pages, our government is proposing the possibility of collective rejection of people who need help and sending them to countries where they are proven to violate human rights and police violence is a documented practice, such as, say, an example in Croatia, because it is some other people who are not treated as human beings at all, but only as a security problem. On the basis of the proposal, the Government could, on the basis of an assessment by the Ministry of the Interior, decide on the implementation of crisis management and management in a complex crisis in the Republic of Slovenia as a result of the changed situation in the field of migration or other circumstances referred to in Article 20, paragraph 6, of the Act. Provisions in connection with a complex crisis allowing, despite the stated intention of the applicant, not to apply the provisions of the Law on International Protection, the suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. The suspension of the Convention on the Status of Refugees is only possible in accordance with Article 44 of the Convention governing the formal procedure of withdrawal. The proposed amendments would thus, if Articles 10a and 10b were activated, constitute a suspension of the human right to international protection. Until this type of suspension, the Constitutional Court has already been defined in Case UI-59/17 of 18. 9. 2019, in which it has pointed out that the principle of non-refoulement covered by Article 18 of the Constitution is said to prohibit torture, prohibits a person who is in real danger of being extradited to or expelled from that country in the event of his return to the country from which he came. The Court stressed that the non-refoulement principle confers on the applicant the right to enter and reside in the country. In addition, it provides an individual with the right of access to a fair and effective procedure in which the competent authority must assess whether the removal, expulsion or extradition of an individual could violate this principle. The Constitutional Court further explained that the Constitution does not provide an explanation under which the ZTW would regulate the situation in which the existence of a State would be threatened and that there would be valid reasons to justify the conclusion that the people of the Republic of Slovenia would be exposed to inhumane treatment because of the changed situation in the field of migration. In addition, in accordance with the established judgment, the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and the EU, the rights provided for in Article 18 of the URS cannot be restricted and any intervention thereof is inadmissible. The proposed amendments are therefore contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court’s decision in Case UI-59/17 of 18. 9. 2019. The bill contains even more controversial solutions. It extends the deadline for the integration of foreign families with temporary residence from one year to two year. This should prevent a number of abuse of social transfers among family members of foreigners in the first year of family reunification. However, violations and abuses are dealt with by appropriate supervision, not by adopting legislation that penalizes them in order. It is unacceptable and disproportionate to penalize all foreigners for a few abuses, especially if we know that they are people who cover many holes in the employment structure with their work; according to domestically, because they are underpaid in certain economic activities, these works are carried out by foreigners. And they would have made their situation worse by the government, which swears on family politics and for which the family is in the first place — typical Christian sanctification. One is words, the other is acts. Clearly, the families of these workers are not important. And why not because there may be different religions? In this case, even the Pharisees of self - worshiped Christian parties forget the sanctity of the family and put the laws of capitalism first. A foreign worker is only important as a labor force that will be exhausted and will be able to return to where he came from. Use and discard, we could mark the policy of the Slovenian state. While a foreign worker works, as much as possible must be aggregated into labor ghettos, his family is still a burden. In addition to the right to associate with the family, there are children who are disadvantaged in caring for both parents and providing them with all the necessary heat for healthy development. At the same time, the bill assumes all the prejudices and wrong solutions regarding migration and foreigners and demonstrates the schizophrenic position of supporters of such migration policy. The ones that scare refugees and migrants are Nate's most zealous supporters. Those who call for an airtight closure are committed to lowering taxes and contributions to the benefit of capital. They oppose the rise of minimum wages and the protection of labour rights and high environmental standards. They therefore open policies that are the main culprit for migration in other countries. Instead of putting working people, pensioners and young people on the side of capital and protecting the richest privileges, those who have been forced to flee are blamed for their poor situation. Last but not least, let me remind you that through unreasonable measures, they want to encourage birthrates, while ignoring the fact that our young people, educated people, have no future in Slovenia, because there is no access to housing or to normal, unfair forms of employment, so they are moving out into younger families with a more environmentally friendly environment. Unfortunately, these are forced labour migrants and foreigners everywhere they come. We will therefore, of course, vote against the proposal in Levika because it is harmful to people, contrary to the Constitution and the international conventions and is inconvenient. Foreigners are not our enemies who try to take over our country, they are only people who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and who live and work in our country or who want to live and work in our country. Unfortunately, however, the proposed law treats foreigners mainly as non-digatious, and we therefore strongly oppose them in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear fellow Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The fundamental point of human security and security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is the provision of national security. This is about protecting and protecting our national interests and objectives. For most citizens, security on the scale is the highest and it is right for Slovenia as a country to provide it. Today we are dealing with the twin laws, the Foreigners Act and the International Protection Act, which largely indicate Slovenia's views and solutions on the migration crisis and the implementation of international standards for the protection of the rights of applicants for international protection in Slovenia. In recent times, joint European Union solutions and emergency measures to protect the EU's external borders have also been suggested, thus helping to establish adequate control over migratory flows. In the autumn of last year, the Commission submitted a new Pact on Migration and Asylum and presented five legislative proposals in parallel with the Pact. The proposal for a law on foreigners deals with the emergence of a complex crisis in the field of migration in the event of a very large number of irregular migrants being established in a particular area of Slovenia, which would at the same time express the intention to apply for international protection. The Ministry of the Interior is under the law to propose to the Government in these cases a decision on the management and management of this complex crisis. In the context of the management and management of a complex crisis, the Government may, on a reasoned proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, decide on a measure to temporarily adapt to the implementation of the International Protection Act in a specific area of Slovenia. On the basis of a decision taken by the Government, the police would reject the intention of a foreigner to apply for international protection, provided that there are no systemic deficiencies in asylum, asylum and reception conditions in the neighbouring country from which the foreigner entered Slovenia and that the foreigner would be sent to that country. The proposal for a law limits the evidence whereby a foreigner applying for a residence permit can show sufficient means of subsistence during his stay in Slovenia. When verifying the conditions of sufficient means of subsistence in the renewal or residence permit procedures, an automatic periodic check system shall be introduced by administrative units and on the basis of the link between the Register of Foreigners and the records maintained by the tax authority. The proposal introduces a basic requirement for Slovenian language knowledge as a condition for granting a permanent residence permit issued on the basis of a five-year continuous legal residence of a foreigner in Slovenia and a condition for Slovenian language knowledge at the level, a level required for the renewal of a temporary residence permit for reasons of family reunification for full-year family members. The proposal for a law also deals more clearly with the illegal residence of a foreigner in Slovenia. From a two-phase arrangement, the imposition of obligations on illegally staying foreigners for voluntary departure is transferred to a one-phase system. Thus, the police will directly enforce the decisions of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their statement. The bill ensures the implementation of the agreements on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU in the work governing the rights relating to the continued residence of the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members. The provisions of the Directive on the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of research and higher education and the granting of temporary residence permits for studies shall also be transposed into our legal order and the possibility of mobility of these foreigners and their family members within EU countries shall be introduced. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are convinced that with the amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act we must achieve, in particular, better integration of foreigners into Slovenian society. They need to be empowered so that they can become as independent and confidently involved in everyday life as possible. In this regard, knowledge of Slovenian culture and customs as well as knowledge of Slovenian language is crucial. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that foreigners in Slovenia actively join the labour market and contribute to the development of Slovenian society. It is unacceptable to take any advantage of the measures and mechanisms of the Slovenian social state and the Slovenian health system through possible fictitious applications of residence. It must also be required that foreigners respect and act in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. It is necessary to tighten the conditions and, above all, control at all levels. Systemic supervision of employers who employ this workforce is essential. The registration of residence should only be possible with the physical presence of all those involved in the administrative procedure, solely on the basis of a lease or shown ownership. Minimum living conditions or standards for foreigners should also be laid down. Here I would also draw attention to the many problems in many municipalities that arise when children of foreigners are included in kindergartens or schools without the necessary knowledge of the Slovenian language. This is a bad experience or shock for foreign children as well as for Slovenian citizens, if there are a large number of foreigners in the same class. Preparation before entry into school, as well as regulations, would be necessary, how many foreigners can be in one department. Children with such inclusion are quite successful. Success depends heavily on the country they come from. The school’s failure is certainly more marked than it would have been if we had been preparing to participate in school before it was included and had obtained the appropriate foreword of the Slovenian language. For Members of the New Slovenia, knowledge of the Slovenian language is essential for the good co-existence and inclusion of foreigners in our society, so in the second reading we will endeavour to introduce in the draft law further requirements for the knowledge of the Slovenian language for different forms of applicants. Members of New Slovenia will support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners into the Slovenian national legal order transposes the provisions of the European Directive concerning the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of research and higher education and the granting of temporary residence permits for study purposes. It also regulates the mobility of these foreigners and their family members within the European Union. The issue of a one-year residence permit for researchers and students is also being regulated for the purpose of seeking employment or self-employment. They will be allowed to use these rights nine months after the end of the research work or study. These proposed provisions for the SAB are not disputed and are considered good in the SAB Group. The proposal also contains solutions that go back in the direction of limiting the right to asylum. Such changes in asylum legislation require caution. In 2019 the Constitutional Court had already repealed Article 10b of the Aliens Act, which provided for restrictions on the entry of foreigners into a country without individual treatment in the event of severe migration conditions. The Constitutional Judges have assessed that this is an overreaction to the rights set out in Article 18 of the Constitution. The proposed amendment to this Article, however, includes a substantively similar solution. The purpose of Article 10a and Article 10b is essentially the same as the intention of the repealed provision, except that the applicant introduces a new condition for the implementation of this measure, namely the emergence of a complex crisis. In the context of the management of the complex crisis, the Government will be able to propose to the National Assembly a decision to temporarily adapt the implementation of the Law on International Protection. This will allow legislation to limit the right to apply for asylum at the time of the declared complex crisis. The police will be able to simply dismiss the intention of a foreigner to file an application for international protection if there are no systemic deficiencies regarding the asylum procedure in the neighbouring Member State from which the alien has left. The Constitutional Court stated in its 2019 decision that the law must be prepared so that the procedures are fully clear, transparent and justified and will not allow for a mass violation of human rights, which we cannot say for the proposal prepared by the Government and before us. Nor will the effective legal protection of an individual be possible. Many organisations have already pointed to the provisions at issue in the inter-sectoral coordination phase of the bill. The bill also introduces the requirement of basic Slovenian language knowledge as a condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit. Such a condition will also have to be met by full-year family members at the entry level when they wish to extend their temporary residence permit for the purpose of family reunification. According to the new condition for obtaining the right to family reunification, there will be a two-year legal residence of a foreigner in the territory of Slovenia and not more than one year. This could have a strong impact on the provision of adequate labour, which is simply not available in Slovenia. In the SAB Group, we agree that changes in asylum law are necessary, as the system of international protection has been overloaded since 2015, but as a Member State of the European Union we are obliged to follow the common European asylum policy, so effective solutions must be sought at European Union level. We are concerned that this proposal reintroduces solutions for which there is a high likelihood that constitutional judgement will not pass, so we cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The European Union and Slovenia are trying to find answers to the migration crisis, which we can find at this time in view of the situation in 2015 and 2016, is latent and not in an acute state. Policies and ideas based on a curve of experience are also reflected in changes and additions to the Aliens Act. A clearer definition of the illegal residence of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the objectives of the proposed amendments to the law. Members of the Desus Group are considered to be an essential transition from a two-phase system of issuing acts to a single phase system or imposing obligations on illegally staying foreigners for voluntary departure. This means that the police will directly enforce the decisions of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their statement. In doing so, uniform treatment shall be provided for in respect of the time limits for voluntary departure, the periods of the entry ban, the shortening of procedures and the elimination of unnecessary administration. Slovenia will transpose the so-called recast directive with a novelty into the national legal order, which re-authorises the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of research and higher education and the granting of temporary residence permits for studies. In accordance with this Directive, short-term and long-term relocations of researchers and their family members and mobility of students within the European Union are introduced following the model directive governing the relocation of foreigners within economically connected companies. In this context, Members of the Desus Group point out the issue of a single residence permit for researchers and students for the purpose of seeking employment and self-employment. The legal solution, which provides that this right is limited to nine months after the end of the research work or study and is linked to the fulfilment of the legal conditions laid down, makes sense in our opinion. At the time of seeking employment in the Republic of Slovenia, a foreigner must meet the general conditions for granting a residence permit, obtain the consent of the competent authority to grant a single authorisation and demonstrate that he has completed a higher education or higher education study in the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that it is only through clear legislation and rules that a series of abuses that are now taking place under the pretext of false study and voluntary work and fictitious job search can be prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia, the migration crisis in 2015 and 2016 proved to be a difficult and dangerous situation for the future, as it related to an extremely wide range of natural, social and economic processes. The crisis is an unstable period or situation in which a decisive change is inevitable; or one with a clear possibility of an unwanted exit or another with a clear possibility of a desirable and positive challenge. The draft law also addresses the emergence of a crisis in the field of migration, particularly in the event that a very large number of irregular migrants would enter a particular area or several areas of the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time expressing their intention to apply for international protection. In such a case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could order the Ministry of the Interior to propose a decision on the management and management of the complex crisis. The solution proposed should take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of September 2019. In the Desus Group, we believe that the definition of a complex crisis, which is defined as a crisis that goes far beyond the normal situation and is not a state of emergency, is not sufficiently clearly defined because it leaves too broad possibilities for different legal interpretations. A foreigner applying for a residence permit must also demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence during his stay in the Republic of Slovenia. The evidence of sufficient resources will result in a new exemption from the cost of work covering the cost of food between work, transport to and from work, and the reimbursement of the costs incurred by employees in carrying out certain tasks and tasks on a business trip. These refunds do not constitute payment for work, but the employees are entitled to them in accordance with the provisions of the law governing working relations only if they actually arise. In the field of verification of sufficient means of subsistence in the extension or authorisation process, the automatic periodic check system of funds by administrative units is being introduced, based on the link between the Register of Foreigners and the records maintained by the tax authority. Members of the Desus Group are in favour of the solution they know in Denmark, namely that a foreigner must show in an account one of the banks operating in the country where he is located, which would make the possibility of checking sufficient means of survival between individual records easier. The formation of migration policy and its legal definition is not really a simple matter. The aim is to address the problem, while there is room for improvement. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u12	Nice greetings to all present! The proposal of the novel is controversial, cruel and inhuman for the Working Group on Asylum, the Labour Advisory Office, NGOs, as it exacerbates the conditions of entry and residence of foreigners. The issue needs to be put in order because no one wants mass migration from 2015. One solution is that the government could declare a so-called complex crisis if a very large number of illegal migrants or refugees entered our country, who would like to apply for international protection at the same time. The latter would undoubtedly have an impact on the reduced obligation of state authorities, other systems, subsystems or such an uncontrollable situation would have an impact on public peace, security and safeguarded conditions. It is already necessary to separate refugees from economic migrants coming from safe countries and entering our country in a criminal way. The first channel of illegal economic migration under the pretext of legality is the immigration of people from Kosovo and the second channel goes through student or work visas and straw companies. The police would have the intention of a foreigner to apply for international protection under certain conditions, since the decision takes into account the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is also not appropriate for some stakeholders to limit the evidence whereby a foreigner applying for a residence permit can show sufficient means of subsistence at the time he resides in the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, the cost of work, such as lunch, transportation, seems to us to be the right thing to do. When checking the condition, an automatic periodic inspection system by administrative units shall be introduced as a novelty. In the Slovenian National Party, we find it very important to finally introduce the knowledge condition of Slovenian language at the base level A2 as a condition for granting a permanent residence permit issued on the basis of the five-year continuous residence of a foreigner in our country. If they want to be with us, they need to know our Slovenian culture, society, customs and customs. The latter will also be like a jumpboard for more employment opportunities, but in particular we must take care of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as far as employment is concerned, even when this epidemic is over. No less important is the condition of knowledge of Slovenian language at entry level A1, which is required for full-year family members to extend the temporary residence permit due to family reunification. We also support that the waiting time for family reunification is longer from one to two years just to prevent abuse, even though this is not the case with many people. More precisely, the illegal residence of foreigners in a country where the police will be able to directly enforce the decision of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their statement. In addition to the time limit for voluntary departure, a measure to remove a foreigner and a measure to prohibit entry into the Republic of Slovenia, into the territory of the EU Member States and into the territory of the States parties to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement shall be laid down. It seems fair to us that the time limit for voluntary departure is not set for a foreigner who poses a threat to public order, public security or the security of the country in our territory and who is at risk of escape. The Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of carrying out research work and studies is also transposed into our national legal order. On the one hand, we want to further tighten the laws in this area, and on the other hand, at this time the epidemic has shown a lack of systemic protection for foreign workers, on which our economy is highly dependent. With the planned sharp changes, many families living in Slovenia will lose their residence permit and will have to be returned to their countries of origin if they are sick or not. As far as the punishment is concerned, the proposed amendments will allow the police to lock up any foreigner suspected of not participating in the deportation, if he does not have his documents, to a lesser extent. In the Slovenian National Party, we also believe that it is appropriate to extend police powers by reviewing personal papers, electronic devices and similar matters when they can be seized. The adoption of such a “law” is essential for national security, as Slovenia must not become a blind intestinal of Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u14	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! Regardless of the title of the laws that are before us today, there is really only one red thread in the National Assembly today. This is respect for the law, legal order and mass abuse of the law that we are witnessing in the Republic of Slovenia. These mass abuses of law are in fact linked to two concepts, one being legal migration and the other being illegal migration. We'll talk about them in the next marriage. When it comes to legal migration, abuse is obvious, but it wants to be tolerated. It's been going on for a long time, so now this marriage is ahead of us. How's that going? Someone comes from the south to Slovenia, submits that from such a profession, which is deficient in Slovenia, they are all Swiss. Watch out, so many welders that are now coming to Slovenia, and all these schools down in the Balkans probably don't go to school in generations. Nobody's checking it out. First mistake. Then he gets confirmation that it's really a deficient profession, goes to the administrative unit with him and gets permission. One year she's here at a company, she can be fictitious, then she meets the conditions, and she even brings her family up. Family reunion. This then takes advantage of all the social rights that they make up, have a list, usually even have a lawyer or a lawyer with them in advance, both in quotations that have good connections in administrative units and then this family stays here at the expense of taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia, and they go to work somewhere, either in Switzerland or in Germany or anywhere else. And this cycle repeats and repeats and goes into thousands and tens of thousands and incredible numbers. The result is that we, too, are countries where these people then go, because they are exploiting the Schengen area and the absence of adequate control in the Republic of Slovenia, are already looking at the outsiders. The story reminds me a lot about when I was there before 2015, and I warned 2015, look, if we don't start protecting the external borders, they will start growing fences within the Schengen. What was I listening to? From the Nazis, I don't know what! Today, ladies and gentlemen, the fences within the Schengen are closed borders. Has anyone apologized to anyone who then complained? No, no, no. We're listening to other fairy tales again. This story repeats itself cyclically in every story when we open this thing. Why? What really is the essence of the story? They're not strangers; they're not legal, they're not illegal, they're inhumanism, they're just flings we're trying here. The essence of the story is only money; money and mass abuse of the law, according to domestic crime, and what is here is the fifth column that consciously supports this crime. For if anyone knowingly tolerates and supports crime, he is also a criminal. That's the essence of the whole story. Today, the whole story is just one; the story of how to end crime and how to set up appropriate security guards in order to stop the massive abuses of the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, which then we all pay terribly dearly. We hear a lot of fun stuff about that. A little earlier, one also in this hall, that the borders should be opened, that as many migrants as possible should come. Wait! In the same breath, those who say that wages are too low. This is said to be the arrival of as many migrants as possible who will be cheap labour to be even lower wages. In short, the logic of falling down with laughter or crying – as you wish. No wonder Joseph Visarionovich Stalin called socialists in the West useful idiots! So let's go back to the subject that's ahead of us today. Now, in order for this to end or at least to be limited as far as possible, the law provides for something to protect. I wish there were more of them, and some of them I myself have proposed in the law-making process, but the law, as it is, is the most possible at this point in time. However, there is one solution which I very much welcome, this is a test of the knowledge of the Slovenian language. Even those who have previously spoken about integration as the only thing that matters and at the same time reject this law show that they either do not understand or are corrupt. Because if there is any first degree of integration, it is that the person who comes into our environment must learn to communicate. So someone who comes as a foreigner is welcome, but the first thing is to get involved in the environment, and the first thing is that he knows the language. This is nothing Slovenian, nothing special, this is something that has been catastrophicly lacking in our legislation so far, because you won't believe it, it has all the neighbours, it has all the Western Europe, it has all the countries that are being set as an example and much sharper. Look what they've got in Austria. For you to exercise any social rights, the first stage of knowledge of German is the condition for anything. And then this is getting worse, and I think we should put it even more in this law. I hope that it will be possible to prepare and adopt an appropriate amendment, because this is something for a small nation, which has its own language, its own culture, its own traditions, of exceptional importance. And once again, who talks about integration, this is the most basic in integration, which is necessary for at least one another to be able to agree, but it is also necessary for many other reasons from symbolic to very practical and also legal, because it is also difficult, for example, to carry out all legal, administrative procedures if you want a police officer if someone does not understand the language. Therefore, these conditions should be much sharper than they are now written here; and the neighbouring countries have it, ladies and gentlemen, so that no one imagines that it is not, and how they have it harshly. I'll tell you again, see how this is arranged for Austria. For use, so that you can get any practical ratings in social life, that you have the opportunity to exercise some right, that you can apply at all, you must already have a language certificate. And then it just gets worse, longer than you are, the higher you want, the higher you have to be language skills and thus greater integration, which is logical. This also reduces the possibility of various conflicts and at the same time opens up the possibility of getting to know the new resident in order to get to know the entire culture of the country there. That is why all these years have been arranged there, and in Slovenia it has not been and is now being properly regulated for the first time, and I certainly think it is necessary to say a lot of good-bye. Then the means of survival. I'm just here waiting for someone to say it's a problem. It's not! We are talking about legal migration, that is to say those who come in principle for this purpose, and if they want to exercise all the other rights, it is clear that they must have the means of survival. Well, let's see that I'm not just going to talk about Austria, where it's all arranged again and it's very controlled that there's no misunderstanding – neighbouring Italy. In neighbouring Italy, if someone comes as a migrant, working, legal migrant of course, and then brings the family also on the basis of appropriate legislation and procedures, he must prove every month, ladies and gentlemen, that he has the means to survive, cannot do what hangs all social, as it does in Slovenia. Did you know that? And you won't believe that if you can't prove that something changes, then they look at one, two, three and then it's a nice goodbye and a goodbye and a departure and it's over. Italy has a left-wing government so that no one would accidentally say it's some kind of right-wing plot. By the way, this was introduced by one of the governments that was exclusively left-wing clients in Italy. They have a very interesting logic at all; that all social rights are based on work, not just by being sent by someone, as someone still imagines that there is one Belgrade somewhere, but money is being spent. Certainly, neighbouring countries can set an example here, and at the same time, in the case of how these things are handled. Even countries where this has not been so strongly expressed in the past have already sharpened this, throughout Europe – if you go from Denmark to France, I do not know which countries I will not list them all, you will see that these things are properly arranged. Why? Because all of Europe has begun to face massive abuses of law. Things need to be named with the right name – mass abuse of rights. And by having a fifth column or, you could also say, a legal fifth column, because sometimes it's very interesting, which all the institutions are involved in this, which opens the way for one who comes, is allowed everything, and the home people to pay. But if someone says it's wrong, then it's all from a nationalist to I don't know what it is. Of course, there is a logic on the head that really rewards crime and that is in essence nothing but crime. Because, once again, all we're talking about is abuse. Or because of the deliberate misappropriation of one thing in the past in legislation, or simply because one thing was not controlled. Or, you won't believe it because one thing didn't want to happen and doesn't want to do it today. I'll be specific. We have an administrative unit in Kranj, which is a real flower. There, for example, police officers who carry out their work with migration, legal and illegal, always say, and when we broke the ice in this area at the beginning of the past autumn, a few months ago – it was said that this should not be opened at all. Well, we did it in Kranj, you won't believe that we've adopted virtually unanimous conclusions there. What's very interesting has turned out to be a lot of other things. [[…]] One thing is that the police find that someone is abusing an application, that he is not here at all, put it on an administrative unit to carry out the procedure, properly transfer a person or remove him from the register, move him to another, and the administrative unit does not carry out the procedure. But she doesn't do it for one month, and she doesn't do it for six months, and in some cases, as far as I'm aware, she hasn't done it for two years. That's direct sabotage of the law. That's why I said there was a legal fifth column obviously. And it's certainly not the Cranian unit alone, but it seems to be one more, let's say, special cases. It was very interesting, however, when she came from the Kranj Centre for Social Work to this meeting, and when we talked about how they actually have this – especially those who were already mentioned today – arranged as a network, and in that moment, when the inquiry is about to take place, they suddenly engage, the person appears, comes from abroad, if necessary, and everything is settled again, but, of course, only for that day. She literally said she used the term "mafia" to be organized as a mob. Very interesting, isn't it? But this lady doesn't belong on the right, so there's no misunderstanding, which I know is a member of the SD. So, people, everybody knows, those who have a direct job, how these things really work. It is an organised, mass abuse of law in the Republic of Slovenia under the cover of legal migration. Which makes a lot of money. According to some data, they were also presented at this session in Kranj, in the city world – you can see the video because it was made by one of Slovenia’s TVs, specifically Nova – but the tariff is to bring someone here to arrange everything for him, somewhere between €3 and €7,000. To one person, ladies and gentlemen! In short, money. And then they all serve in order, most of all those who have the most to say about social justice, but it is about people and humanism. A man would cry if he didn't know them, wouldn't he? Finally, you find that at your home address, there are some 40 pieces of such a bagel, and, of course, none of them are there, and they are on the mailbox. When you ask them how they're doing it on the IRS, you find there's no control there either. Isn't that interesting? Tax returns every euro, yo! Forget to pay one bill, they'll send you a hundred cents at one bill, sooner or later you'll get back that you've had some late interest. In this case people are at some address, there are officially no contracts, there are no payments Wait! [[…]] Who's making a fool out of someone here? And no tax action, ladies and gentlemen! And what are those addresses? In Kranj we have a nice room, you can check it out, right in the center of town, near the town of Khiselstein – 123 people are on one title! But we're not recorders. As far as I know, the Slovenian recorder is that wardrobe in Šentil, where 522 people are reported. But still, as far as I know, the IRS doesn't know there's anything wrong with it. Income is zero, expenditure is zero. In short, it's all on hand, and it's obviously fitting for someone, because it tolerates them. In some cases, however, people do live to have more in one room, which is completely inappropriate. It's an exploitation. In fact, it is both exploitation, but in the first case it is the exploitation of the system and in the second case it is the exploitation of specific people. So it's both criminal, both legally inadmissible. We should both investigate, we should both be sanctioning. In these cases, however, nothing has happened until recently. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we need substantial changes to the law. And one of the things that this law, which is before us, now foresees is regular and periodic verification in these procedures. That's what I hope will happen. Above all, I also expect to look back at things through administrative units, including the Cran administrative unit – in particular, there, even the decision on this has been taken by consensus in the City Council, ladies and gentlemen – and that things will be properly sanctioned in return. For what has happened so far has certainly not been in line with the legal order. However, excuses that the legal order does not allow proper control, if we do not know whether or not we should, of course, such excuses can be stuck to a hat. [[…]] But now it is also for those who are scribes, because it suits them so clearly in the law. In this respect, too, the law is an important move for the better. Once again, of course, it is necessary to know that legal and political knowledge also teaches that only one third depends on what the law says, and two thirds depend on what the law executes. This is said if administrative units fail to implement the law properly, there will be no effect. If there are no adequate fuses at all points in the system where abuse occurs, there will be no appropriate effect. If there is no regular inspection of the implementation hierarchy down there, there will be no corresponding effect. As a result, it is important to know who has scissors and linen in his hands. All these are, of course, things that will have to be dealt with very responsibly, because it is necessary to know that all these things are still expensive to pay indirectly and directly to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This also leads to a number of conflicts, including conflicts that may not even be imagined by anyone. I'll tell you another story from the back of this snooze treatment when we were talking. Look, this is what's going on. Those who have come many years ago, say, from Kosovo, which has already been mentioned, and have created companies here, companies, they have some of their trades, and those who are now coming in mass are in conflict and are hiding from the public. But these conflicts are so severe, it's even possible to commit more serious crimes. Because their interests are completely different. For those of you who came once, it's an interest of integration that normally works, that you live here normally. But in those who are coming in mass now, it is the interest of this system to abuse. This is one, the first, form of social parasitism in fact, because in the end it all hangs on Slovenian social. But if someone works somewhere like I did from the mechanism that I described at the beginning, I said, and then they usually work in another country, which, of course, means that all taxes, contributions and everything else are paid there. Then some here fictitiously pay off the guaranteed personal income. They've already figured that out, so it can't be controlled to prove that it's a fraud. But, ladies and gentlemen, then after this system, I wouldn't have the means to survive if he brought ten more people with him as a family union. That's why it's so important. Of course, it is important that these laws are then implemented rationally, that things are viewed realistically and that, above all, things finally begin to be called by the right name. If the law, ladies and gentlemen are respected, I say this many times in illegal migration, but in this case it is also legal. If the entire legal order were consistently implemented, if the law, the rule of law, were consistently respected, the rule of law, then all of these aspects, all of this crime, would not occur. Here is the first and fundamental question, if we all had one common point in this House, this common point should be that the law must be respected and that the constitutional order must be respected and that it must be respected, if anything, the fundamental constitutional norm that the law applies to all, in the same manner and for all must be implemented in the same manner. No double criteria, no exceptions, no positive discrimination in these cases can occur. The law applies to everyone. It should also be implemented as it must be borne in mind that Slovenia is small, that Slovenia must maintain its identity, its language, its people. If anyone doubts this, read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The existence of the State of Slovenia is inseparably bound by the Constitution itself, according to the fundamental constitutional standard with the existence of the Slovenian people, because it is an inalienable right. And the country is our home together. As a result, those who live in a home country have the right to decide who enters the country and under what conditions. Integration is necessary in such cases when someone lives here. It needs to be accelerated, and solutions that are in law must also be directed in this direction. From this point of view, the law is an important, very good move forward, and the SDS will be unitedly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Nik Prebil will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u16	President, thank you very much. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The first of the two laws that we are going to consider today deals with a rather similar subject. And this first is the Aliens Act, or its amendments and additions. You could say fat novels. The Aliens Act is a so-called mother code that governs the situation of foreigners. And certain matters are all different and contradictory; every foreigner must have a legitimate reason to enter, transit and reside in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what foreigners get through a leaked procedure. As long as they do not have it and are in our country illegally, appropriate procedures for voluntary departure or removal of foreigners are under way. However, if a foreigner asks for international protection or expresses only his intention to do so, the Law on International Protection shall no longer apply to him as soon as he does. And this is where the heart of the problem lies. This is all a matter of sensitive procedures, many of which will or willfully interfere with the violation of certain rights and procedures, which are very widely regulated by international conventions and European law. We have committed ourselves to just a number of conventions and respect for European law and international law when we join the European Union. In the LMŠ, we are of course of the opinion that it is promised and appropriate to respect, unless otherwise agreed at the common level. Once again, as is customary for this government, the proposal for this law, under the cover of the implementation of a directive governing the situation of researchers and students, introduces quite a few innovations, which, like the amendment of the International Protection Act, which we will deal with later, will make the situation of foreigners, officials, particularly the police, easier to refuse them back to the countries from which they came. Also, foreigners will find it harder to obtain and maintain conditions for their stay in Slovenia. Let me start with this first part, i.e. the implementation of the Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of au pair and the Directives which re-authorise temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out work in the field of study in the national legal order. With amendments to the law in this area, the Ministry wants to make the Republic of Slovenia more attractive to researchers and students from third countries, since the latter can bring further development and progress, and among other things the proposal follows the idea of more effective integration of foreigners, so they will be required to have a certain knowledge of the Slovenian language, which is also right. But the issue here stands in principle, of course, if there was no other objective in the background; a goal that is only linked to the ideological and political game of the largest government party. Therefore, the law also has some extremely controversial provisions which are added outside the necessary adoption of the Directive of the European Union into our legal system. Much of the explanation of the bill belongs to Articles 5 and 6 which are crucial for the purpose of legal and political debate. The law reintroduces a regulation that has already been repealed by the Constitutional Court in 2017, which is the possibility of introducing a so-called complex crisis, which, in a new way, will be able to do what the government itself can and thus exclude the application of the provisions of the Law on International Protection. And that's actually the most controversial part. This proposal clearly shows parallels to the current health crisis in which we are, as in this case, the government has also acquired all the leverage to manage the crisis. The purpose is therefore perfectly clear and the second fact is whether it is justified. As a party to the political environment, we can understand the need of every single government, which, when faced with an increase or a strong increase in the number of irregular migrants or greater refugee waves, wants to control the situation and then needs to respond quickly and effectively. We must prevent matters and abuses, and no matter what the priority is, our country and its people, and that is why this is clear in the LMŠ. But the fact that we are no longer facing such numbers today and that we are also being protected by European institutions offers you an answer to the previous question when I spoke about the Government's intentions and why this legislation is being adopted right now and in this government. That the measure is full, the Ministry of the Interior, led by Aleš Hojs, adds to the regime of the complex crisis in a worse way than has been abolished by the Constitutional Court, since all powers are transferred to the Government and to such or so great powers, and the Government cannot, after constitutional regulation as executive power. The Constitution is clear and clear as well as the European Convention on Human Rights. Certain rights may be limited to the extent that it is necessary to protect citizens' health and safety on the basis of the fact that the measures taken are proportionate. Further, as regards the proposal for a law, it was necessary for me to point out the following. With the possible introduction of certain supplements, it will be very difficult for a migrant to prove that he personally faces a real risk of torture, inhuman or degrading behaviour, as a very high standard has been set, while at the same time he will have to prove that he was unable to apply for international protection for justified reasons in a neighbouring country. This is one of the highest threshold standards in the European Union with the aim of total rejection. It is also relevant to provide that a decision against the rejection of an application by a migrant for international protection in such cases is possible to appeal to the Ministry but does not preclude enforcement. Thus, a foreigner, for whom a police officer will assess that he does not meet the conditions for international protection, will be returned to the country where he came from, even though it may later prove unjustified in the appeal procedure. The latter is particularly problematic in terms of the so-called aspect of migrant chains, as some media have recently pointed out. Next. The police in the proposal, after a new one, are fully left to our discretion as to whether there are obstacles to an application for international protection in the neighbouring country. Is the police qualified for this, who will judge it, and who will answer when and if abuse occurs? These and many other issues are raised in such provisions, and the police, despite their professionalism – I must stress this – do not have the basic competence to judge such a thing. This can be done only by an expert commission or perhaps by the Government on the proposal of such a commission with a decision. In addition to all the pressing issues and certain contentious provisions, the law also amends certain matters relating to the knowledge of the Slovenian language and family reunification with the means necessary for survival. Of course, even until the implementation of the directive in this area is necessary due to the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union. It should be noted that this bill is also largely inconsistent with stakeholders and non-governmental organisations and that a number of comments on the law, although good ones, have not been taken into account. But this is something we're used to; whether it's our way or not, they say in this government. The law in such a form will almost ensure that it is unconstitutional, since the Constitutional Court has already repealed part of the law with similar provisions. In the LME, we believe that some changes are necessary, particularly at the level of the European Union. And the desire for quick and effective procedures is fully understandable and also legitimate. Let me finish. As many point out, all the experience so far shows that tightening asylum legislation will bring additional problems instead of solutions. Instead of involving people in the existing system, it created new categories of illegality to which the state apparatus then responds with increasingly new forms of repression. And that's bad, because we're all spinning together in a vicious circle, because we're not able to figure out solutions, appropriate solutions. And regardless of our attitude towards foreigners and regardless of our political definition, it is clear that, with such a proposal, Slovenia enters a society of countries that have, well or not, a more restrictive view of migration and consequently a more repressive policy. But this is a matter of ruling power. So instead of looking for solutions, you're looking for exacerbations. Why? Because this is your policy on an integrated level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today's debate on the various aspects of migration resolution at European Union level and particularly at national level is being reopened, both by articles and by the content of the comprehensive amendment of the Foreigners Act. However, the different perspectives on addressing this issue will certainly be re-examined in today's general debate, and if the conclusion is reached that the amendment is appropriate for further consideration, this will also continue on the home working body. From the explanation of the novel under consideration, the Government sets out the reasons why the novel is necessary and why it needs to be supported. As is customary, the regulation of foreign issues in national countries is strongly linked to the policy of the European Union and, in this regard, to the adopted Directives and Regulations which Member States implement in their legal order. In addition to this, we are also faced with the fact that the United Kingdom has left the European Union after months of negotiations. The proposed amendment ensures the implementation of the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community in the work which regulates the rights relating to the continuation and issuance of residence documents for the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members who will legally reside in Slovenia after the transitional period. By means of the 2016 Directive, 801, the Republic of Slovenia wants to become more attractive to third-country nationals wishing to carry out research work in the European Union and their family members. At the same time, the proposed law seeks to improve and simplify entry conditions for students who come to Slovenia for the purpose of study and education. New types of uniform residence and work permits and temporary residence permits are new. This would give us a uniform residence permit for job search and self-employment for researchers who have completed research work in Slovenia. The same is true for students who have graduated from one of the study programmes and would join in volunteer work in Slovenia. The solutions proposed for the citizens of the United Kingdom and the regulation of the situation of those persons who want to carry out scientific research and study in Slovenia are generally not problematic. Problems and differences arise in the resolution of other forms of foreign immigration into Slovenia, this is at the time of illegal entry into Slovenia. The proposed solutions, the proposal states, provide for a clearer definition of the illegality of the residence of foreigners in Slovenia. Two-phase arrangements for the implementation of acts or the imposition of obligations on illegally staying foreigners for voluntary departures shall be introduced into a single phase system. The police will directly implement the decisions of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their ruling. There is also a uniform procedure for the time-limits for voluntary departure and the period of prohibition of entry. The recommendations of the European Commission shall be taken into account and return decisions issued by other Member States of the European Union shall also be recognised. At this point, I would point out the solutions relating to the creation of mega-datasets created by the public authorities and the storage of these data, as the information officer also pointed out. It also raises the question of the appropriateness of the proposed Article 5 of the Law amending Article 10a, after a new talk on the complex crisis in the field of migration, and Article 6 amending Article 10b – action in the complex crisis in the field of migration. On the basis of this proposal, the Government, in the context of crisis management and management of a complex crisis, will be able to act on the basis of a reasoned and reasoned proposal from the Ministry responsible for internal affairs by closing the state border for a maximum of six months. After this proposal, the government reports monthly to the National Assembly. Let me remind you that since the unannounced resignation of the Minister, it is reasonable to ask whether many of the Minister's actions are in the interests of the State at all. All too often, it also gives the impression that it is the pursuit of some other, perhaps only higher party interests. It should be stressed, however, that, following the current regulation of the Government to the National Assembly, it is proposed that a measure should be taken to prevent the difficult functioning of institutions and the provision of its vital functions, in view of the changed situation in the area of migration, public order and internal security. However, the National Assembly shall, by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members, decide on the proposed measure, as well as on the extension of the measure for a further six months. The extensive explanation of Articles 5 and 6 of the Law on Foreigners and Indications of the various acts, documents and, last but not least, of the Constitutional Court's decisions concerning Article 10b of the Law on Foreigners does not explain why the Government itself is taking action on a complex crisis in the field of migration, which, according to the Government, does not depend solely on the number of migrations, nor does it deprive the National Assembly of the right to decide on measures which would allow the State border to be closed in an airtight manner. As I have already announced in the introduction, it is an extremely difficult and extensive content of amendments to the law, dissecting the amendment of the law according to the articles, when presenting the position of the Group of Members, I do not think it appropriate. Not even because of the time debate, there would be no time to discuss and respond to Members and Members. Even because we are Social Democrats, we are the ones who, through the proposed laws, say how we feel about the content under consideration, even though our opinions differ. With the experience of individuals on the one hand, human rights, on the other hand, and understanding the problem, we believe that an appropriate solution can be found. We have repeatedly stressed that we are aware of migration-related issues, and we are not least aware of the difficulties faced by people living directly along illegal migration routes. And that's exactly how to provide people with safe residence and migrants with adequate treatment. Your Honor! Migrations are part of our lives and have taken place at different times because of different circumstances with different intensity. And since this is a problem for all of Europe, we expect European policy to find common solutions as soon as possible in the areas of migration, foreign policy, refugee policy and international protection. The current situation is such that the view of this issue is highly contradictory and is too often overly affectionate on the one hand, and on the other hand, it becomes a clear expression of intolerance or hatred toward people from the other. Regardless of how this debate is going to take place today, Europe will still remain a promised land for many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u20	The National Assembly at this meeting of the so-called Troika of Laws, which regulates the issue of foreigners, including employment and the granting of international protection, deals with two novelties, namely the Foreigners Act and the Law on International Protection, and not the novelty of the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners. Although the government has proposed to the National Assembly that at least the amendments to the law on foreigners and the employment of foreigners be considered at the same meeting due to their substantive connection, Members requiring today's general discussion have decided differently. We therefore point out at this point that the legislative procedure for dealing with the said troika will need to be planned in the future by final adoption at the same meeting, as at least the two will need to be published simultaneously in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia or to ensure that they enter into force at the same time. If I return to the amendment of the Aliens Act, which was introduced into the legislative procedure as the first of the three mentioned three, we would like to point out to the SMC that the original purpose of the amendments to this law of transposition of the European Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of au pair. The fundamental objective is to facilitate the entry of third-country nationals coming to the EU for the purpose of carrying out research work and studies. In addition, it is worth noting another important content set of this novel, which is linked to the so-called brexit. The amendment provides for the implementation of the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community in its work, which regulates the rights relating to the continuation and issuance of residence documents to the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members who will legally reside in the Republic of Slovenia at the end of the transitional period of 31 December 2020 and intend to continue to reside in the Republic of Slovenia after the transitional period. As you know, we are delaying these changes for British citizens, but it is necessary to be honest and say that the guilt lies not with the proposer or the minister, but also partly with the SMC Group, because we have insisted since spring 2020 that the proposed solutions are both in the Foreign Law and in the International Protection Act, which are presented, in our opinion, apparent violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the asylum law established by international conventions, EU law and the case law of the EU Court of Justice cannot be the subject of a decision in the Government. The right to asylum is a fundamental right established by the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the international obligation of the States Parties, including EU Member States. The EU has incorporated the conditions to be met for obtaining international protection into its legal body. The right to asylum is laid down in Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 19 prohibits collective expulsion and protects individuals from the removal, expulsion or extradition of a State where there is a serious risk of death, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. EU Member States have adopted a common European asylum policy, which is still in force until the new migration pact is adopted. In our view, Slovenia cannot follow Hungary's approach, which has been dealt with several times by the EU Court of Justice. Last May, the Court ruled that the Hungarian detention of asylum seekers in camps in the border area could constitute a violation of European legislation and last December ruled that Hungary was in breach of European legislation on the recognition of asylum and the return of illegal refugees, namely the restriction of access to international protection procedures, the irregular detention of applicants for such protection, the detention of illegally staying third-country nationals to a border area and the failure to respect the right of applicants to remain in the territory of the State after refusing an application for an expiry of the time limit for the lodging of a remedy against such refusal. We also drew attention to the comments made and proposals made by NGOs, and additional discussions were held in the summer and also in the early autumn of last year with both NGOs and legal experts on these proposed solutions. On this basis, some amendments have been made in the current Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners and the Law on International Protection. However, some are also included in the explanations, which, according to our assessment, is equally important, as they eliminate any ambiguity or any later ambiguity that would go to the detriment of the applicants. Quantitatively, there are some 20 comments and proposals. In the SMC, we are also aware today, as in the previous mandate, that this is an extremely sensitive area where human rights and freedoms are weighed and security on the other hand. The Republic of Slovenia has always supported and actively cooperated in the search for common solutions at European Union level. However, as long as there are no real solutions or agreements on the migration pact, we as a state have a sovereign right and a duty to take measures that allow for the smooth functioning of the country even in the event of disproportionate pressure on the asylum system and also in preventing the abuse of the system. In order to increase the number of applications submitted for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia and the procedures detected, certain amendments and additions to the legislation are urgently needed to allow for more effective implementation and to further prevent abuses of international protection procedures. In 2015, there were only 277 asylum seekers. Two years later 2 000 868 and 2019 3 000 821. The increase is more than obvious and it must be said that such a trend is not observed in all countries of the European Union. In 2019, with these 3 000 800 requests, as many as 3 000 273 procedures were suspended from this total, 352 applications were rejected and 128 were rejected and 85 statuses recognised. After the absolute number of requests, although Slovenia is only in the second half of the Member States, it is also necessary to take account of the size of the country or the number of its population. The key question for the country is whether the asylum system is capable of responding and whether it is in the vast majority of cases of abuse. The average duration of the international protection procedure is 44 days until the decision of the Ministry is issued. For the procedures in which the Ministry decided substantively, i.e. that the application was granted or rejected, the procedure lasted 328 days. The average duration of the procedure for international protection to a legally completed procedure shall be 63 and 502 days for the substantive decision. Last year, there were 3 000 276 applications for international protection, which is slightly less than in 2019, but of this, 2 000 227 proceedings were halted because of voluntary abandonment, which is more than obvious evidence of abuse. We have therefore also agreed in the SMC that the Republic of Slovenia shall use all legal possibilities to adopt from other Member States or third countries such a number of applicants for international protection as may offer them effective and rapid procedures, reception and the conditions for inclusion in Slovenian society, while respecting the internationally binding and constitutionally protected Institute of International Protection established by the common European asylum policy for all persons seeking protection in its territory. Given the long-term search for compromise at European Union level and also the increasing number of applicants for international protection, it is particularly important to avoid the abuse of the system from a procedural point of view as well as from the point of view of ensuring reception conditions and the proportionate sanctioning and violation of the rules. Otherwise, an Article 10b is crucial for the SMC in the New Aliens Act, for which the Minister of the Interior of our kind was responsible in the previous term and the content of which the Constitutional Court has already judged. In the SMC, we have addressed the question to the proposer, as well as to coalition partners, or, if you wish, the request, whether or not the proposed solutions are constitutionally and conventionally consistent, in particular in terms of individual treatment, possible violations of the prohibition of torture and inhumane behaviour or whether or not the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 18 September 2019 takes sufficient account of the proposed solutions insofar as it relates to the rejection of applications for international protection in crisis situations. In that decision, the Court confirmed the absolute nature of the principle of non-refoulement as a constitutional and conventional standard. The surrender of an individual to another Member State must also provide for an accurate and individual assessment of the individual situation. The competent authorities and courts shall, where the applicant claims that the EU Member State is not specifically a safe country for him, assess all circumstances relevant in respect of respect for the principle of non-refoulement. However, in order to respect the principle of non-refoulement, the concept of a secure third country should be applied only if a third country expressly ensures that it allows entry and access to a fair and effective procedure, or if there is an obligation for a State surrendering an individual to grant access to the procedure in accordance with the basic principles and guarantees required by the principle of non-refoulement in the event of refusal of entry into a third country. In general, access to a fair and effective procedure in which it is assessed whether its direct or indirect return to the country of origin could constitute a breach of the principle of non-refoulement is guaranteed to the applicant in at least one country. The proposed regime should provide that if the Republic of Slovenia refuses entry into a neighbouring EU Member State, the Republic of Slovenia will itself ensure access to a fair and effective procedure. We have also drawn attention to the circumstances under which a foreigner may challenge the safety of a neighbouring EU Member State which must not be bound by a very high standard in practice. The initial condition was that the danger would clearly manifest itself, which would be linked to an additional cumulative condition, that it would not be possible to apply for international protection for justified reasons in that country. In addition, even if a foreigner had been able to demonstrate these circumstances unequivocally from the police, the original solutions protected him only by sending him to the border crossing, but they did not protect him from being sent to a neighbouring Member State. Therefore, the insensibility of the complaints is also disputed. The question was also raised as to who and by what procedure will determine that in the neighbouring EU Member State from which the alien entered, there were no systemic shortcomings in the procedure of international protection and the conditions for admission of applicants which could lead to a risk of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment. Therefore, as has already been mentioned, we have persisted for more than half a year and have achieved that the proposals of the Ministry of Justice and our Minister of Mag were taken into account in the interdepartmental debate and later in the coalition coordination. Lilliana Kozlovich, as well as the SMC Group, shall, as far as possible, ensure that the provision, taking into account that provision, is still achieving its basic and original objective of managing mass migration. We in the SMC, with the exception of the majority, to declare a complex crisis, because this is a decision on the temporary limitation of the constitutional right to asylum, but in our opinion on activation should be decided by the National Assembly, not by the Government: and, with the second exception of this non-sustainability, which I have talked about, we are pleased that, after long-term coordination, we have achieved an emphasis on individual treatment of foreigners, that the police will not achieve that which alone identifies systemic shortcomings in the neighbouring country and achieve a reduction in the evidence standard for a foreigner. In the SMC, however, we are detained in terms of non-sustainability, but it must be acknowledged that, by facilitating the conditions for lodging a request for protection, this is far less fateful. This is also in the light of the latest judgment of the EU Court of Justice against Hungary. In any case, she will have to tell her own story here, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, in the Law on International Protection, it was crucial for us to achieve that the applicant followed our comments on the suspension, so that the complaint would not hold back the deportation. However, the deadline of three days for the applicant to appeal is still short because it raises the issue of the effectiveness of the remedy. Otherwise, the controversy revolved largely over legal remedies, deadlines, new or renewed complaints to the Supreme Court, proportionality in the punishment itself, and so forth. In the SMC Group, we have warned the coalition partners that we support the basic objectives and objectives and the proposed solutions in the majority and that we will support all three novels or three at first reading. As I said below, it will be necessary to listen to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and, therefore, also to reserve the right to make any further corrections if they prove necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one has the word Rudi Bear, the preparation of Alexander Reberšek and then Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The red thread of the debate on the two amendments to the laws, so it has been heard from the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is and must be respect for the law and, of course, we can all fully agree on that. Now, if it's true, it's another question. In the wake of the amendment of the Foreigners Act, we have a problem before us, I will not say disputed, I will say problematic, part of the law that speaks of announcing, managing the so-called complex crisis. This is the part partially annulled by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2019. The Constitutional Judges repealed Article 10b of the Aliens Act, which, in the event of acute migration conditions, provides for the restriction of the entry of foreigners into the country or allows the rejection of foreigners without individual treatment. This is part of a law that stipulated that the police at the border could refuse all asylum applications without individual treatment. Such a decision was taken by the Constitutional Judges with 8 votes in favour and 1 against. What else did the Constitutional Judges record? They agree that exceptional human rights restrictions are possible in an emergency, but they should be proportionate. In addition, the National Assembly should have declared the most extraordinary situation in advance and, in the opinion or opinion of the Constitutional Court, it would not have justified the total prohibition of asylum applications. Such was the decision of the Constitutional Court and it was interesting that the policy did not comment much at that time in autumn 2019. Perhaps the president's interesting comment at the time is the biggest opposition party, Janez Janša, who wrote that the left majority in the Constitutional Court had annulled the crisis protector in the Foreigners Act just at a time when, for the sake of the Turks, we are again threatened by the migrant-refugee wave, treason and anti-Slovenian leftist policy. So again, something was brewed by the leftist, in the core itself, so within the Constitutional Court, which, according to this party's belief, operates according to political affiliation. But this is nothing new, because even now that the Slovenian Democratic Party is in power, there are also attacks against the Constitutional Court, once because they do not like that the Constitutional Court is involved in the weekly verification of the effectiveness of anti-Korona measures, secondly, the Constitutional Court, by suspending the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces Financing Act, has even prevented the purchase of a transport aircraft for the import of vaccines and could still find much on this topic. We do not believe in the List of Marjan Šarc, and we are against the issue of migration and asylum applications being dealt with by left or right methods. But here I am convinced that there is no left or right method, there is simply some view of the situation mainly from the point of view of law, international law and the constitutional framework of the Republic of Slovenia, and so we have also faced a severe migration crisis in the period from summer to autumn in 2019, which, given the pressure of migrants to borders, was significantly greater than it is now. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to regulate this area in the same way as the Constitutional Court has already ruled that it is unconstitutional. If you are doing something the same all the time, then the result is the same all the time and warned that it is a re-establishment of an unconstitutional situation in the management of the so-called complex crisis, for the time being the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is deaf, but of course not all things are delayed, we are only at the beginning of the consideration of this amendment of the law and further, if it is found that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, it is possible to correct a number of things. For the sake of our understanding, of course, we are not opposed to this area being settled in the letter of Marjan Šarc. However, the Ministry of the Interior, led by Minister Boštjan Poklukar at the time, announced the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2019 that the Ministry of the Interior would respect the Constitutional Court's judgment. And there are no big dilemmas here, they will respect it and look for different solutions within the constitutional framework. That's not what happened right now. Otherwise, the minister says they're solving this differently, but we haven't noticed any difference, except for the so-called complex crisis being proclaimed by the government. At least this was otherwise resolved in this law that this role belonged to the National Assembly, and now the Government is taking this role, as in all other areas of so-called crisis management in the Republic of Slovenia. This is one of our biggest objections to this solution, which is before us, that this power of the National Assembly is transferred to the Government and that the management of emergency situations in many areas is concentrated only within the Government and only within the Government. It is therefore difficult to determine at this point whether we are supporters or opponents of the new law. Above all, we call on the Ministry of the Interior to listen to migration and constitutional law experts and to seek constitutional solutions in matters that have already been highlighted in the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The text is by Alexander Reberšek and will be discussed by Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. With the amendment of the law, we will strengthen the requirements of Slovenian language knowledge before issuing a permanent residence permit and prior to issuing a temporary residence permit for family reunions. It is very important that a foreigner who resides in Slovenia learns the language of the country where he resides. So far, foreigners who have joined their family members have had the right of association after one year of residence in the Republic of Slovenia, and the amendment of the law will exacerbate this condition so that family members can join after two years of residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Foreigners have also proved so far through salaries, which also take into account various supplements, lunches, travel and transport to work, including diaries, and this will also increase with the amendment of the law, as it will only take into account salaries without allowances, which in practice means that a foreigner will simply have to have a higher salary if he wants to bring his family to Slovenia. In fact, it is currently happening that a foreigner brings a wife and children to Slovenia, a wife does not work, and because of her husband’s low salary, they benefit from more social transfers and are in some way a burden to the country. And if under the new law a stranger wants to bring his wife to us, he will simply have to have a higher salary because the supplements I mentioned earlier will no longer be taken into account. This means that the social transfers received by this family will be reduced. With the constant arrival of foreigners working for a minimum wage, the wages of our employed citizens simply cannot grow and we are doing ourselves a bear service in some way. It seems to me that in the integration of foreigners the most important knowledge of Slovenian culture and also of customs and of course of language skills, while ensuring that foreigners are actively involved in the labour market and contribute to the development of the Slovenian economy. However, it is unacceptable to use any measures taken by the Slovenian social state mechanisms and the Slovenian health system through possible fictitious residence applications, so it is also necessary to set minimum housing standards in order to avoid what happened years ago in Šentil, where 547 people were registered at one address. However, today's legislation strengthens the conditions for foreigners, and I will endeavour to introduce additional requirements for the knowledge of Slovenian language for all these applicants in the second reading. The fact is that migration has always been and that migration will always be, and we are obliged to solve the problems and, above all, to protect our national cash transfers and to increase social transfers payments, to increase social aid payments in order for those who need this social assistance to receive social transfers, but not for those who exploit them who can work in some way, do not want to, because this system allows them to do so. That is why today’s law goes in the right direction. I must respond somehow and touch the big words of Ambassador Violeta Tomić. This is the Member who once gave Members to the minimum, however, I must touch on her words about solidarity and acceptance and her cynical speech about Christians. Mrs Violeta, it can be solidarity in words and your solidarity should in practice be exercised by the State with taxpayers' money. In this way, everyone can be solidarity. It's a little harder to be solidarity in your actions. Who actually raises funds for people living in difficult situations, for example, in Africa? Slovenian Karitas and Slovenian Christians. Who are helping Africans with their hands to build their own houses, their own cities, to care for their own lives? Pedro Opeka and many other Christian missionaries. You know, Violeta, it's easy to spread out about solidarity in Parliament, and something else is to help people where they need help the most, at their very source. And while we're at it, people need to be helped on the spot, the money we spend on illegal migration would be much more helpful to the development of people who are facing terrible poverty in African countries. Promoting irregular migration poses great risks to the lives of migrants on their way, while at the same time it does not save the poorest, as these poor remain in their countries. Means, attention and assistance are thus not directed to those who need it most. Experience also points to major problems in the integration of a large number of immigrants from entirely different civilizational backgrounds. We are probably all aware that millions from Africa want to be in Europe and that we will never be able to meet everyone, so, as I said before, the problem must be solved on its own. All the way to the end. One number and six letters, Africa 5 to 1919 is worth much more than all the words of the Left about solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u26	Please note, Mr Rebršk, that if he is already talking about a person who, because of the other obligations he has in the National Assembly, is not available here or is not in the Chamber of the National Assembly, then let me say, if he is here, you can face him, you can talk, but it is not right to talk about a person when he is not here in the National Assembly in the Grand Chamber. [[…]] Because we have had such cases several times and it was constantly Mr Reberšek who was talking about Violeta Tomić when she was not here in the hall. I don't mind if you two talk, but talk to each other when Violet's here, and you'll be able to confront her for an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u27	A colleague is not involved in discussing a Member whether he is in the Assembly Hall or not. You probably know that. This has nothing to do with the application of the procedural proposal you have announced and I suggest that you stick to the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, not just so. We continue the debate. There's been a change. The text will be given to Predrag Baković and will be discussed by Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u28	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Statistics show, but not only statistics, but also the real picture and the facts we face in our country show that many procedures for asylum are being misused. For if we do see numbers, how many procedures have been completed, how many have not been completed because the applicant has left Slovenia, then, clearly, it is a signal that indicates that something needs to be changed in some way. Today, in fact, I am going to discuss in some way the most about the proposal of Article 10a and Article 10b, which may be in some way in this national assembly and may be looking for shortcomings or perhaps even contentious things. As far as these two things are concerned, I can say here that I understand this, but I may be wrong, but I understand this as if it is not an immediate return, but the police will have to check whether there are reasons under paragraph 10(b) of the fourth indent. That is to say, at that time, it is necessary to determine before that person returns whether there are systemic deficiencies in the international protection procedure, whether in the procedure a foreigner has likely and weighedly demonstrated that he personally in the neighbouring country is in danger of being tortured, whether the medical situation of a foreigner is such that it clearly prevents the return to a neighbouring country and whether it goes beyond the appearance and other circumstances of a unaccompanied minor. This, of course, comes into account when these people do not have personal documents and their identity is somehow impossible to identify. Now, as far as I know, people who do not have documents in each country on their way to the crossing somehow submit applications for asylum in some way, but under different names and surnames. There are, of course, other additional possibilities for identifying identity, such as fingerprints and so on, but this may be a problem. If I look at this from the point of view of the police themselves, I could say that it is a good thing that the police in these cases will not carry out infringement proceedings because these procedures have so far been very burdensome for police officers, but have not been successful because usually the perpetrators of the offences have not had the money or it has not been paid and the procedures have been very long. Even when I was working, I can tell you that we didn't go to bed for 24 hours because we were doing these procedures on these things. Of course, the essential condition that paragraphs 10a and 10b, which should have been said in the beginning, put me in this direction. In fact, a complex crisis is an essential condition for the application of these two articles. What is the complex crisis, in fact? Perhaps I, too, am somewhat disturbed or am thinking that the Government should be the one to determine when a complex crisis is to occur, and I would rather see that it is decided by the National Assembly, but I think the Constitutional Court has once said something about it. So in a way we're going to have to think about this thing so that the 2015 situation can happen again and it surprises any government, one or the other, or the third. And then of course we have to somehow have some way out or, I'll say, exits. I'm not going to say that this is the best or that it's okay, but you have to think this way. What exactly is a complex crisis? We've already written this down. We also have protocols. This is when fundamental social values are threatened when it comes to the unsuspecting of such a crisis, when uncertainty arises, when time pressure is also involved, quick decision-making is necessary, there is an unpredictable future, the inability to manage the situation, which of course requires the implementation of certain specific measures. The factors of the complex crisis are also those that threaten the current structures, affect the population, endanger human lives and cause harm. So a complex crisis is not the situation we have today, if I understand it as well, nor can it ever be. As long as we have separate illegal passages, as long as we have the situation as we have it, a complex crisis is not in sight. Of course, I believe that if the events of 2015 happen again, however, there can be such a complex crisis that someone will have to determine at that time. Of course, the government, whoever it is then, is more operational than we are. In some ways, there may still be legal mills and different lawyers to grind, but in some ways this is the best operational one, and then we should not think about the political orientation of the government, but actually how this problem needs to be solved. There are also certain security guards, as I see from these two articles. One of these is that the Government reports to the National Assembly on these measures of implementation of Article 10b every month. Now, this is actually not a terrible protector in itself, but it is also right for me to write down the fact that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees and the European Commission are informed of the reasons and use and of the termination of Article 10.b. Of course, the other guards are also those who will be identified in connection with Article 2, all four indents that I have previously presented. As it may be said, I may have doubts about how and in what way and who declares this complex crisis. It is true, however, that in some ways we need to have a starting point and perhaps a way out if such problems arise. Perhaps it is right to talk about this, we are only at the first stage of adopting this legislation, and I believe that there will be more proposals. She's probably going to tell her own story about some other law-and-law work and someone else. I am so looking forward to this debate in the future, and to see how we are going to end it. So much for now. Thank you very much. Yeah, there's something else I might have, a question. In the event that this complex crisis arises, Mr Minister, I am interested – if you may know or perhaps if someone else can respond to it – it is determined that the police will not deal with these offences in case of offences, but will return. I want to know what it's like to commit crimes. We know that when an enforcer is caught, then these people who illegally cross the state border act to some extent as victims or at least as witnesses. Will the criminal procedure be carried out? How will these illegal migrants be heard then in the event of a complex crisis in the event that these people return? What treatment and status will these illegal migrants then have to process the perpetrator of the crime who committed the illegal crossing of the state border? If I have made myself clear, I hope that the question is clearly raised. That's what I'm interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, yes, this debate has gone in the right direction after my assessment. I am also glad that she has come, I would say, from this left side of Parliament. Look, just like you said, it's kind of holding. We have this problem because we have in the constitution, as we know, the possibility of declaring a state of emergency or war. In fact, one and the other is declared by the National Assembly, except where the National Assembly cannot be operational or operational. This can be announced by the President of the State, but also in the next phase this matter goes back to the National Assembly for Confirmation. We think it was our intention that the complex crisis could not be at the level of the state of emergency or the state of war. So we've estimated that this is one degree lower, so we've also anticipated that the government would decide on this issue, precisely because of the 2015-2016 situation. Of course, as you rightly said, we have installed these security guards inside, so reporting, I don't know, we can also add subsequent confirmation of the National Assembly, and that would probably work. However, we also, of course, predicted that it was reported not only to us, but also, as you said, to the Council. It is clear that the answer to your question, which binds to wrongdoing, here we followed one very simple logic. Of course, it's not possible to grant forgiveness for crimes. So it's going to process, just like it's right to process. It is also because the police have warned that in such cases there may be a multitude of offences that cannot be processed physically. More importantly, the fact that it is not possible to recover is that when you give someone a wrong, then it is somewhere else after a while or it is returned and so on, it is virtually impossible to recover it. Therefore, we have estimated that in this case, if I say wrongly, we could allow this, under the terms of the abolition, or that in this case offences would not be processed, because this would only mean an additional administration in a situation which is already so acute. As a matter of fact, such forgiveness cannot be granted for crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Replica, Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u32	You probably didn't understand what I was going to ask. I understand you can't fire the perpetrators of crimes. And at that time, the procedure must be carried out. These people that this person brought through, in this case, they can act as witnesses. If we remove them immediately, then we no longer have any evidence, the court cannot base its judgment on the statements of these people who paid this man, for example, for the illegal crossing of the state border. In some way — whether you will hold them off or not in this case — so that you can process the matter easily. That was actually my question, if you can answer it. I believe that's a professional question you probably don't know. Or maybe another time we'll say something on this subject. That's all I care about. Or maybe on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u34	In this case, we did not interfere with any other legislation. It is also somehow envisaged that those who are a credible witness under other legislation will not be returned. They should be detained, given that they have to testify in the criminal proceedings. That was the suggestion. We didn't specifically define ourselves here, because we think it's already arranged there anyway, and there's no need to write it here in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word, and Boštjan Koražija is prepared. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! And a nice greeting to all those who accompany the work of Parliament! It is true that today is aimed at two agenda items, two amendments to laws relating to foreigner, refugee, migrant and other terms. I note that very much, even in this House, these terms are mixed. In fact, the specific law that is now under consideration speaks of foreigners, the Law on Foreigners. We can split it into half his articles. The first part is intended for foreigners, it is said from third countries. What does that mean? It is said that foreigners outside Schengen, outside the borders of the European Union and their rights and duties when they wish to work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We've already figured out these rights together, in the entire government coalition, they've been violated, they've been abused many times. That is why certain matters are well aligned with European rules, and practice in neighbouring countries is being regulated. We can go back. We can determine the situation of these, so to speak, migrant workers. That's the most beautiful expression. It's like working migrants. The situation of migrant workers has long been linked to the history of countries. Even before that globalisation, before the media and information were going so fast around the world, before that, these were already labour migrations. Slovenians also left, saying that people who lived in Europe as a continent went to other continents for work. What was going on? They went for a year or two, maybe more, alone, and came into quite another world. There it was the first of the basics to meet the language. If a migrant migrant migrant worker does not deal with this problem of language, he has many problems. Why? He can be manipulated in that territory. That's exactly what I believe is the purpose of this legislation, to put an end to it. It is said that when a worker comes into the country for the purpose of work, it is the first to get used to and teach this language and culture and so on in addition to the work he is trying to obtain. Because, then, what can happen next? This worker can come to Slovenia to work for a year or two. But he can make up his mind, but he wants to live forever in this territory. It's a different approach from the one he wanted to do. To this end, this law now specifically provides for how this would be done. Also, not just for workers, but for those who come to Slovenia for study purposes and the like. This is particularly so with regard to the European law we have introduced in this law. On the other hand, we have the remaining problem of migrants who migrate, if we can say with a general concept that has emerged more intensively in the last period — if we are looking at the last 50 or 100 years. Thus, labour migration was already before World War I, after World War II also within the European Union. Now there are other migrations. We know that a bigger problem has arisen, as has already been said, in 2015 and 2016, when a large number of people have entered the territory of the European Union, which is now organised and protected by the so-called Schengen border. This is where our opinions are now being fucked. If we listen to the representatives of the left, we believe that everyone who has come to the territory of Europe has come in order to get rid of some bad situation in their countries. Whether this is true or not, it is necessary to find out because otherwise we know that Europe cannot function because there are too many people who would like to come to this territory. And not only to Slovenia, but also to other countries. Some find this provision on crisis management controversial. See, in the week when all the political public, particularly the opposition, and the media support for the so-called investment and not the investment, I will not go on, we have adopted and informed Parliament on two committees the views of the Republic of Slovenia up to five, six, seven proposals of the European Parliament and the Council on directives that are directly related to today's laws; it is said, the first, if we are talking about the appropriateness of minimum wages in the European Union, that we are talking about workers. What is even more important is the proposal for a regulation of the European Council on crisis management and the case of force majeure in the field of migration and asylum. Thus, Europe is also preparing documents that speak of force majeure. Our government has also issued a so-called crisis management decision on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court, and the European directive in adoption is talking about a case of force majeure in the field of migration and asylum. It is said that nothing in Slovenia is happening in a way that is inconsistent with the documents that the European Union also wants to regulate. And when we prepare clear documents and clear practices in our own country and in the entire European Union, whom we accept – who we want to work, we accept as a worker, who is a refugee, as a refugee. This term is well known to the Slovenians, and last but not least Slovenia has accepted a large number of refugees during the wars in our Balkans, and it is clear to the people. However, if we have certain people from third countries who want to go through Slovenia to Germany and only want to be processed there, it is only right that we regulate these documents and those arrangements in all European Union countries. These documents, in addition to the already mentioned European directives, are a personal basis for me – you know what? – undermines the fences we now have at the border of the European Union. When it is absolutely clear that no one can get in Europe just like that, from the luft – forgive the expression – the rights to survive, then these people will not come to Europe; except those who are of a criminal nature, but also those who have a legal basis in all of this, because the quickest is to introduce the entry of this man, these people who want to cross borders into our European register. This is again linked to directives that are being drawn up at European level. In order not to come to this, as we have heard, today there are 3,000 of them, we will initiate a procedure in the Republic of Slovenia, which is linked to the identification and then decision-making of the administrative process, as it is properly called, but we are 80, 90 percent missing, it is said to be lost, and the role has to be rejected. These are the basis for the rule of law, but the rule of law throughout the European Union. We have also heard about Christian standards and the like. Look, I'm never going to comment on communism and its acquisitions or its bad side in Parliament alone, because it's one of my bloodiest ideologies. That is why I do not imagine that the people who basically reject religion, religion and God will comment on these matters. We know, we can say who the first fugitive was if I made a Christian stand out of a religious position, but something else is important, there was a census of the population two thousand years ago. So, the records, the records of everyone who migrates, who travels, must be adjusted, let it be in the world, and let it be in the European Union. It was generally known, the media also reported, and you could see physically in pictures and words when documents were lying in our forests. This can no longer happen to us because it will be arranged, it is also said in the future. I also believe that these two areas are for migrants of workers who want to work in Slovenia and for others, always have to be regulated in relation to all the documents that are also being produced in the European Union at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. And get ready for Andrei Chernigoy. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm going to tie myself up, even though the gentleman said he wouldn't comment on ideological communism, he did, he marked it. But I will dare to comment as a Christian, as a leftist, but I do not want to comment now on the various statements, but I would simply like to draw attention to the basics of where everything essentially leads. In fact, Mr Moškrič had already pointed out that the oldest refugees were Joseph and Mary and Jesus, who actually had to flee from the birth, from the tyrant to Egypt to protect their child. In fact, however specific we are talking today about the Aliens Act or these European directives that should be implemented in this law, we must remember once again that a large number of refugee families are fleeing and are also migrating, if you want, not only because of a better life, but to survive or protect their children at all. Here you would also appeal to this Christian spirit, to which you repeatedly remind, you try to spread it among us. I have never denied being a Christian, nor will I ever deny that I am a Christian because I am proud of it. But I'm left-handed. And Jesus was, in fact, the first leftist, however you want to admit it or not to admit it. And I don't really understand why you're saying one thing at a time, and then you take something else. At least we're saying what we're taking. And in fact, I am proud in this case that we stand up for those weakest, often without international protection, who often remain at the borders that with certain pushbacks, now, if you do not know what pushbacks are, these are illegal means of persecution or persecution of refugees back to the areas from which they came. And if you want, we have, too, it might not be bad to ever read this title book because I will remember it, the black book of pushbacks, where there are actually described and even cases of these illegal persecutions or rejection of refugees, migrants at borders or at these crossings where they wanted to get a better life together with families. [[…]] We also recently had a case where the police really turned out to be right and should be given them here, and they did prove themselves in this case when they helped a woman who gave birth or who had actually given birth to a child. But many times, the problem is not in the police, but in the instructions given to police officers to act at certain borders regarding migrants and refugees. I would never blame any police officer because a police officer has only to do his job. True, they have their ethical standards that can also be countered by superior orders if they know that they are unethical instructions or unethical orders that could affect or even endanger their lives. Mr. Hoys will be able to tell you firsthand what that means. I say, once again, as far as this law is concerned, of course, we are against, in Levica, also personally, because the law is already fundamentally discriminatory, because if you read it thoroughly or also these directives that need to be implemented, then there is still some expansion or some additions – I will say again, some kind of subset in this Foreign Law. Whichever one you want, I'll say to the scoundrel, quite frankly. [[…]] Also from this point of view discriminatory to foreigners, because, in fact, the law, the Law on Foreigners, divides into wanted foreigners or migrants, however, and then to those undesirable; it is said that those who come from third countries that are not from the EU are undesirable, and those from this area are desirable. I'm saying, I'd just go back to this basic thing once we've established this subject, and we've all been so ideologically avoiding each other, and I don't think so. Look, if it's about Christianity on a basis that really wants only good and wants to do good and help the weak, then I support 100 percent. I support this kind of thing 100 percent! I also know that many times we are being bribed, left - handed, or left - handed, to oppose religions and things. We are independent people here who share a very important matter of doing good and doing better for this society. Maybe there's a lot of things that some people don't agree with, because then there's different interests in the back, whether they're lobbying or whatever, because it doesn't matter, I'm not going to comment on that. But that's why we're here and we're accepting and we're different and we're really this special group of people, but we're standing up for each other, which I would expect to see this happening in the National Assembly. Well, I'll get back to my marriage. One example, for example, is a very disturbing matter. In the event that the fugitive arrives or has to wait two years to join the family, in fact, the first of all is the issue, as far as I know, because of these international treaties. That's the first thing. The other thing is that. See how the fugitive gets here – where should this Slovenian language be taught? After all, it's right, because I know that there's a chance to learn it here, but in fact everyone is different, it's said, everyone else understands a foreign language. We also have people who have been here for how many years, and in professions that are very high places, they speak very average Slovenian. I do not know why we would now expect someone to come looking for a better tomorrow or for a better future for their children – he is immediately asked to speak or speak Slovenian. Even a large number of Members don't have it here. I'm sorry. When you read it on Twitter, your head hurts. Maybe it wouldn't be bad sometimes to send someone back to primary school. Basically, as I say, I'm against, we're against, but things aren't right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. First, I'll give the replica to Janez Moscrich, then he gets the word "minister." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I really need to replicate my colleague, Boštian, because apparently I was misunderstood. Once again, let's not mix the terms of a fugitive worker, that's not it. It's not like that. So, a migrant worker exists, there is no refugee worker. That's exactly what I said. Thus, for migrant workers, the history of mankind in general is appropriate; some go to a third country or to our particular case for the purpose of working. Just for the sake of work, good money, if you can, and then you go back to your country and you keep trying to raise the standard there. Refugees, we know who the fugitive was in the past, and the European Union wants to help refugees as a whole. It is said that documents that we will be all refugees who want to be good to their family, first of all the protection of life – it is said, the protection of life, our family and family – and then perhaps a higher standard, we also accept common documents in this area. Then there will be a third that needs to be determined what their purpose is, and this will be regulated in these documents. And absolutely nothing else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Quite what I wanted to say to Mr Koražija has already been said by honourable Member Muskrič. Look, honourable Member, you were talking about bringing together a refugee family — none of this law speaks. We're talking about other categories here; we're talking about people who are here legally, so who have permission to stay and work and we're talking about family reunification for these people, not for those who are refugees. There's something else I'd like to say. I don't know where you get these constant words about some scoundrel. We came with the law, I'd say, completely transparent. Everything you read here is not framed. It is true that we tighten things in some parts and implement the directive and we are not underlining anything, because everything is transparent and everything in this law makes sense in this law. It's not like, say, they're in the PKP -- I don't know which one, eight or something -- because it has nothing to do with the epidemic, but you put it in the PKP -- I don't know, I don't think it's eight or seven. So there's everything we're talking about in here that's related to strangers. One more thing. What you're saying or what you're saying and what you're saying about the EU is what you're talking about. This law also, of course, establishes relations or lays down rights, obligations and so on for EU citizens, but it is our country. So we have EU countries, and then we have third countries, which is why this thing is separate. It is clear that EU citizens' rights are also governed, and it is clear that, in accordance with European legislation, the rights of EU citizens, where we have free movement of goods, services, people and so on, differ from what is possible or what is possible for third-country nationals. Therefore, third countries are particularly exposed. Not because anyone would be discredited, bullied or anything, but because it is the EU's legal regulation. Just as each country has one rule for its citizens, for those who wish to enter, there are some special rules without being discriminatory. I don't think they're discriminatory in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Andrej Chernigoj has the word and will be discussed by Violet Tomić. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u44	Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by making it very clear that changes in these areas are urgently needed. The Law on Foreigners and the Law on International Protection, I must say in my own personal opinion and also in the opinion of many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, do not solve most of the problems that citizens and citizens across Slovenia have warned us about. Let me say that, in this place, we are in the parliamentary group, and personally, after various e-mails and calls, we have received many messages in which areas things could improve. Let me say right now that, in the vast majority of the proposals they have made to us in New Slovenia – and I personally – we agree, but I must say that even the vast majority are not in these two laws. Let me mention here, we recently received a letter from Kranj Municipality, Mayor of Kranj Municipality. This letter was very well reasoned and highly articulate and I must say that I see their public letter as a call to people, it was in a letter facing great problems, but despite the great effort they themselves have found solutions. These solutions, in my opinion, must come from us, that is, from the country or, if I am otherwise articulating, this esteemed National Assembly. Unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier, these two laws are not so extensive as to address all these problems and needs. Therefore, it will be necessary to open up or complete much more than in these two laws to solve all problems, but I still believe that these corrections are going in the right direction. On the other hand, I am very concerned that some in the National Assembly are in line with irregular legislation; legislation that has legal gaps — domestically, according to the law — would say holes in the sea — and any effort to make progress is already condemned and immediately negatively labelled by names such as disputed provisions, we have heard various instigators and so on. Before I touch the law itself on amendments and additions to the Aliens Act, allow me another call. Yesterday I noticed an article in the media, I read an article, a very important article by Who Calms and Who Brings Fire on It. Regrettably, again today we have heard words such as the Pharisees, those ugly Christians, and so forth in some of the parliamentary positions or in some of the parliamentary positions. I'd really like to ask. These are ideological battles. Let's leave our feelings behind. I believe, I firmly believe that you can present your position without firing fire unless you want it or otherwise can't. In both cases, this is unacceptable and, once again, condemned. Now, if we go to the law itself on changes and additions to the Foreign Act. Here I would like to point out six things that I think need to be highlighted. I welcome the bill. It deals with the emergence of a complex crisis in the field of migration. In the context of the management, management of the complex crisis, the Government may decide, on a reasoned proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, on a measure to temporarily adapt the implementation of the Law on International Protection in a specific area in the Republic of Slovenia. We all have ahead of us, in front of the 2015 and 2016 events, and I think this is the right measure to solve this problem quickly. But let me say my personal case from Illyrian Bistrica, when we repeatedly had a large uncontrolled number of illegal migrants. Second point. I very much agree with the proposal for a law to limit the evidence that a foreigner applying for a residence permit can demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence during his stay in Slovenia. I am pleased that the selection excludes the reimbursement of labour costs, which cover the cost of food during work, transport to work and work, and the reimbursement of costs incurred by employees in carrying out certain tasks and tasks on a business trip and so on. I think that only a worker who, with his own work and not his own in additions, earns enough to survive his own family is entitled to it. As for the fourth point, I must say that this point for our Republic of Slovenia and for the respect of our culture, our language is most important. I have studied a lot of things in this area and it is essentially a very simple systematic measure to scale the condition of knowledge of the Slovenian language. This is what the current A1 rate is said to be going up to A2. Here I must say I will say so: it is not a big step, but I think it is a step in the right direction. [[…]] But I would like to point out here, for example, cases from Germany where when children come into the school system, they actually need to know a lot better German language. As a matter of fact, at the level of native speaker. Final point. I must say that we are also ensuring the implementation of the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union by means of a bill of two things. We add two points that they may also be able to work in the field of temporary residence permits in the field of research and higher education. In fact, it is a compliment to the European directives. My personal opinion is that it is very important here that foreigners working here in Slovenia and their immediate family members integrate as soon as possible in the Republic of Slovenia, so it is a key knowledge of Slovenian literary language and also some basic knowledge of the history of the Republic of Slovenia. Although I would like this knowledge to continue to increase, because this means only something positive, greater assimilation and so on, I will support this law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act with great joy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word, and Anja Bah Žibert will discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. As you might expect, of course, the beach will congregate us to my position, which is the position of the leftist Group, and that my personal discredits will begin. My people. Thus, New Slovenia MEP Reberšek claims that I have shouted: “Messengers to the minimum”, and I am being discredited by the right all the time, but I must say that there is already some judicial procedure to clarify the truth of this claim. Because this slogan was never used by Violet Tomić. So if you have no proof of this, you will have to prove where you are dragging this gossip out for the purpose of debate here or the discreditation of a Member in its debate. Everything is nice and right when Nova Slovenija says she wants better integration, empowering migrants. I can agree with you here, but we are diametrically opposite in our way of solving the problem. True, there is a need to solve the problem so that these people have no reason to flee their homes. However, we know that there are different reasons for fleeing: persecution based on faith, based on race, nationality or political belief. The reasons for escape are war, extreme hunger, poverty, environmental, economic exhaustion and so on. The fact is, the poorest people who run are always at home in the territories that are the richest. Have you ever wondered why an area rich in precious stones, gold, causes so much poverty among the population born there and who have the only and only right to live there? Like you or like us citizens of Slovenia and someone would, because under our feet there is a site of something, he excused us and put us here – because we have a cracking case in Prekmurje, for example, where Prekmurci is not important, but to profit some English companies that accidentally do not do cracking at home. So you know, this is a very complex question. And yes, from the source, we need to solve the reasons why these people are running. One of these reasons is global warming, when it does so, even though the European Union and the Paris Agreement demand that we radically change our attitude towards nature and industrialisation, such as it is, we do nothing. Deserting is taking place in whole areas where people actually come from the green tropics into the desert, where nothing grows and there is no water. They're getting out of there. Many flee because of wars that they have not caused or can't defend themselves. You're telling them to defend themselves, just like we defended ourselves in the 10-day war. These people experience two superpowers, the Russian and the American armies fighting over their heads. Then he has a great role to play, but you will not doubt what they are doing — according to you. I don't know if you've ever heard of the Sahrawis who are kind of a defender of our peace. The Sahrawis are people who, after the withdrawal of the imperialists, fell under the Moroccan occupation and are now pushed from their homeland to the Sahara and have, this is called the wall of shama, one of the longest military walls that everyone can,– day! – they spend a million euros to maintain this wall. It also separates this wall from the inhabitants of the minefield, the endless minefield where children are going. And you know, these refugees have been living in Algeria for 43 years and have named their cities after the cities they had to leave, so that the children will know where they're from when they can go back to their territory. I've been there with them for ten days. It is very ruthless to live in the middle of the Sahara, where temperatures fall firmly below the minus at night and rise to 45 degrees during the day. Our former common country recognized the Sahrawis in 1984 and we never notified it. Now, of course, it's back there, because the third generation, the fourth generation, we're born in captivity and they can't do it anymore. What do they want? They want the right to self-determination, just like we did. We'd do well to share it with everyone else. And you know, it's not a solution if the respected Pedro Pepeka collects in Africa, or if we collect and send, as we say in Africa5, 5 euros. No, no, no. We need to teach them how to fish and allow them to fish. There's a lot of fish in Morocco. And what has the European Union and this House done? He made a trade agreement with Morocco. That is, the stolen goods are called fish and the goods of those people who are exiled and sold to the European Union. And the European Union, of course, has an interest! What am I telling you? The interests of global capital are above all and the misery of these people, who then flee and find themselves outside our doors, then we are not interested. Let them stay there. Yes! I agree with you here. Let's sit once, find solutions to what kind of policy we're going to lead, so these people can stay there, because that's the only right thing and the only right thing to do. No one, you know, goes on that long journey a little bit of a joke. Good. We're always people different and different groups are. There's always some kind of misbehavior. Always. But crime, as my colleague mentioned earlier, is happening in a lack of systemic solutions, and then criminals find niche and collect money from these people and smuggle it. We have signed the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees and, as a member of the European Union, we have assumed some obligations in the field of international protection. They are always stressing - I have just had a meeting of the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe for Human Rights - and we always stress that the European Union is not a supermarket, and your former President, Ljudmila Novak, has repeatedly cited this. It is not a supermarket where we take from the European Union what is good or what is good for us, it is said that when money is shared to collect it, it is expected from us also certain groups of policies and commitments: respect for human rights, promotion of civil society and so on. In short, you cannot violate the basic principles of our common European Union, not respect the Paris Agreement, the Istanbul Conventions, the Geneva Conventions, and follow a policy, give us money, and then we'll do it our way. About this marriage. What confuses us most is that, in essence, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia changes without the necessary two-thirds majority, because in addition to introducing exceptional situations that are understandable, we are now introducing a complex crisis. So far, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines only a state of emergency or war. We are now introducing a complex crisis, which can be highly arbitrary. The government will decide that a complex crisis is a lot, given that we know that it has a very low tolerance threshold for this concept, the crisis what it is. I have to tell you that there is a trend in illegal transgressions in 2020 [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. The trend of illegal offences in 2020 is as low as 25 per cent in 2019. It is said that this trend is declining. We know that it was bad in 2015 and that it was a rush. The raid was because Mrs. Merkel said: “Refugees Wellcome.” And then what happened happened, without any actual solutions, how to hire these people, integrate them and so on. In short, we agree here; migration is a fact, always have been, always will, and since there is a humanity, people have migrated. According to the United Nations, 44,400 people are forced to leave their homes each day. They're not going to spancin'. They're forced. And again, let's find solutions so they won't be forced to leave their homes. You know, I strongly advocate Slovenian language and the use of Slovenian everywhere, but the condition of Slovenian language knowledge is quite, um, unusual requirement at first entry. I remember recently we had a case that we witnessed a severe health crisis through RTV when we had a shortage of medical personnel because they came from Croatia, for example, and did not master good Slovenian. That is a fact, the minister you are nodding, because journalists do not lie, television does not lie, and medical staff at the UKC do not lie. We also heard statements from a doctor who had a problem with this. In short, however, instead of scaring the average in front of foreigners, it is necessary to separate between migrant workers, refugees and, above all, to work with people, not as a security threat or as an ecological disaster, a natural phenomenon, a wave of refugees, a flood of the earthquake we have not yet had. [[…]] I'm sorry. This is how people come to us, most of them do not even want to stay in Slovenia, but go where they are more friendly. And as I have already warned in the position of the Group of Members, you know, sometimes you say they'll flood us, our culture and so on. You're thinking about it! Not only how to keep these people at home, but how to keep our young people at home. Because there's no way with a natural policy. Regular services, reliable jobs, the possibility of access to housing, these are things that will lift the birthrate and keep Slovenia inside. Our children must and are forced to go elsewhere to get a job. Instead of personally discrediting a Member who thinks otherwise, I would lay it on your heart to think about where we can be caught and where we can do good, especially for this territory in which we all live. Try to experience the fates of those who have left everything behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u48	Your Honor, thank you for your discussion. Maybe I could just give you two answers. Again, in your debate, refugees and foreigners who live here have often been involved. So, in this law, in this case we are not talking about refugees, this will be regulated by another law, i.e. in procedures for international protection. Now, as far as the language is concerned, I must say that this debate of yours was, in fact, incorrect. In fact, doctors, this has been reported by the media, and the chamber responded, here I have the website of the Medical Chamber, where it says that knowledge is required at a much higher level than we require this time. Grade A1 is the most basic rate anyone who comes to Slovenia must have. In fact, it seems perfectly normal for me to ask for it. Doctors, of course there is a dilemma in this and here you are also partly right that in the crisis we needed doctors who may not have needed, as it says here, knowledge of Slovenian language at level C1, so much more, it would be possible if you knew even on A2 or A1. But here in our marriage, we're far from those levels that you've been talking about. This is a stage A1 only in the next phase, but when it comes to someone being here for five years, which you will probably agree that if after five years you don't know Slovenian in grade A2, or you do a grade A2 exam, then something is wrong with you. Even all those working in Germany, including the Slovenians working in Germany, know German after five years, so this is a much higher degree than just a few German words.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word, and he will get the word Marko Bandelli for it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In fact, today we need to stress that we are talking about two important laws. But at this point we are talking about the so-called Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, only then in the next item will we talk about the so-called amendments to the Law on International Protection. Why am I stressing this? Because I think, although I have listened very much to the debates, they are different, interesting, but it seems to me that there is a bit of a mix of concepts here or some people simply want to abuse these things because we have already opened them up, discussed them and even talked about them several times in the National Assembly. First of all, it seems to me that I also owe a few answers to the debate of colleagues and colleagues, because I think it is important that we also clear up some things and see what is really going on and when the proposals of the law are being tried in some way as some populism, but not that we are looking together for solutions and, of course, solutions in a way that will in the first place benefit citizens and citizens or, if you want otherwise, also taxpayers. Indeed, colleague Violeta Tomić has somehow stopped in some countries, who live in some of the times, I will say, war and so on, but see, here we must be really concrete and clear. We have refugee status and we have migrant status. As far as refugees are concerned, we know precisely that we have defined countries, so-called countries that are safe, and countries that are unfortunately not. Slovenia has never had problems with refugees who have come from the so-called zone of not safe countries. Once again here, let us remember the bad times in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Remember how many refugees Slovenia then took under its wing, under its roof. The numbers were kind of fluctuating out there or there were about 70 grand, if I'm not mistaken. And we helped them! In the end, these people either stayed even in Slovenia or returned after the situation had settled. Again, Slovenia has always provided assistance to those in need. On the other hand, we have safe countries, but in them people who are looking for a better profit. These are economic migrants. Each country, the European Union in the end, has the right to determine how many of these economic migrants it will accept and how many there will not be. And that's the only way. A colleague wondered what we were doing to prevent these people from living in poverty and so on. I think we've said this a lot. The means that we use to somehow get illegal migrants, economic migrants in particular, and this statistics show nicely, these are young men and middle-aged men, see, these statistics cannot be denied – why do they not stay with themselves and somehow fight for a better future? Well, one of the answers I find is in Venezuela. We know what kind of political system they have, and it's no wonder that people are fleeing this country. Now, let me tell you one more case. I think I've even said it once before, but it's completely real and I think it's important to understand this notion of migrants and refugees. You know, when Slovenian soldiers were on a mission in Afghanistan, they had, where they were staying and so on, they go under the auspices of each country; in short, there are also domestic workers. Bedis help in some food establishments and so on; in short, it does not matter. This also led to contacts with these locals and representatives in some way, if I say so, the Slovenian Armed Forces and they were talking to each other. So there came a debate with one of these locals about how much his family had, how many family members he had, and he just said, and then he mentioned his brother. And they asked him where that brother was, considering you work here. Yeah, and he's a migrant. Yeah, they answered, but he's a migrant. Yeah, what's he doing? No, he's not doing anything. He's a migrant, but he deserves twice as much as I do. That tells me all about it. He tells me all of this and so do many others. What is this law really about, and I think it's very important. I hope that colleague Violeta Tomić was seriously wrong earlier when she said, "We haven't had an earthquake yet, I'm afraid." I hope we still have to be so grateful that we didn't have an earthquake. But I do have a feeling that some in this country, for example, do not want to find and take solutions, but that they can protect us until a certain form of crisis, we have different forms of crisis. And even if we remember that raid of refugees 2015, migrants 2015/2016, remember that there was a crisis all of a sudden. Was. And it is very important that we also have this defined how and what, also because there are about 10,000 migrants in Bosnia. Ten thousand migrants! And we need to know that these migrants are culturally closer to the culture of the people in Bosnia, but there are bad prospects. To severe looks, to violence, to virtually multiple needs for police intervention and so on. In short, we don't know what can happen. However, let me now go to these solutions that are in the bill. As it is said, it is part of the implementation of the Directive since 2018. In short, we are really late and it is right to implement it as soon as possible. This is also the way to regulate research, studies, traineeships, voluntary work and so on when it comes to various exchanges of pupils. In short, it is important that this area be resolved and not least could be saved two years ago. Come in. True, this law also attempts to regulate an area where, somehow, we know, the decision of the Constitutional Court. In your discussions, some of you have particularly touched on what the Slovenian Democratic Party thought about this decision. I think that in some ways this can always be said, everyone has the right to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and it is essential whether we respect them or do not respect them. The fact is, given that the decision was already made on 18 September 2019, it means that the government of that time did not take it seriously, otherwise the government of that time would have arranged it. However, we take the decisions of the Constitutional Court seriously, responsibly, and we have also taken this responsibility. Of course, as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like this law, which we are considering now, as well as the law that we will consider in the next item, to further tighten the conditions in particular areas, I speak in particular areas, but only for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, this bill solves the issue of a decision by the Constitutional Court. Come in. Yeah, it's also an important area of family reunion. It is important for me here that, in the first place, it is known that those who come as legal migrants are said to be a foreigner at work to first ensure that they have a job to get an adequate payment for this work. Of course, it is right that this payment does not involve a variety of costs, because these costs are not permanent income, but they may arise, but they may not. It is therefore important that this is clearly recorded and that, after all the conditions have been met somehow, there is also the possibility of a union with the family. Last but not least, each of these can go to his family, which is not in any way impossible for him, but this matter. Come in. It was also said as regards the Slovenian language. I think our Slovenian language is beautiful, but it is also demanding and therefore it is right to include all the efforts and ways in which foreigners who come to Slovenia in one way or another to approach our language. Now, let me tell you one more example: this is my family member who has participated in the Slovenian Institute of Employment for a project; I will say a good project where representatives of Slovenia, job seekers, can go to work in another EU country for two months. So this time it was Germany — I think they had the most of this cooperation with Germany — and for two months they were able to do different jobs according to their education. But these people had to know German, it didn't just go that way. Not only did they have to know him, but at the same time a German language was taught. Thus, I always say that language learning is a treasurer, so I think that it should be a blessing to everyone to have the opportunity and to approach the learning of new languages. Thus, I do not understand that someone condemns the amendments concerning the learning of the Slovenian language. In fact, we should all welcome this and in some way do everything to make sure that as many people as possible who come to our country know our language and, as a result, our culture. In some ways, some also wanted to see that this was a different attitude towards foreigners coming from third countries and foreigners coming from EU countries. Look, this is clear, we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but at the same time we are fellow citizens of the European Union. So it's definitely a different way of coming here and talking about foreigners than talking about foreigners from third countries. So I think it's important. It has also been said that we are somehow cruel, that some people come from areas where there is no regulation, no water, and so on. See, fellow citizens and colleagues, once again; I am always helping where assistance is needed, but you know, let me remind you that our citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not have all access to drinking water and deliver it to some people with tankers, so that we do not forget our own citizens. One of the views was that we must be careful that human rights are on the one hand and that the security of the State is on the other. I think in these cases, in both cases, it's human rights. The security of citizens and citizens is also a human right. Let's not forget that! You know, it will be hard to convince me that we are not even talking about some security issues – this will be more for the next law. Go to the southern border and ask citizens and citizens who face daily incursions into their properties whether they feel safe. Do they have the right to be protected in this regard? Finally, we have never talked about who will pay the costs and everything else that these people experience — from place to place and so on. In short, we have some more to talk about in the future, but in the first place we must also follow in protecting our own citizens and citizens. It has also been said that we do not take care of it in some way or that it is important to have access to an apartment for young people, for young people are fleeing. Yeah, it's true. Access to housing is important, so I am even more critical of the statements made by Members or Members of the Left, who even says that if he has the opportunity to take care of the nationalisation of property and the taking of property to citizens and citizens. And this is an intervention into the constitution, and this is a terrible intervention! We've seen it before, and we know how cruel it turned out. On these matters, however, it seems to me that it is right that we are right. Then it was said, yes, yes, there is no need to sharpen, everything is already regulated enough, only control and exercise of powers is needed. In part, with regard to the control and exercise of powers, I absolutely agree with some of the predecessors who have spoken about it, but tell me how to exercise the powers if the migrant policy hides in the National Assembly, how to act then the relevant authorities; and this is why it hides it that no legal provision is made. It will be so difficult for you to tell me now that someone does not take care of control and enforcement if it even helps or makes it impossible for politics to do so. In short, I think colleague Baković has explained very well about the complex crisis. It has also been made clear that this is a definition in another law, so that all those who have not read it can look at what is going on in another law. Of course, it is something other than what the Constitution provides, so it also has a different form of solution or initiation. In short, I think that, however, this is a proposal for a law that is also prepared on the basis of a compromise within the coalition parties. I hope that this change will see the light of the world as soon as possible, because, as it is said, we have certain requirements and I think that the solutions are in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica, Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I deeply apologize to my colleague, Anja Bah Žibert, for I always forget that you cannot figuratively express yourself at our right hand. I was saying we're talking about people, not natural disasters like the wave, but tsunamis and so on. We'd only be missing a refugee earthquake, so I thought — I didn't understand. However, I hope that you have made a mistake when you say that refugees are culturally closer to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there are still riots. What makes them culturally closer to each other? The higher we are, the lower they are, or in your opinion, Rok Snezić was expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which proves that they are much higher under the rule of law. We do have a well-respected advisor to the Prime Minister. So I would ask you to stop and think about this stigmatization of what is south. In one thing, however, they are closer to something that we should be following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. My colleague Violeta Tomić, you don't have to stigmatize anyone with functions and things that don't judge or hold. It is the duty of the Member to speak the truth and to verify the facts. Involvement and similar things are neither in the debate of the Member States nor elsewhere. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. You've re-entered my replica, and you have no right to comment on what I'm replicating to my colleague, Anja Bah Žibert. Of course, it was about Micah Kordiš's question yesterday, and the Member has the right to always ask what is happening in the media. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u55	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u56	on behalf [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u57	You have a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u58	Of course, citizens and citizens [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u59	in relation to the specific case. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u60	And the taxpayers after all, [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u61	I'm giving you a warning. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u62	I'm sorry, we need to know, and the Prime Minister is in charge. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u63	The procedural proposal concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure in this particular case. And I'm giving you a second warning. Once again, the Member must be dignified, respectful, tolerant, non-discriminatory in his deliberations, and the Constitution also stipulates this, because the protection of human honour and dignity and so on must be respected by the Constitution. In your deliberations, be dignified and respect the acts in force in that country. Here you go, Violeta Tomic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u64	I ask you, Mr President, to tell me exactly where I have been or where I have been disrespectful in my debate. For I really think that you are unfair and that you are giving me warnings that are completely unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u65	The use of the rules of procedure, my colleague, is probably familiar with how it goes. I have warned you that you have not been consistent in the use of the Rules of Procedure in your debate or in the replica. We continue the debate. [[adverts from benches]] I don't put replicas on the replica. Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Anya Bah Žibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u66	President, I have one request. Since this was a serious error in the replica of colleague Violeta Tomić, I ask you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if you allow me a replica of the replica. For such a thing as has been said cannot and cannot remain in the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u67	Good. You have a replica of the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleague Violeta Tomić, here's your relationship and your deception. Now, if you really don't know that the culture of the inhabitants, I don't know, of Bosnia and Herzegovina is closer to culture to some countries so religiously, even after the holiday celebration and so on, these people who are closer to each other are talking about this, respected Violet Tomic, that people who are coming, migrants, they are violating everything on average and they can't believe that this is happening in their country. Look, different records are so media, also official, from different reports of organizations, what's going on in Bosnia. You'll see it's unacceptable. The people of Bosnia also have their human rights that have been violated, and they are therefore trying to do everything and we must not allow this to come to Slovenia. So don’t abuse or read any more books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Procedurally Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u70	I'm asking if you'll allow me a replica of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u71	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u72	Because Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert was really manipulating here. You won't let me, will you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u73	You'll get a share of the time then.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I've been expecting your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u75	Yes, thank you. We're moving on. Marko Bandelli has the word, and she'll get the word of Tadey Shuštar behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you, President, for your word. Here from one basis – one law, one amendment, one novel that brings some provisions of the European Directive – which should be focused solely on the issue of certain temporary permits, as I understand, for living for the sake of essentially doing work in the field of research, higher education and residence for study purposes. This was the basis of this now, we are not talking about other things, because I think there will probably be a debate in the second part, in the Law on International Protection, even asylum, because it will also be an important issue, and changes. Nevertheless, I see that there are a lot of such matters in this law, which we in the SAB Group also consider to be good – certain changes. However, in my opinion, they are interfering with some family respect, if I say so, in a family system that has indeed been proved — and this law will probably prove to be unconstitutional because we are interfering too much with certain matters. Now, this law also regulates somehow the issue of a single residence permit for researchers, students here, especially for the need to find a job. This novel, if you say so, also contains some other solutions, including in the direction of certain restrictions, if you say so, on the right to asylum. We have to be very careful here. And that's exactly the problem that's here. We ourselves know that the Constitutional Court has already rejected this provision of Article 10b in 2019, if I am well aware here, of the Aliens Act, which, in this case, provided for restrictions on the entry of foreigners into the country without individual treatment. That was a bit of a dispute back then. Now, what do we do in this marriage? We do nothing else than once again the Minister proposes the same, similar solution, if we say so, without any major changes. Otherwise, they're making some small changes. In doing so, the proposer introduced a new condition that would give effect to this measure, with the emergence of a complex crisis. What does that mean? We can also agree that the police could also reject the intention of a foreigner applying for international protection if he came from other countries. In his own words, he did not want to stop in one country because it did not suit him, and he goes to another country because he is more comfortable there or thinks he will have a different situation, a different life. And then eventually it can land in Slovenia and say it will be here in Slovenia. Because that's what people need to understand. And then, after the implementation of this complex crisis — or how we want to say it — the police can reject this request for a simple reason, as if in the neighbouring Member State, from which the alien has entered, there are no systemic shortcomings in this asylum, the essence of this process. We could also agree here, because I think it's the right thing to think about why he came for one purpose and then I would like to move on to another purpose and to other countries. This is where he needs to be stopped. But, you know, in all this, in this novel, in all this marriage the victims will certainly be workers, families will be, children will be victims here, the most vulnerable groups, the most vulnerable people, that is the essence of this – by this law. We don't have any systemic solutions here, let's be clear, none. This ad hoc was made only for a particular target group because it was practically a SDS programme, it was already in the programme, in the SDS electoral campaign – this thing here. We put it back on the table again because we saw that it was unconstitutional at the time, and it is likely to be unconstitutional now. At the very least, what this law, if we call it, saves is some kind of integration. He's not even saving that. He's refusing. If we go to that bill, which also introduces the condition of knowledge of the Slovenian language on the basis of the level as such. Okay, we could agree on that here, too. You can't work with us if you don't know the basics of the language. But you know, we don't just accept a foreigner here with this law, like you see, a Pakistani, an Iraqi, or I don't know where it comes from, but we can talk about an American here. We can talk about other people here. About the man who comes from Argentina, Chile, where we have so many that we still have to bring in, thank God that we solve their problem; Venezuela and everything else that is. Are we sure these people know everything? They can get jobs here and they don't know the basics of Slovenian. We won't have to give them. Under this law, this will be limited. That's why I'm saying it's a little complicated. It's not as simple here as you think. However, the most prudent thing in the house, which has disturbed me greatly, is that, according to the new condition, this right to family reunification is two-year-old. So we're asking him to stay away from his family for two years, literally. It's only after two years when he's here and he's working that he can call his family to come along. Today's a year. I think it's very cruel to say so. It's cruel, literally. In the SAB Group, we agree that changes in this asylum law are absolutely necessary. I repeat, it is true. Since 2015, the international protection system has been overloaded. I propose and know that this matter cannot be resolved ad hoc for Slovenia. This thing here can't be solved on our one-way side. This must be on a level, we are members of the European Union, we must resolve this at the level of the European Union. You know, there's something else I'm going to tell you quickly, because at this very time of the epidemic, this lack of an anti-systemic solution has proved to be, if I say so, and especially these protections for these foreign workers and workers. I'll give you an example. Because they weren't busy for an indefinite period because you can't be employed for an indefinite period in one company if you're a foreigner because you only have a work permit. Do you have any idea how much of our workforce is needed here that we don't have? Because we're talking about so much labour that we can hire her. The construction engineer won't go to work for the builder. Slovenian. I don't think he's gonna go. Do you know how much demand and lack of such labor is? Cooks. Speaking of massage parlors, that's all. Who's the expert. They're all foreigners. However, they do not have and cannot have a working relationship for a certain period of time, but they have not benefited from any of these measures that have been envisaged for these companies so far. They couldn't use it. Now we've solved it after the new one. I think it's settled in the week. Finally. Our economy is extremely dependent on foreigners. Yes, it is. And you can talk here any way you want. It depends heavily on the workforce that comes from abroad. And it'll be more and more. The more we want to turn to some industry 4.0, the more we will have an educated staff and we will need a workforce. Are we aware of that? We have a deficit of 10,000 jobs a year! That is why I have always been a person who I wanted to be a relatable way of foreigners, so that it is also possible for other countries to look at what needs are in our country and to come. But in this way, what this law adopts, this is completely in a different sense. In general, although we agree with certain changes here in this law, we will not support it, because such solutions need to be sought at the level of the European Union. We are of this view that matters must be resolved by the European Union, not by Slovenia itself, as Hungary does, and we fall back on Hungary's example. We'd like to make one photocopy of Hungary here with this law. Why is that? [[advertising from the hall]] Why? But we don't want to be alone once and do certain things ourselves, but not in the sense that we are. [[Incomprehensible]] Let us be aware that workers, foreign workers, are holding up Slovenian infrastructure. Are we aware of this? I don't think we're aware of that in here. The law, I repeat, I will not support it because it is fundamentally unconstitutional and essentially does not solve absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Tadej Shuštar has the word, and he must prepare himself for the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The amendments to the Foreigners Act mainly follow the Directives of the European Union and implement the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. In addition, it brings some changes, such as the emergence of a complex crisis in the field of migration. What was happening in 2015, when crowds of migrants arrived in Slovenia, they could be declared a complex crisis. Different procedures would be initiated to temporarily adapt the implementation of the International Protection Act. On the basis of a decision taken by the Government, the police would reject the intention of a foreigner to file an application for international protection, provided that there were no systemic deficiencies in the neighbouring country from which the foreigner entered Slovenia with regard to the asylum procedure and the conditions for admission of applicants which could result in a risk of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment and sent the foreigner to that country. Of course, we also have exceptions in this regard, namely that the measure does not apply if the medical situation of a foreigner would clearly prevent that action, if a foreign family member is a foreigner who cannot act because of a health condition, if it is by appearance, behaviour or other circumstances for a unaccompanied minor, or if a foreigner proves in the proceedings that the neighbouring country is not a personal and safe country for him or for the justified reasons of that country has not been able to apply for international protection. Some today speak of Joseph, Mary, and Jesus as refugees. Yeah, they were really fugitives. They were runaways because they served their child's life. They ran together to save the child's life. Joseph did not leave Mary and Jesus behind, but of course he took them with him. In the case of illegal migration, however, we can see that in the vast majority it is only for men who are looking for a better standard of living. The comparison makes absolutely no sense. Of course, there are also cases where families run away because of life threats, but they are in a large minority. I am convinced that such families from threatened areas in Europe can receive adequate international protection. Therefore, do not use the image of holy families to promote illegal economic migration. Of course, it's important to stand up for the most vulnerable. The question is whether the promotion of illegal migration helps the most vulnerable at all. Encouraging people to take a risky path instead of helping the poorest in their countries. I think it's a bear service. You could say that there's also fake solidarity. Help should be strengthened for the most vulnerable, even where this is the most helpful. We need to help their families, not smugglers. We hear many times that foreigners come to us for international protection, that the state protects them and that all social transfers and then live at the expense of taxpayers. In New Slovenia, we always stress that every healthy person must be given a job, not social assistance. And migrants are no exception. In order to better integrate into the labour market and adapt to Slovenian society, they have introduced some conditions that a foreigner could achieve. Among other things, the knowledge of Slovenian at A1 level is to obtain permanent residence and to extend permanent residence after the past five years the level of knowledge of Slovenian A2. This is a basic prerequisite for foreigners to be found in a country to be able to say basic things in a language understood by Slovenians as well. It seems unreasonable to me that someone who has lived in Slovenia for 20 years can not say a single Slovenian sentence. Parents who have children in schools and kindergartens, where the language is mostly foreign in the classroom and children do not understand each other because they do not have the right communication in Slovenian. The law amends or limits the evidence whereby a foreigner applying for a residence permit can demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence during his stay in Slovenia. The selection excludes the cost reports relating to work covering the cost of food during work, transport to work, work and reimbursement of the costs incurred by employees in carrying out certain tasks and duties on business travel. Reimbursement for work costs does not constitute payment for work, nor does the public funds to which a foreigner is entitled under the law governing family benefits and the benefits to which it is entitled under the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds, but will only take into account the resources that foreigners will actually earn. Furthermore, the amendment of the law ensures the implementation of the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community in its work, which regulates the rights in relation to residence or the continuation and issuance of residence documents for the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members who will legally reside in Slovenia during the transitional period of 31 December and intend to continue to reside in Slovenia after the next period. The proposal lastly introduces into the national order a European Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, study, traineeship, volunteer work, student exchange programmes or educational projects. The fundamental objective is to facilitate the entry of third-country nationals coming to the EU for the purpose of carrying out research work and studies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Were you misunderstood? [[Laugh]] That's not the point. Were you misunderstood in the debate or not? That's the essence of the replica. Okay, Bostian Koražija, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u80	Mrs. Shuštar's replica. That's the way it is. Look. First of all, no one from the Left promotes these migrations or refugees.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u81	Where were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u82	Right on that. Madam Member suggested in terms that we are the ones who are causing or encouraging these migratory waves. Look, Angela Merkel 2015 for the Christian Democratic Union, in fact her sister’s parties – and it’s right that she did that at the time because they were refugees or they really needed urgent help — invited them to Germany or even though they went [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u83	We're talking about hiring foreigners, not refugees.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u84	The lady also discussed in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u85	I understand, but where did she not understand you here?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u86	Okay, that's what I was gonna say. In fact, we are not the ones who promote migration. Migrations promote wars that take place all over the world, or refugees, every day and ever more. As previously said, there are some 44 thousand to 45 thousand refugees who must leave their homes or their surroundings, their homes, their families, and those who [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u87	We are talking about the employment of foreigners in Slovenia, not Zimbabwe, but the Spanish Sahara, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u88	Yeah, but look, they're related to the debate. But you've previously allowed Mrs. Shuštar to discuss it this way. Yes, and so I think I have the right to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u89	Stick to the debate because there has been no misunderstanding and abuse or violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u90	This is not an abuse of the rules of procedure. Then, in fact, it's an abuse by Mrs. Shuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u91	You're breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u92	As we say, we are not the ones who encourage. Unfortunately, these migrations promote wars and indeed crisis hotspots that are taking place around the world. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Bojana Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u94	Dear President, I would really like to ask you politely when it comes to a replica when it comes to a procedural proposal, please let the Member speak and, when he has finished, say your opinion without jumping into his word. I know because I tried to discuss what he wanted to say to my colleague, but he failed to say because you were constantly disturbing him, so I'm making a procedural proposal to let the MP tell his mind to the end and then you comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your proposal. It's different. I can intervene between a replica or during a procedural period if it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That gives me that right. But you don't usually like it when I comment at the end. You also obstructed yourself when I made a comment at the end. So there are different options and I suggest that if you want us to be able to discuss how this is going on, I suggest that the debate continues. Procedurally, Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u96	Mr Vice President Tanko, I ask you to have the same vats for everyone here in the National Assembly not just for one, for the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very nice greetings, everyone, colleagues and colleagues! Today, during the debate, I wondered what the opposition wanted with the debate, whether it was to protect Slovenia and Slovenia or foreigners. Don't get me wrong. Many Slovenians and Slovenes are likely to follow you? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u99	Wait a minute! Under another name, it's your card. They'll handle it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u100	No, it's not. It's here. I've got mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u101	They'll only be a moment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u102	Still, can I go on or wait?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u103	Is it arranged now? You may proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u104	Once again, I will ask myself, during the debate, whether the opposition wants to protect Slovenia and Slovenia or prefer foreigners. Not to be misunderstood, many Slovenians and Slovenes have probably also stopped you from asking whether the state can really do anything against such massive coercion and actually draining our country through social transfers. It is true that today we have this solution, this change in the law on the table, which is primarily because it implements the transposition of the directive of the European Union into our legal order, but because this area is truly messy, it also introduces new changes or solutions. Otherwise, these solutions would in particular bring together the de-liberation of procedures, the protection of the Slovenian language and culture of the Slovenian people, the prevention of entry into the Republic of Slovenia with false purposes of employment and study, and thus the extraction of our country mainly by social transfers, and how to deal with the emergence of a complex crisis in the field of migration. Debirocratization of procedures is always very good, but it is difficult to legalize, and this government is also working on it, and this is what it looks like in this law. It appears that in changing the service of the temporary residence permit, in such a way that the alien will be allowed to have his first temporary residence permit in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the assumption that he has already received fingerprints at the diplomatic office or consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, which means that by now the first service had to be, the right first permit, to wait in his country where they came from. With this, this change is also being corrected. Then the transition from a two-phase procedure to a one-phase procedure, which means that time limits are being cut, the police will directly implement the decisions of the administrative authorities if the foreigner does not follow their statement. It is also very important to carry out automatic verification of the conditions of sufficient means of survival. It is said that it will be periodically reviewed whether these conditions are still fulfilled or not, and this is particularly important because of the control itself, because we hear and know that control in this area is very weak. With this change, as the bases on the Furs will then be linked to the Fursovs, this path will in fact be easier and it will also be seen whether investors still meet the conditions for staying by means of livelihoods. Then we have a change in the area of determining the means of subsistence, the correct amount of sufficient resources, namely, this quota is no longer considered as social transfers, and the costs incurred in carrying out the work are transport costs, different diaries, and the reimbursement of the cost of eating, but really only payable; the real income from work, then the income from the assets and capital income, and the funds that someone has in the transaction account. It is also important to extend the period of residence of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia by bringing his family together, from one year to two years, in particular in order to ensure greater security, the financial security of both those who are already employed in Slovenia and those who are coming, the real family members arriving in the Republic of Slovenia. An important novelty is also the introduction of Slovenian language skills, of course at some lowest level, which probably will not present any major problems, and it is right to learn at least the basics of Slovenian language, then at the end of the discussion I will also show you an example of why at least the basic level of Slovenian language knowledge is needed. Of course, knowledge of the Slovenian language is also raised from the lowest level after five years to a slightly higher level, which is also appropriate. But I would also like to tell you a little bit about the experience, because you've all wondered whether this really has so much impact on the mass of the influx of foreigners into our country, but I'll tell you from my previous working relationship, because I was employed in Ipez, that's where you know that as many people as possible, especially foreigners, have been coming in over a period of time, that's in those years 2015-2016, as well as in other years, but then the conditions for the establishment of companies have deteriorated and then this influx has been reduced a little. I have to tell you that during that period, in fact, there was a large, large number of people who wanted to open up businesses. The worst part was when either the father or someone came after some related relationship with the younger ones who also opened those companies, and in fact it seemed to enter a business world without experience, without knowledge of the Slovenian language, and it seemed that it was actually not just about coming to work in our country, but also for different purposes. Don't get me wrong. I also know people, and we are also personal friends who have come to Slovenia, have assimilated in Slovenia, learned the Slovenian language and are still enjoying themselves today, of course also maintaining their language and their roots. But when they are here, they have adapted to what our nation is, our society considers to be some kind of value of the nation. Finally, I will relate to what I told you, that I will stress to you why the knowledge of the Slovenian language is important, especially in the light of what I will read to you, not to say that I am going out of the debate, but to listen from the point of view of the use of the Slovenian language and not from the point of view of the epidemic. I come alone, as you all know, from Nova Gorica and until the new year, about there, we were one of the least infected regions. After the new year, these numbers began to turn. We were wondering why. Now maybe you'll figure out why. When applying for testing in Nova Gorica, it is also noted that this article, published today on the GO-portal, is also noted that some of the foreigners do not even have their own personal physician. Many people do not understand the Slovenian language, so they come to the tests with a translator. As a result, they can't even get the test results. When they receive a text message, they turn to the staff at the point for help and thus additionally burden these people, the report was written by the Deputy Commander of Civil Protection of the Municipality of Nova Gorica. It is the pompous return of foreign workers that has helped to keep the number of infections in Goriška from decreasing. In doing so, I would also like to point out that they do not know the language, and that is why they were unable to follow the instructions of the Government and the measures of the Government and come to these points by four persons in the car without protective equipment and already with signs of infection. This, then, is due to what appears to be the lack of such standards in our legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are talking first of all about the Foreigners Act and also further to the Law on International Protection, two extremely important, extremely extensive legislative changes. Why am I talking about change? The Aliens Act has more than 100 articles of amendments. The law itself, the law itself, as well as a few of these articles, is asking me here the question of what will be the origin of this legal and legal service. Therefore, I look forward to the following opinions as long as this law or its support for further consideration is given. But let's leave this stuff alone. Absolutely this law has been in preparation for a long time, although it has tried to coordinate itself, as it appears from the explanations themselves, but only energy has not been invested enough so that all other actors can be heard in this law. It is true that we have already faced both the refugee and the migrant crisis in the past, and in 2015 we are all aware of the difficulties we faced when people left their homes and wanted to cross the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia became a transit country because then Germany called for migrant workers to come, so I will say to them, and then what happened happened. And yes, that's when we handled it. I must say that there is a sincere thank-you in this place for all those who at the time have sacrificed themselves to this, I will say, the crisis that has also proved to us in the National Assembly that it is necessary to join. At that time, we also took steps together. In particular, what has been happening lately is the impact of citizens and citizens living on the border, where illegal border crossings are taking place. I believe that it is absolutely not easy for them, but I do not want to see myself in such a situation at any time, forced to leave home and seek better conditions and how I would then be treated. That's how we have to look at both aspects here. It is necessary to view both from a humanitarian perspective and to seek compromise among all. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its competent institutions must ensure high security for our citizens and citizens and also respect the man coming from elsewhere and guarantee him all rights under the international legal order. I also understand and absolutely expected this amendment as soon as possible, because the law must be aligned with the directives and regulations, but it is necessary, as I have said several times before, to respect international conventions and human rights. It saddens me that the Working Group on Asylum has marked this law as cruel and inhuman. I'd like to ask myself what's wrong with the government and try to compromise. Otherwise, it is even foretold that this law is unconstitutional. Opposition will, of course, be studied or evaluated by the Constitutional Court, so I do not want to talk about it, but I believe that things are simply not in conformity with international legal acts. But it is welcome and some things in the law itself are acceptable, but on the other hand there are those who suspend human rights, and this is a big problem for me. I also find this provision, which has already been a great deal of talk today, which provides for the suspension of international conventions on international protection with a complex crisis in the field of migration and the activation of management and management in the complex crisis, which therefore provides for a temporary limitation on the implementation of the International Protection Act. It seems even more problematic to me that a new proposal is being decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia without the National Assembly. At the time when we changed the law in 2015, we needed a two-thirds majority to limit so-called human rights due to this transition, and it would be absolutely necessary to think in this context that the National Assembly would also have its role here. That, in essence, this law, or these amendments to this article, is intended to prevent the Government from making an application for asylum, instead of an emergency, which is supposed to allow for an end to the judgment, and introducing this new, completely inappropriate deadline, which is called a complex crisis. I also find it difficult to eliminate the possibility that, in the case of passing a residence permit for other reasons, school-bound children should not be removed from the country. The Institute of Temporary Detention, a six-month suspension for the deportation of foreigners, has thus far been used and cannot be returned to the country of origin for objective reasons. It seems unacceptable to me that this is an opportunity to take away young people without an escort if they are guaranteed by their guardian. This I think will also need to be rectified further. However, I agree, of course, with the knowledge of Slovenian language first at level A1, but also with the provision of means of family survival. Today, the Minister has also talked several times about a residence permit for several persons, but this needs to be dealt with in parallel with the Residence Registration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my debate, I would focus more on the problems that foreigners have; foreign experts, professors, students, research institutions, the Faculty of Economics, for example. All administrative procedures that appear for a postgraduate course to be taught by a professor from South Korea. There are so many complications that it is almost impossible for him to teach when there are exchanges between professors and students. So I would ask because look, in principle, it is right that we have this exchange because knowledge is the future and we share that knowledge. Faculty of Economics, let's be a little proud of the achievements, Ljubljana is ranked among the first five hundred economic colleges in the world, and let's be proud of that. And if this one has postgraduate studies, let's see if anything can make these procedures easier. Some of them bring this marriage, but, say, the blue card is actually dead in Europe. It does not count, because qualifications or education are needed, acquired by the profession to ostrify and so on, therefore all of this keeps these procedures for exchange. Therefore, in this general debate, I might also ask the Minister if it is a reflection and if the possibility is in fact in some concrete contacts to find some solutions with his colleagues at the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, get Alice Jeraj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I think that in view of all the international political developments we have seen in recent years, and especially in the last two or three years, it has had a strong impact on the need to definitely correct the Foreign Act and the Law on International Protection in Slovenia, especially for security reasons. I think that it is necessary and that the greatest value in Slovenia is still security and freedom, as well as respect for human life. I must say that, in the light of these highest values, which are also the values of the European Union, of course, the law goes in this direction to protect the people of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I would like to touch myself in areas that I can say are increasingly worrying. This is, when foreigners come, also immigration, which is not related to migration or refugee, but if I may say so, generally I think it is certainly knowledge of the Slovenian language. I think that Slovenian is already one of the most threatened languages in the European Union, but I think it is necessary, as citizens, to make sure that something completely normal can never happen in the future and that the condition of knowledge of Slovenian is at the basic level as a condition for granting a permanent residence permit and that no one can challenge it. Those who live in Slovenia, today I have heard, have already been told, but in five years they learn some basics of the Slovenian language. That's not the problem. The problem is that we — and this is also pointed out by many congregations, many schools, principals, teachers — need to establish a condition that when someone comes to Slovenia, if these are children who go directly to school, this is the biggest problem for school, for teachers, and also for their peers in school. If Slovenians go or Slovenian children, Slovenian families go abroad if they go to study in Germany, Austria, knowledge of German is a condition. This means that almost ten months are further educated in German before going to a regular class, to a regular year of elementary school or high school. You should also consider this for Slovenia, that if someone who really does not know any Slovenian word, that it is necessary to introduce a previous Slovenian language, or that it is, you could also say that it becomes an obligation to conduct a few months course of basic Slovenian language knowledge before he can come and attend, I don't know, a math lesson, a history lesson and so on. It seems to me that this is extremely important and that, in light of today's debate, there has not been much to be heard about how important this is also in the integration of foreigners, migrants themselves, and I will tell economic migrants into our culture, into our language and into our country. It seems to me that here, in this place must also come to this distinction and, of course, also to consensus that some previous knowledge of the Slovenian language is necessary for everyone who would like anything else in this country, foreigners who do not speak Slovenian, live and, of course, also live with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only answer to Ambassador Starovic. So, look at these exchanges in colleges, or whoever comes to Slovenia, has two choices. If it comes from countries where visas are liberalised under agreements with Slovenia, it can come for 90 days within 180 days, within half a year without any problems. He comes to the border, shows a passport and he can come in, so he can teach at the university and so on. If the country where it comes from needs or requires a visa, it's like the Slovenian who has to go to America or fulfill that Viso Waiver gives it up, comes in without any problems, so this matter is completely solved by my assessment. But if someone wanted to – but these are not examples like you said now, at least I didn’t understand you that way, but not – if someone wanted to stay here and work in college for a long time, he must, of course, arrange all the papers relating to his residence and work. In this law we have now liberalized things so – I speak quite practically – if a Korean wants to come to Slovenia, he can only come with a passport, he is here 90 days. If, however, I would like to stay here and have the possibility that before he comes here, i.e. at the diplomatic representation, he gives his fingerprints, arranges all the papers and so on, he is here when he comes in on the basis of a tourist visa or tourist entry, now he does not have to go back to his country to pick up all these papers on the DKP, but he can do it on our administrative unit or our administrative unit in the country, i.e. in the country of Slovenia. Of course, it remains, like anywhere else in the world or in 90 percent of the world, that things for permanent stay and work — those who want them — are regulated in our DKP abroad. So all these applications, fingerprints and all the other documentation need to be sorted before entry. So I think that these problems, as you mentioned them, should not, in principle, be now, given that these professors usually come for a week or two, maybe for one month, so they're here without problems, but if they want to work longer, they have to get the right permission, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. I'm guessing she's not here. Mag. Dusan Verbich is not present either. And there's Nick the Pretzel. And get Daniel the Cretaceous ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! We are nearing the end of the debate on the Law on International Protection, but I must say that today I am positively surprised by the rather calm debate between Members and Members, despite the fact that our opinions differ in a certain part. As far as the subject is concerned. I think we all agree that, no matter what, this is a sensitive subject both at political level and at some substantive level for both the user and the contractor. A number of discussions have already been held on this subject in view of the broad theme. We have also had a few committees, a pact on migration and asylum is being drawn up at European level, which also includes certain things, and of course it makes sense that we continue to discuss such discussions or topics further. My colleagues and I have already agreed on certain points of view, again with others we have diametrically opposed positions. However, this whole debate is very democratic in my opinion that we are discussing this in Parliament, even though they are different. This is not the last basic task of Parliament. However, if this bill were to be okay, there would probably be no debate today. We'd agree on that and move on. But since that is not the case, it seems appropriate for us to point out what is also at stake in our assessment. As far as this complex crisis is concerned. This is a term that is essentially unknown to both our constitution and our legislation. I do not think I need to recall Article 92 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly states that the state can declare an extraordinary or war state and, when declaring one or the other on a proposal from the Government, decide on the National Assembly. The proposal before us, therefore, for a complex crisis in the event of migration or anything else to be announced by the Government on a proposal from the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of the Interior, is controversial. Just because of that article I mentioned earlier, the case was in the previous phase, so when we had some worse migratory pressure in our country, it had already fallen and was also abolished later in the Constitutional Court. This was 2016. Remember, at that time this National Assembly adopted a law that contained a guardian in a very similar way, but that the announcements of such a crisis must be decided by Members and Members, i.e. elected representatives of the people. That it cannot be decided by the executive branch of power. But one more time. According to what the Constitution says, this article has also been repealed. Therefore, Minister, it will be difficult to convince me that such an arrangement you now propose offers a solution. Just the opposite. I think there is an even greater contradiction, as the Government, which is the executive branch of the government, offers an even greater option of making a decision on its own. However, if you are judging that there are no other solutions, but that the matter is fully in line with European Union law, I do not know why you do not bring a proposal to amend the Constitution and this Article, add a complex crisis, then the National Assembly will decide with a two-thirds majority whether or not that is possible. And we wouldn't have any questions about that. If I continue, I may conclude with this complex crisis, which has already been discussed. I think sometimes in our country we still have to pour pure wine and look at the matter as it is; black or white or whatever it is. Clearly, certain things need to be corrected, but the legislation is alive and changing. Certain things need to be improved, and I particularly appreciate that we need to find solutions. I think that is why we are all here together, and the European Union is also one whose members we must work together with the countries to find the right solutions. The Minister and I have discussed this a number of times, and there are some things you might even look at in a similar way. I think that migration and the admission of foreigners to the country are my own, not only will we talk later about the International Protection Act, but some fact that we are difficult to change in its entirety can be limited in some part but we cannot destroy it. Finally, the whole European Union is facing a shortage of labour, a force that creates capital in the country, and that is why the admission of foreigners, those who want to be in our country, is good; of course, provided that in our country they integrate and respect the rules that apply in our country. Once again, in the LMŠ we certainly believe that we must respect the decisions and the legislation that we are adopting, both at European level and at the wider international level, so that we respect the things that we have decided to do well. As far as integration is concerned. This is what I think is crucial to this law, which deals with the issue of foreigners. So that people who want to stay with us, not least the people who have been granted international protection, we successfully integrate into our social system to get to know our society, culture, of course, to learn our language – here I agree – and then prosper here. You know, these people here pay taxes, they create here, and no matter where they come from, I still think we need to clarify ourselves, these are people anyway, and of course, on condition that they enter our country legally. The Minister, the bill also has some others, in my opinion and in the opinion of the party, disputed solutions, which I have already mentioned, namely that you leave the police with a full assessment of whether or not there remain obstacles to international protection in the neighbouring country. I will only give you one case that I have recently learned about, namely a Turkish migrant who was persecuted for his political beliefs, who sought refuge in neighbouring countries and under our rules as well as any other country that he has crossed, whether Croatia is considered a safe country, but this foreigner who opposes some of the policies of the ruling Erdogan is, of course, justifiably seeking such protection in Slovenia, because the Slovenian political system at the time did not agree with the one that operates in Turkey, while in some other countries that he has crossed, there was a chance that the government system would use such a position against him because of some parallels to that political system. Therefore, it may not be entirely good for the police, who, in my personal opinion, are extremely professional and highly respected, but I do not think they have the basic ability to judge such a matter. As far as I know, Minister, this is not only my warning, but you have been warned by the ministries in your own government as well as many other stakeholders. I'm so interested in why you insist on your own. Perhaps to conclude; I have repeatedly pointed out that we will have to be aware of what as a society – but not just Slovenian – is a broader European and also a global problem – we are doing in areas where there are many migrations. I fear that migrations coming from areas near the equator will increase over time. Last but not least, there is a political crisis, not a war crisis, but a climate crisis. As a result of this climate crisis, people are hungry, people are without water, and they emigrate to foreign countries, even illegally, because they have no other choice. First of all, I agree that such legislation, which is primarily intended for foreigners only and only, must protect Slovenian citizens and the Slovenian state, that is its purpose, but must take into account the difficulties of people who, for such or other movements within the European continent or something else, must also decide. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, Minister Alesh Hoys, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Nick Prebil. See, your debate was, in a way, very coherent and given what you said you were willing to essentially help with the adoption of this law, to the extent that appropriate explanations were, of course, given. I am pleased that we will be able to make very relevant explanations to what you have said, and I hope that they will convince you that I will only talk about the facts. First of all, let me say that what you have somehow stated is that complex crises in our legislation are not, not true. It is true that in the Constitution we are talking about emergency situations, but this is what I think I would most easily read in order to see where the complex crisis is and when it has occurred and in fact how it is defined. By the way, only a complex crisis was defined more precisely at the Faculty of Social Sciences, i.e. in defence, where they told exactly what this complex crisis is and what it is not. So, by amending Article 20 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 2017, well ahead of us, I think that at the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, which was adopted after the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners, a complex crisis has been identified within the framework of the crisis management and management system. The complex crisis is defined in the Government Act. We have not defined it, it has been defined by another government and has been defined since 2017. With a complex crisis, in accordance with Article 20 of that Law, the phenomena, events or situations are considered to occur, I stress this here because – Mrs Violete is not here, but she talked about that this could be just a natural accident or a fire or an earthquake or something like that. So far from it. So, "an event or situation of greater threat to fundamental social values and to a worse natural or other disaster, and associated major uncertainties and relatively short time for action, exceeding the response capacity of individual ministries, government services and the subsystem of the national security system. In this context, fundamental social values include the preservation of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the country, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, constitutional democracy, the effective functioning of the rule of law and social state, the provision of public order and peace, the effective functioning of the economy, the protection of the health and life of the inhabitants and a high level of security, effective protection of the environment, the preservation of natural resources and the provision of strategic resources and the preservation of cultural heritage.” So it's a whole series of crisis situations, so it's also called a complex crisis, which, of course, is a long way from just being linked to some natural disaster. Vuga Bershnak and Ferlin in the publication Preparation and Response to Complex Crisises, 2018, explain that it is a condition to provide crisis management functions and to manage the pre-definition of possible complex and sectoral crises that can reach the scale of crises at national level. Under this condition, it is possible to assess the actual risk of a complex crisis and its development and to anticipate an appropriate response, including monitoring the situation and potential identification of new complex crises. The complex crisis relates to state-level crises, but this is not so high a level of systemic non-action in order to require a declaration of war or state of emergency – so it has been very clear that we are not in a position to declare war or state of emergency, but we are declaring a complex crisis. The potential causes of the complex crisis are defined by the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the end of 2019 – that is, before our Government – which replaced the Resolution on the 2010 National Security Strategy. The resolution, like its predecessor based on Article 10a of the Aliens Act, recognises the risk of modified migration conditions for public order and internal security as a reason for the emergence of a complex crisis – so it is precisely what may be the reason for the complex crisis – while risk factors due to the unpredictable nature of migration are difficult to predict and affect the emergence of other security threats. It follows from the resolution — that is, once again, the 2019 resolution — that illegal migration is one of the serious and real threats and risks to national security. The pressure of illegal migration flows on the Republic of Slovenia in general, and most likely in the future, will be able to define the socioeconomic and political security situation in both the world and the region. A greater number of illegal or mass uncontrolled migrations can in general endanger the safety and well-being of the people of our country and represent a significant burden for the entire national security system of the Republic of Slovenia. The increased migratory pressure on the Republic of Slovenia is not limited to the number of persons who illegally enter or try to enter the country, even though from neighbouring EU countries. This is not to be overlooked by the yet detected methods of mass crossing in very small areas where the control and implementation of all procedures are extremely difficult. However, in the event of pressure on several areas, such a situation may become uncontrollable. All of these rules have an impact on the individual wider or narrower environment. It may also indirectly affect the deterioration of security conditions, the development of extremism, internal political conditions and the external political situation of the Republic of Slovenia. So, I think it is such a precise definition that we have not written, written by experts, which was adopted in 2019 by the Government Act 2017, and we do not do anything else in this Law on Foreigners than just summarise what the predecessors have already done. And the answer to your second question. Here, too, I must say that we absolutely did not wish, did not think, that the police would be the one to judge whether someone came from a country that was not safe, or whether someone came from a country where all the mechanisms for refugee protection were not working. Just the opposite! If you look at it, we have clearly stated in the explanation of the law that we leave this judgment and can only be merciless and will only be given by the EU institution. In particular, I can say that this has already happened in 2009-2010, when it comes to major migratory pressures in Greece, the EU is an institution, i.e. the Luxembourg court, and I think that somewhere else, it has decided and told which countries we might consider to be not safe, which we can no doubt know is where the mechanisms for requesting or processing those who want refugee status are not established, so of course we have no idea of doing so ourselves; not the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but even less the police. So in this case too, we will leave this matter to the EU institutions. To the extent that, I say, strictly domestically, some EU list of institutions that do this, the courts say that Croatia is a country that does not fulfil this, then it is clear that all those who come here from Croatia will not have to process, under the terms of reference, under the fact that they have not been able to do so in Croatia. If Croatia is on this list, this will mean that all those who come from Croatia have not been able to do so there and will need to process them properly. However, unless Croatia is on this list, there is no reason for the police to say alone or anyone that Croatia is there or is not. We leave this decision to the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The replica's got Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. I have to respond because the minister interpreted my words a little differently, as they were said. I understand everything, and I also agree with how they determine a safe and not a safe country, but this was not my point; my point was in what I mentioned as an example of what could happen if someone crossed a safe country, and his life could still be threatened by his political, religious or other beliefs. But, as it is said, this includes the Law on International Protection, which is a broader topic. As for the complex crisis, I know this document, too, Minister, but my point was here somewhere else. Mostly in the work of not being in the constitution. We know that the Constitution is our highest legislative and legal act, which must be respected by both this institution and your institution. So all the legislation adopted by this National Assembly must comply with this legal basis, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In article 92 of the Constitution there is no such complex crisis, and that is why the Constitutional Court in the past is also, after that law in 2006 in the Foreigners Act, such a possibility – but we know what the problems were when the numbers were 10,000 and also 100,000 – the Constitutional Court annulled, however, because it did not comply with our Slovenian Constitution. Minister, even if I agree with you and I will help you, it's not about me agreeing with you or not. It is that you have brought legislation, which your coalition is likely to confirm, that we in the opposition are obliged to draw attention to mistakes and certain disputed provisions. This does not mean that we do not understand the situation; a situation that may arise later and measures that may need to be envisaged to react quickly and effectively in the part where I have already spoken in my position. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Representative, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you. I don't want to paralyze, but look, Mr. Prebil, the fact is that the Government Act, which defined this complex crisis, was adopted in 2017 and that no one has, under the terms of reference, woke up to something unconstitutional. Even in the Government Act, which speaks of a complex crisis, no one has said now, because we do not have the complex crisis enshrined in the constitution, there would be something wrong with this law. So I guess it's not. Another thing; I would like to say, if you read both articles carefully, i.e. the amendment of Articles 10a and 10b, you will see that we have involved something else, not just a complex crisis. And in our opinion, we believe that the matter is constitutionally undeniable. Of course, I cannot say that the Constitutional Court will think otherwise. We have sat for this law, frankly, hours and hours with the highest representatives of the legal profession. I can start by listing them – help me Nataš – i.e. lawyer Zupančič, lawyer Avbelj, lawyer from Saša Zagorc Law School, then those, I do not know, I do not have all the writings, then Rok Svetlič, and so on, where they themselves have come to some conclusion that the matter is extremely complicated and that they understand the concerns that may arise, as they were created in 2016, and that we are simply not able to write some solutions that we could sovereignly claim that the Constitutional Court could decide otherwise. [[…]] So, I'm sure, I believe our proposal is constitutionally undeniable. But I cannot put my hands in the fire for this, because even the top legal experts in this country have told me that they do not see the form or the record at this point, which could be said to be 100 per cent that the matter is constitutionally indisputable. Interestingly, however, everyone has somehow established that we are in a great loop, that everyone is aware of legal problems, that what happens in the face of such a crisis can, where we do not have a solution, such a clean legal solution. I expect that the case, at least in the light of the constant appeals to the Constitutional Court, will probably also be subject to a constitutional judgment, but I am somehow convinced that, as far as this Constitutional Court will see it, even in the light of what it is possible to do in the context of our legislation at all, that this article or amendment of these articles, given that we have summed up to the greatest extent what the Constitutional Court has found in the repeal of past years, that we have tried to eliminate those flaws in the law, so that the matter could also pass the Constitutional Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica, Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you. I'll be brief. Minister, it's not my place to judge constitutionality. It is up to me to point out where the problem is or where the problem might arise, and I have done so. It is not my goal now to say what is unconstitutional and what is not unconstitutional. However, I have said that the Constitutional Court has not been the same about this, on a similar matter, that we have clearly judged once, and we have found unconstitutionality. But it's all about you and us, like I said, we're looking for solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Today, the actual substantive red thread of the entire debate that is in force in this law and those that follow is in fact the issue of legality, respect for the rule of law and consistency in respect for our legal order and those international acts that bind us – first of all from the Charter of Human Rights, the UN to, if you wish, international acts such as the Dublin Agreement – and of course its constitution, laws and regulations. That should be self-inflicted. Unfortunately, all the debate we have today shows that this is not self-evident for some. There's also a lot of manipulation of concepts. When it comes to legal migration – in the Foreigners Act there are the primary legal migrations – two completely different things need to be separated. One is that normal human migration: someone goes abroad, meets a girl, brings her here or he stays there and there is some migration. That was all history. These migrations, on the one hand, connect, on the other hand, make a fortune, this is the most normal thing in the world. Secondly, mass migrations, which are artificially caused by either political, financial or personal, are all other interests that should not be a fundamental guide, but at least in the design of law. And history here is perfectly clear. Mass migration always and without exception throughout history is a flood, the end of a civilization. It is interesting when we talk about these things today, how can we say simply forget how the Roman Empire failed? The Roman Empire was destroyed by the German tribes, they said, look, they're after us, we have a war, we want asylum with you, and the Romans let them in. You won't believe it, two generations then lived in peace, the third generation took arms, broke the Roman Empire, and there was nothing left of old Rome's civilization. This is very interesting as a lesson, for all history is here to learn from it. When it comes to the individual concepts with which it is being operated today, it is necessary to be perfectly clear. All of you speak now – and this is also the subject of the next law, I meant to start it there, but given that all the debate has already been held now – that the Constitutional Court has once repealed one provision that it has laid down, be careful that, if the functioning of the State itself is threatened, certain additional restrictions can be imposed and that at the border or where they are found, people are refused without specific procedures. Watch out when it comes to the normal functioning of the country when it's threatened. And the Constitutional Court said no. It is said that the Constitutional Court allows the state to fail, to break down, to destroy itself, so that a foreigner who has illegally entered the state of Slovenia will have an advantage over the one who lives here. Of course this is the biggest scandal in the history of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but you will say, yes, this is true. Yes, it is true – we fully agree here, the rule of law must be respected, it was the judgment of the Constitutional Court. But what is more interesting: do you know that this is contrary to European law? You've all talked about our constitution, but what about the European acquis? The European acquis are international acts together, those which bind all of us, and, of course, then various agreements. And you will not believe that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights also fall into the European legal order, which, in a similar case, is less extreme than that provided for by this law. And what has the European Court of Human Rights established? It was a historical judgment, and it's two years old, and I think, three months, if I'm accurate. It has decided that if a group of illegal migrants enters the territory of a country, they will automatically lose the right to individual treatment and can be completely rejected immediately, so that the country can continue to function normally. This is the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the European law that our Constitutional Court has obviously overlooked in that case, whether or not it has already known or not, or whatever you wish. But this judgment that I am talking about, the European Court of Justice, is true. And so, you won't believe it, in this sense it binds us. That's why everything you've been saying is completely irrelevant. For what the Government proposes in this law is less than what has already been judged by the European Court of Human Rights. All clear? Let us look at other things that have been discussed today. It was said that integration was needed. This law now introduces for the first time in Slovenia something that virtually all European countries have. That's so you can ask for some extra credit, because entry, or if you want to break into a country is not a human right, it's a credit card, so you can get some status there. And for you to get some social status or some other status in this country, you need language skills, you need integration. All European legislation of comparable countries is geared towards integration. And also this law is broken from this point of view, it is positive, it is a step in the right direction because it assumes that it will be necessary to show the knowledge of the Slovenian language after first residence if you want a permanent stay, and every time it will be a higher level. I only hope that, following the Austrian example, this level can be raised further in the process so that this consensus can be reached, because this is a European consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Integration is a European consensus. And when you talk about integration, you need to know what that means. Integration means that whoever comes, gets to know your language, your culture, your tradition, with everything that consists of your country's normal social life, they accept it as their own, and they live here. It's integration. It is not integration that someone comes to Slovenia and says that now all Slovenia will have to adapt to it. And it is interesting that half of Slovenian politics in doing so almost screams that Slovenia should then adapt to whoever comes. No, ladies and gentlemen. Slovenia is like, it has a thousand-year tradition, it has a nation, it has a constitution, it has a constitution, it has a reference to it. After the constitution itself, the Slovenian people are a fundamental constitutional element, an inseparable constitutional element of the Slovenian state. The Slovenian state cannot exist without the Slovenian nation because it is based on the right of the Slovenian nation to self-determination. If once the Slovenian Constitution is cited, it is necessary to know that the Constitution must be seen as a whole, the Constitution must be read as a whole and understood and understood in the context of the acquis to which we have acceded, that is, in the present case, the acquis of the European Union. What's he like? With this crucial judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, of course, it shows things in the right light, and I am very pleased that this has been the first step in the right direction for many years also in the legal system. It is also important to integrate as quickly as possible, that it is encouraged by the relevant legislation, and therefore that law follows it. This objective is properly addressed here. What is more, the problem is that many times, with big words, what does this mean from a human standpoint — which we have today, and three times worse in the next marriage — is that it is only money. In this way, as has been the case so far, many individuals have been impertinently rich at the expense of those who are coming, as well as some of these. But it's a crime. It was an illegal act that was allowed, tolerated, looked away or whatever you wanted. In practice: for some people to bring people from the south to Slovenia, they have cashed very large money to these people, it is estimated that 3,000 euros was the minimum they earned after one. Now imagine that only the Cranian administrative unit has processed 5,000 individuals in a year and a half, and multiply how much money that was. But it is about humanism, about respect for the fellow human being – yes, of course. Respect for green bills, and everything else nobody cares about. And since there is no proper control then, which I think people should be responsible for already within the existing legislation – and I hope that this will be properly monitored and sanctioned – has not been checked nor has the information needed to follow up on the procedure. At first it went to the institution and there someone declared that he had some education which is deficient in Slovenia. This could have been proved by anyone, according to his own words, by the paper, that was clearly not checked further. Do you know what it's like to be in the famous Balkans? You know that old joke, and for many years now it's completely up-to-date: good day, we're in Pristina, we're gonna stop for two hours, you can go to one coffee, or you can do some school or high school, university, just as you like. You all know how that went, and unfortunately, to a large extent, that's still the way it went. If appropriate controls are not carried out somewhere, illegality is in fact tolerated. And after you got confirmation at the office that you were a member of a deficient profession, you went to an administrative unit that didn't check anything again, and then suddenly everything was possible. That the measure was full, we could see it with our own eyes, not once, believe me, a thousand times, people have already come with a list of all social rights, and he's just listed what else to give him. And then one year went by, one year at some real or fictional firm where it was registered at some address, and there was a family, possibly 10, 12 pieces. And then all of these were put back on social welfare without – the one behind it proved, yes, that he had income, but based on this year, when these things were once here, no one was exercising any control in practice. At least on the part where I had the opportunity to observe it, I know it was. And then simply those who got work permits took advantage of the Schengen, went either to Germany or elsewhere in Europe, many went to Switzerland in the past, too, until Switzerland began to deal with these things a little more restrictively, and left all the others who brought them to the social Republic of Slovenia. What does that mean in practice? This means that for those who work honestly and live in Slovenia, less money for education, less money for health care, less money for pensions, less money for Slovenian development has been cut short. It is said, yes, because we need a workforce – ladies and gentlemen, those who have worked have moved on, they have not worked in Slovenia. That's why it's a total abuse of the system and it's been tolerated for years and years, because some of these promises have been made to them publicly, and look at the promises they made on the Internet: we'll do everything we can to stop any control, to stop the visas, to stop everything that's hindering you. [[…]] That's why we're in a position like this. It's not the same everywhere, and it's interesting. All administrative units in Slovenia should work in the same way, under the same legislation, and this does not happen in practice. Ask yourself why not. Apparently, there's some respect for the marriage, but there's no other place. Because that's the only explanation. I could say something else about corruption and something like that, but that would have taken us a long way. But you know, even if someone abandons his duty, it's also a crime. I personally had the opportunity to hear that it was happening that people came with that trustee who was supposed to be a lawyer, and it wasn't even checked out, and no one even checked everything they gave them there. He was just ordering, and then there was no checking. Yes, wait, the law of administrative procedure is crystal clear. It is said that some have conscientiously abandoned their obligation to do so. Then, that measure was full, the police tried many times to solve what was possible, I was personally familiar with several such cases, including the Krajina area and they filed an application to the administrative unit, but the man who was registered there apparently does not live here. [[…]] This is said to be obvious abuse, which means that appropriate legal action should be followed. And the administrative unit put it in the drawer, and eventually in six months, she went to check something out or not. But if she went to check it out, everyone was informed in advance that, on the day of the review, they made sure that the situation was the way it was supposed to be, and then it went back to the way it was supposed to be. Even the director of the Cranian Centre for Social Work, when we discussed this on the Cranian City Council, said directly that it was the Mafia, that it was obviously organised crime, because otherwise it could not be said. But so far it has not been allowed to do so because of, I don't know, political correctness or I don't know why to do it. Although they do these things because of double standards, they are always tense in society. There are also tensions that are different from what someone sometimes imagines. Tensions, for example, are between those who, if you want, came from Kosovo 30 years ago or earlier, have families here, have integrated, have some businesses, whatever, and those who are now coming in mass. Because these were individual arrivals, and these are now mass migrations, which are legal, were within this framework, but only legal because there was obviously no proper control. And that's what this is all about. However, if we want everyone to respect the law and the Constitution in its entirety, it is clear that due control is needed, that the law must have adequate safeguards that will prevent or at least minimise any possibility of abuses that we pay dearly to Slovenia and Slovenia as taxpayers. That's the point of this marriage. This marriage is really just the first step, and I think it should have many more guards, including stronger ones. The neighbouring countries already have such guards. Although time no longer allows me to introduce them to you, this law is, after many years, the first step in the right direction. That is why I welcome him and very much support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. I'm guessing he's not here. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. I therefore conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 1. 2021, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the international protection law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 38th Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovci, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior. I understand he's not in the hall. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, the esteemed choir! Slovenia is a sovereign state. An important and strong member of the Schengen area, which allows the European Union to free the movement of people and goods. Last but not least, we are a proud member of the European Union, who is at an important crossroads of migration flows throughout history. However, increasing population growth, climate change, conflicts in third countries and the desire of individuals to improve their lives create the emigration of millions of people. Events that seem to take place far away have direct and indirect effects on Europe and Slovenia, and challenges and difficulties are often felt by citizens and citizens at the border. Unfortunately, international law has for some time not provided adequate answers to today's migration challenges. We need to develop the fundamental principles of international law that will meet the spirit and challenges of time. In New Slovenia, we welcome the new Pact on Migration and Asylum of the European Commission, launched during the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which provides for a comprehensive common European framework for migration and asylum management. Christian Democrats respect the human rights of all people, but we stress that security is the fundamental right of all citizens of Slovenia, and this right must be protected by all means acceptable. International law must protect the statehood of individual countries and their citizens, and countries must have control over whom they will accept into their own country and how they will distinguish between different reasons for their escape. There is a clear need to distinguish between legal and illegal migration. With the Law on International Protection, which is now under first reading at this House of Democracy, the current government and its coalition partners have only listened to the call of citizens and citizens that the existing law must be upgraded to try to remedy existing shortcomings. Changes are necessary and necessary in order to increase the number of applications submitted for international protection in Slovenia and thus an increasingly burdensome system of international protection. Over the last period, more than half of all applications come from citizens whose countries of origin are safe and their applications for international protection are primarily of an economic nature. In New Slovenia, we are deeply saddened that the current legal framework of international protection is being misused to monitor the continuation of the path to Member States with better social policy, which gives us a good indication of the number of shut-off procedures. More than 80% of the people did not wait for the ruling of the legal state of the Republic of Slovenia, but they were lost throughout Europe. This, in our view, represents security and social risks in the European Union. New Slovenia has repeatedly been reminded by citizens and citizens of border municipalities of a large number of rejected personal documents, which could greatly facilitate administrative procedures for the competent authorities below. Since the esteemed National Assembly knows that the existing law already governs the possibility of refusing an application for international protection if the applicant obviously fails to fulfil the conditions and is given one of the legitimate reasons, we have supplemented the proposal to specifically note and take into account whether, in a particular case, there is a reasonable reason for the applicant to leave the country of origin without a personal document. Without a personal document, it is very difficult to determine the age of the person seeking international assistance, so the proposal provides that the competent authority, if, on the basis of the opinion of the persons involved in the work of a unaccompanied minor, doubts about the age of the applicant, orders the preparation of an expert opinion before making an application for international protection. The practice so far has shown a lack of a system and a lack of legal basis to limit the movement of the applicant even in the event of a threat. This measure is necessary for certain restrictive measures in order to establish in the procedure all the facts which could not be obtained without the measure. In view of the poor experience of the authorities in the proceedings, the measure of compulsory detention in the asylum area will be appropriated immediately and not as it is now in practice following the submission of an application for international protection. In New Slovenia we support clearly defined rules, which also need to be followed by applicants for international protection. Therefore, the proposal, which in certain cases allows the closure or limitation of the operation of the allowance, is welcome. In doing so, the decision shall be taken individually and the decision shall take into account the specific situation of the applicant and the principle of proportionality. We welcome the amendment whereby the applicant, if it is found that he has sufficient own resources, has to cover a proportionate part of the accommodation and education. Because of past abuses in Novi Slovenija, we have proposed that the monthly allowance should not be paid if the applicant: without permission to leave the place of residence, secondly, does not fulfil the obligation to inform the competent authorities or to participate in a personal interview, and thirdly, makes the violation of the residence referred to in Article 82a more severe, violence, intolerance, intentional damage and so on. Finally, I would like to add that the proposal for a law allows us to appeal to the Supreme Court even in cases where the Administrative Court in the judgment does not simply establish a different factual situation than the competent authority and therefore amends the decision of the competent authority. This ensures respect for Article 25 of the Constitution, which is the right to a remedy. The proposed proposals of the Law on International Protection will provide a clearer legal framework that will facilitate and speed up administrative procedures that will partially restore Slovenia and thus give the European Union a more stable, safer migration policy. Christian Democrats follow the objective of including persons recognised under the Law on International Protection as soon as possible in programmes of integration, education and the course of Slovenian language, especially the introduction of Slovenian society. Members of New Slovenia welcome the proposed changes and we will unanimously support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Migration is a sensitive topic that concerns not only Slovenia and Europe, but also the whole world. They're a sensitive subject, but a subject we have to face. There is no exception to the impact of mass migration on the burden of international protection systems in the EU Member States and Slovenia. Migration is also a very important political issue that can ultimately affect the fate of the European Union. When considering the law governing international protection, it should be stressed that the regulation of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia is based on common European asylum legislation. The provisions of the Law on International Protection are thus largely the result of the transposition of the provisions of the European Regulations and Directives. You need to be aware of that. The proposer, this is the Government, states that amendments to the Law on International Protection are important due to the increasing number of applications for international protection and consequently due to an increasingly burdened system of international protection. In this regard, according to the Government, a large number of requests have been made for the purpose of misuse of the procedure. Last year, more than 80% of the procedures for international protection were subsequently suspended. The novelty is thus intended to contribute to a faster and more effective procedure for international protection, and it is intended to address the shortcomings that have been demonstrated so far in practice. The proposal provides for the possibility of rejecting the application as manifestly unfounded if the applicant obviously does not meet the conditions for international protection. As a result of a warning from the Supreme Court, a legal basis is established for the conduct of proceedings where the risk of the applicant escaping is to be demonstrated. The criteria defining the risk of escape shall also be laid down. In addition, the provisions of the proposal will allow for the preparation of an expert opinion prior to the application for asylum if the competent authority doubts the age of the applicant claiming to be a unaccompanied minor. It is often the case that migrants, when entering the territory of a given country, represent as minors that they are then given special protection, even though they are not. The applicant who has sufficient own resources for survival will also no longer be entitled to the allowance. The possibility of a complaint before the Supreme Court is being reopened, which, according to the applicant, will contribute to a more uniform and harmonised case law. Such a complaint will be possible in cases where the administrative court in the judgment does not establish a different factual situation than the competent authority and will therefore change the decision of the competent authority. The proposal for a law contains rather restrictive provisions. If adopted, Slovenia will get a little closer to countries with rather restrictive asylum legislation, such as Hungary. A number of comments were therefore made mainly by NGOs at the proposal of the law and some of the proposed provisions were also raised by the Ministry of Justice. The deadline for bringing an action, e.g. against a decision issued in an accelerated procedure, shall be reduced to three days from eight days. This could constitute an intervention in the right to judicial protection, the Ministry considers. In such a short time, it is difficult to find appropriate legal assistance and to make a quality suit, especially when it comes to foreigners. The criteria defining the risk of escape could also be assessed as questionable. Thus, applicants for international protection would be regarded as benevolent in the event that they are dealt with for three offences against public order and peace and for breaches of the rules governing the state border and foreigners, weapons and illicit drugs. Such a measure could be excessive, as the applicant may have a drasticly limited movement on the basis of these criteria. In the SAB Group, we are aware that asylum legislation, both at the European level and at the national level, as a result, is not complete and contains quite a few gaps. I reiterate that this legislation has been prepared for some other times, such as those we are facing in Europe after 2015. And, as it is said, migration is a challenge for the entire international community and not just the problem of each Member State, but not just the problem of those countries that are on the so-called escape route. Therefore, in the opinion of the SAB, this issue must first be addressed at European Union level and thus ensure uniform and effective legislation for all members. Indeed, the abuse of these practices often occurs in practice, slowing down the entire system and doing wrong to those who really need help because they flee their country of origin because they protect their lives or their loved ones. It will therefore be necessary to find solutions that will help those who really need it and those for whom such a system has also been prepared. On the other hand, in the SAB we agree that legislation must be such that it successfully prevents abuses. We therefore reiterate that, above all, it is necessary to insist and seek uniform legislative and other solutions at the level of the European Union and to change everything that has proved to be unsustainable in practice and that the national legislation of individual Member States should then follow such changes. We will not support the SAB Group's proposal because of certain concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Even though in Europe, in the past, we would have managed to master a major migration wave, this wave has been proof of the existence of deep and lasting factors that will affect developments in the near future. These factors include political confusion in the Middle East and the Middle East, and much more importantly, an extremely large difference in income between Europe, Asia and Africa. In the long run, the trend of these differences will become unsustainable. Only an increase in economic migration can be expected. Comprehensive migration management is an imperative of European policy and a common European asylum system is the basis. The Law on International Protection transposes two European Directives into the Slovenian legal order, one of which governs joint procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of international protection and the other standards for the admission of applicants for international protection. This is how Slovenian legislation is coordinated with the legislation of the remaining Member States. In the debate on asylum or international protection, it is worth mentioning that in the last 25 years, since 1995, international protection in Slovenia has been granted to 989 people, an average of 40 per year. In the Desus Group, it is particularly important that the basic concept of the novel is not intended to make it difficult to obtain international protection, but rather to prevent the abuse of procedures. The existing law regulates the possibility of refusing an application as manifestly groundless in an accelerated procedure if the applicant clearly does not meet the conditions for international protection and one of the legitimate reasons is given. Those reasons also indicate the likelihood that the applicant has maliciously destroyed or withdrawn a personal document or a travel document that would help determine his or her identity or nationality. This reason is complemented by the proposal by the fact that, in its assessment, it is particularly relevant whether, in a particular case, there is a reasonable reason for the applicant to leave the country of origin without a personal document. In the case of daily work, it often turns out that the circumstances in individual cases are not such as to give a reasonable reason why the applicant does not have a personal document. The purpose of such work is clear: it is a matter of deceiving the competent authorities with regard to the real age, and more than once it is a matter of concealing the applicant’s country of origin. Different age for children, minors or adults means different treatment and degree of legal protection or protection. The provision of reception conditions is particularly problematic as unaccompanied minors are provided with separate accommodation or are placed in a suitable establishment for them. If the true age is not established as soon as possible from the stated intention to submit applications for international protection, inappropriate accommodation may occur. For unaccompanied children or minors, which are one of the most vulnerable groups and several victims of various abuses, additional procedural guarantees are provided for in the legal amendment. Also adapted reception conditions. The aim is to establish as soon as possible all relevant facts and identity of the applicant with a view to ensuring an adequate legal basis. This is most often the case where, on the basis of the opinion of officials or persons involved in the work of unaccompanied minors, the competent authority doubts the age of the applicant’s intention and therefore directs the preparation of an expert opinion before submitting an application for international protection. Members of the Desus Group estimate that they are meaningful provisions referring to the restriction of the applicant's movement. This is particularly necessary when the procedure shows the likelihood or risk of the applicant escaping, which is also common practice in Slovenia. There is no relevant legal basis in the law in force due to the absence of a definition of the circumstances of the risk of escape. It is not possible for the applicant to limit the movement despite the fact that there is no doubt that there is a danger of escape. Similar arrangements are known in some other countries of the European Union, whose good practices we like to summarize. For example, Austria restricts the movement to the reception centre area to applicants in the process of determining the admissibility of the application and in Germany, restrictions on movement within the territory of the Federal Land where the applicant is established, and in the first three months, the applicant may also have an additional restricted movement only to a specific location. Ladies and gentlemen, migration is currently a major European problem. If it used to be true that geography determines our view of the world, then it is clear in our own here and now that history is nothing more than practical geography. Members of the Desus Group are aware of this and support that migration is regulated as carefully as possible. We believe that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u132	Nice greetings to all present! The bill should adopt a stricter criminal policy to recognise international protection. In the Slovenian National Party, we demand that national security, public benefit and security of people and property be guaranteed first. The basic procedural guarantees are provided and you have waived the obligation to cooperate with applicants in identifying the identity and other elements referred to in the Article of the Directive. We also propose the legalisation of the offence of abandoning cooperation. It should also be explicitly laid down that the costs of interpretation and translation to monitor procedures under this law are borne by the applicant. There are also cases of translators working occasionally for migrants and even suspects. We also demand that the remedies be linked to the likely prospects for the success of the procedure. The Administrative Procedure Act also provides that reimbursement is required immediately or no later than the end of the proceedings and not within three months. You have also forgotten that the Marriage and Family Relations Act no longer applies because it was replaced by the Family Code. We believe that the reimbursement of the costs and the reward for the work done by the legitimate representative should burden the applicant or the international organisation, rather than impose the funds on the Ministry. The applicant should also not be recognised as a fugitive if the charge against him has become legal or the main proceedings have been opened on the basis of an indictment. It would make sense to adapt the legal dictatorship to arrange the removal, expulsion of a foreigner from the country for the same reason as in the previous sentence. We would also expect the costs of setting up an expert to suffer either the applicant or the international organisation. Given the scope of the rights enjoyed by applicants, it would be appropriate to shorten the time limits for the decision under the General Administrative Procedure Act. Furthermore, we see no point in sharing the burdens of solidarity among EU Member States and accepting in our country any of any quota. Therefore, we strongly oppose this, and there is no explanation. If the applicant has already been granted a allowance once a month, we propose that this financial burden be transferred to international organisations or that the extent of these funds be offset by the payment of membership to international organisations. It is imperative to waive the allowance of any applicant against whom there is a reasonable suspicion that he is a perpetrator of a criminal offence, because such a dictatorship would result in reducing crime between them and giving them the knowledge that we do not approve of it. At the time of reception, a knowledge of Slovenian culture, customs, customs should be provided for all applicants. The costs of the course of learning Slovenian society, the course of Slovenian language and the one-time examination of Slovenian language knowledge should be borne exclusively by persons with recognised international protection and not by the Office. It would be useful for persons with international protection to be required to cooperate on the student labour market, where the eligibility for monetary compensation would be linked to a certain number of hours of temporary and occasional work of the student and student. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems unacceptable that the law governing such material does not contain a chapter of the criminal provision. Article 89a of this provision is not sufficient, and we therefore propose that, in order to ensure that cooperation in the procedure is not respected, an appropriate fine should be laid down and that a sanction for an offence, namely the expulsion of a foreigner from the country, should be carefully considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting! The subject before us today would not be if we respected the appearance of such a self - assuming red thread that I have been talking about all day — respect for the law. Respect for the law of the home country, in our case of the country of Slovenia, and of course European law, of the one which has been adopted by agreement, ratified and applied to the whole of the European Union. Unfortunately, one part of the people in the European Union took the right and one part of the right has been suspended. "Wir schaffen das", we can do it, come all you want. The borders have opened and have been occupied for five years by the European Union and it is the whole of Europe with a madness called mass illegal migration. With something illegal, because everything connected with it is illegal, and what is normal in respect of law should never come. All that is happening today in connection with illegal migration is mass abuse and all that is happening in Brussels right now is simply a cover-up. Even the latest pact being drawn up by the European Union, in the form it is now on the table, is nothing more than a covert diversion of responsibility and an attempt to legalise illegal back-up. It's a real state. At that time, it was actually illegal, an illegal act for which some of Europe's leading politicians were responsible, hiding behind the very big, uttering words that we still hear today, about humanism, about respect for our fellow man, about what we don't know, even about responsibility for some events centuries ago, and so on. In fact, it was two things, political interests and money. And that's all that's still going on today in all this story, if we can't agree on all of this a long time ago. Many say well-intentionedly, yes, this will have to be agreed at the level of the European Union. This is unfortunate, as long as this entire generation, which is responsible or responsible for this illegal opening of borders, is not removed from European policy, it is not possible. This will not be because it is by definition impossible because these people who have been responsible are now dealing with nothing but concealing their own responsibility, so that no one calls them politically or even criminally to account. Because, in my personal opinion, we should, including those in Slovenia who were directly responsible for this. Interestingly, one of these is now being offered as a possible mandate holder. This is the real situation we have in the area of illegal migration. At that time, there was talk, yes, the engineers were coming — what is it? – surgeons and people who will save the European labour force. Well, in practice, that surgery turned out to be bigger than the cut from ear to ear, but space technology in the blast, from Bataclan to all the other stories that we all know too well. As far as the labour force is concerned, from the millions who have invaded Europe during these massive migrations, there is a formal handful of them, and in fact no one, virtually no one. Stories have been known when, say, a German factory wanted to hire some people, found that no one, but none of them had the knowledge that would have been necessary to hire them in that factory. They called in a school for these people, a few of them signed up, not one of them finished schooling. This is the case in practice after illegal migration. In fact, it is a mass abuse of the law, which is the responsibility of those who have caused and tolerated it today and, on the other hand, social parasitism of the worst kind. People come, they ask for everything from apartment to apartment, and I don't know what, and for a long time it even worked. Remember, even in Slovenia, they were looking for illegal migrants with leather seats, with no idea of any LED TVs and the like, which in Slovenia does not yet have many of those who work here and enrich this country for 40 years. And they're supposed to pay you for them. It's all about making money. That talk about how wars are, and I don't know what changes, of course, are larifari. Look who has put the most applications for asylum in Slovenia in the last period – Moroccans in the first place and then Algerians in the first place. Where's the war, ladies and gentlemen? Where's the war? Besides, are we bordering on Algeria and Morocco? What exactly is the right to asylum? For every act, every right must be seen as a right of origin, just as it was when it was accepted. If you go to the UN today, during that period with regard to asylum, it is very clear, crystal clear how this was meant: if you are a refugee, if you run to save your life, personal integrity, then you apply for asylum in the first safe country bordering on yours, or in that part of your country that is safe. You're an asylum man there, you have the right to asylum there, you're a fugitive. What is happening today is, of course, something else. People come across ten safe countries and then make an application for asylum where they think they are. Many times, especially in Slovenia, this is happening only for tactical reasons – because they accidentally intercepted it and then made an application for asylum, so it is possible to transport it to Ljubljana, where it fills its GSM and then goes on happily. And there are — how many? 80, 90 %. And this is the reality of this asylum, it's called mass abuse from the first to the last letter. Nowhere in the neighbouring countries is anyone threatened by life or personal integrity or anything. In neighbouring countries we all go on vacations, we well know – we do not talk about it being the European Union, which has its own rules of play. In short, anyone who comes here and plays the role of asylum here is clearly abused by this criterion, which is clear. Someone will say, yes, because now it is a different practice, now people are allowed to go where they want to play a role – yes. In the European Union, until recently, only six years ago, it had to be looked at, it was considered that asylum shopping was an asylum shopping, when someone chose where he would go, and that he would play an asylum role there, not only unacceptable practice, but even a criminal act! This was even the subject of meetings, legal discussions on how to prevent it from being penalised. Today, this is allowed as if it were human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that many are now sitting down so that no one will fall out of the chair, but to tell you something: breaking and entering the country illegally across the border is not a human right, but it never will be. It's a crime, it's an illegal act. Here it is only an abuse of a right that was meant to be very noble, which was considered and accepted in some other times — that was a direct period after World War II — and which, of course, was meant entirely differently, well-intentioned, not as mass abuse today. It is being misused globally, as it is not only a Slovenian problem. Interesting was the UN data which was published, I think, two years ago, after which of all those who went anywhere with the right to asylum, less than 2% of those who were entitled or at least those who were conditionally entitled. So it's practically just mass abuse. Of course, these mass abuse is exploited because some people find it fitting. First time. This drives money, money is huge, it's the world's second largest business at the moment, or the third by some estimates, and it's worth about 400 billion euros net, as gross as no one can calculate. So that's how much money is spent, or if you want to, pick up for transporting these people, for everything that's got to do with it. This is a real industry that has developed in particular in the European Union, and especially in Slovenia. People go down to Bosnia, for instance, so-called NGOs then give them instructions on where to go across the border, so that they do not get caught, give them maps in electronic form, appropriate instructions. This exists as much as you want statements, are officially recorded, given to the official authorities, I can also present them if you want. And then they get to Slovenia. The Croats are quite afraid, because there's a lot more serious than ours. When they get here, they've got campers all over their guests waiting for them. If they're being intercepted, then it's going pretty well on this system I was talking about. And then, of course, it is also possible to delay the procedure, but if, by chance, someone is finally given the power to bring this to legal power – which costs about 50,000 euros per calculation – to obtain a decision that he must leave the country and be brought to the National Assembly and declared the greatest victim in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. All this, comedy or tragedy, depending on how you look at it, if from the point of view of law, it's a tragedy, we've already seen it. And it is necessary to end this, because it is very clear to ourselves that we are paying Slovenia and Slovenia, citizens and citizens, all taxpayers. The people who have lived this country for 40 years have built it, with its predecessors worth rich, today do not have the pensions they deserve, because the mountains of money are devoted to so-called asylum seekers and asylum policy, to refugees we all know from the first to the last. And there's talk of some fugitives. What kind of fugitives? I know that many people don't like what I say, especially because I'm like a bad conscience. Five years ago, I was talking the same thing as today, and everyone was talking about poor refugees. I said, "They're gone because they can't be." Refugees were here when the war was in the Balkans and Slovenia was the first safe country. We accepted those without a problem and there was no problem. And I would do them again if I had to, and God forbid it ever would have to. But what's happening now is just mass abuse, which is why we all live worse than we could. Because it's making money, and a lot of people make fantastic profit out of it. For example, those stories about so-called NGOs are very well known, that I will not only talk about Slovenia saving at sea, but then it looks like this: first they take money from those who finance the arrivals of migrants to Europe, then they turn them over and then they cash them again, and then they bring them to Italy, or wherever they are, and then they get money for the help of the European Union. A quick round of applause. That's really business is fantastic and you say you're a humanist. [[…]] Profits are bigger than drug trafficking. That's where everyone looks at you. In this case, this is a game of life, a game of life and security for both European citizens and citizens, Slovenian citizens and citizens, as well as for all those who are coming. And that is why once again, for what has happened and what is happening, I think we should answer at European level and elsewhere. How do you stop it? The money that drives this is huge. Once again, there'll be no one with those fairy tales to start wars and I don't know what. Some kind of war, huh? Where are your wars? There will be a war now, yes, because Biden was now not elected, but defrauded, this must be separated. But the problem is that it is already visible that the previous president was the only one who actually wanted to stop the wars, and there is already an exacerbation and the war will be anywhere sooner or later. This will be used for an excuse, for the new jacks and new jacks again and, of course, Europe is the first one here on the agenda. Then you have people who are calculating – they're not naive, sometimes I thought someone was naive, but they're not, it's calculus. Some see in those who are coming, new future voters, and others the source of profits or both. That's all there is to it. And it will be said, yes, but now you have to open the door and accept what everyone wants. Well, for those see – I could post it online, if you like, I will – what Africa looks like or with the Middle East all over Europe. In Africa, in the Middle East, you can put the whole of Europe in and even China in the US, and there is a small wage left, and even the European Union. That's what you say, but you can't get the other way around, Africa and the Middle East into Europe. You import the third world, you get the third world. One country has already experienced this very sad experience, one trying to solve what to get rid of that, Great Britain, Sweden, France lately, but it's all too late, too late. Because at the same time as illegal migration, another process is under way, which is even more dangerous, and this is a process of radical Islamisation. Believe me, we will soon get rid of the crowns in one way or another, and radical Islam, but once it floods Europe, we will not get rid of it for a thousand years, or God knows it, or never because it has its legitimacy and these laws affect everything else. Today, because of this money, it is said that it is because of the financial benefits and political benefits that come from illegal migrants as new voters coming to Europe, but that some expect, literally destroys national countries, traditions, everything on which modern Europe is founded, and threatens the entire European civilization. This needs to be made very clear. It is therefore necessary to draw conclusions. Only yourself can be equipped. The way Europe is going to solve this – I'm sorry, it won't. As there is not yet, nor will there be a deal and it will not be able to solve this really well until it brings all these generations of politicians responsible for this illegal work out of Brussels. However, this will take a very large number of years, because it is impossible to reach such consensus, there are too many different interests. This is said to be an appropriate strengthening of legislation, in order to reduce the number of abuses and to put the costs of these procedures within a reasonable framework. This is the purpose of the law that is before us today. In this part, in my view, the law has yet to be fully refined or another law will have to be adopted. We are back to where these things tend to get complicated, that is the most politically coordinated possible and currently proposed. Those who say that what is proposed is inconsistent with the Constitution or European standards do not know them. That's pretty consistent, but I think there's still a little bit of room for maneuvering up there. It is important to look at how these things are handled by neighbouring countries. This is because of all those who are critics of this proposal and overestimated in their assessments. For example, France declared every incursion across the border two or three years ago a crime that then has other consequences. How does a neighboring Austria feel about what was going on? Not to mention all the other countries. In short, if we do not want to be the one who bears the burden of all Europe, this legislation must be reinforced at least to be equivalent to all neighbours. At least that much. Slovenia is small, vulnerable and is also in a very sensitive strategic space. If she had acted differently in the past under the previous government, these currents would probably have turned differently, but now they are where they are, and they cannot be changed in a short time. It is, therefore, necessary to turn within this framework. What needs to be done? Three must be done in particular. Stop all additional ratings and stop funding those who promote migration or illegal migration. That's first and foremost. Secondly, it is necessary to simplify procedures so that, if there is some apparent abuse, this simply does not cause unnecessary costs to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a responsibility to citizens and citizens because they pay you. I have already stated that there are obvious abuses in the vast majority of cases. What I would like is an amendment such as it has already been voted on — and under the previous government — because it was proposed by the previous minister — that someone who comes from a safe country where there are no threats to his personal integrity, even the very least of his life, simply does not have the right to apply for asylum. Here are the opinions on whether this could be resolved in this way or not under European law. I'm personally sure I can. And that's what I'm convinced of, the original, those international agreements that govern the areas of asylum. Because they were actually set up for this. All that is being interpreted today, as with these migrations, is indeed a reinterpretation that is completely different from the original principle within the legal order. Of course, as with the concepts that I have already described, it is strongly manipulated. If any concept in this story is extremely misused, it is a concept of European solidarity. How is European solidarity used in relation to illegal migration? Those who have triggered these illegal migrations by their careless statements, calls and then by the co-existence of the rule of law today refer to European solidarity as follows: well, now of those who are coming, you take something under the mandatory quotas or under the cover of mandatory quotas. Because they are pushing everyone in, even in this latest pact you have covert mandatory quotas and sanctions if you don't want to accept them. Is that supposed to be European solidarity? Yes, of course. This is, for the first time, a purely ordinary rape, abusing the one who's a criminal. For he who has allowed and initiated illegal mass migration is a criminal for breaking the law. It's so simple, really, if you call it in the right words. It is now forcing on top of everything, and this is called European solidarity. Yes, of course. Do you know what the only true European solidarity would be? The only real European solidarity would be helping the European Union and all countries to emigrate, to return illegal migrants to their countries of origin. And you won't believe it, and that's not it. How does this system work now in practice? If this latest pact is yet to be implemented — let us hope that it will not be, we must do everything in order to avoid it — it will look something like this. Non-governments call for Africa, where they come to turn illegal migrants, of course finely cash them in, bring them to Italy, then see what anyone has, but if anyone knows, they best take them to Luxembourg, Germany and so on, the others check. Those who are still in security may, however, be subject to quotas. This is what European solidarity looks like in practice without all the glamour. And after they deliver some illegal migrants to you under the mandatory quota, which no one else wanted to take, leave you alone, and now you deal with them, you bring them back, as you know and know. You can judge ten times that they're not entitled to asylum, and nobody cares about that anymore. This is your problem now and the European Union will no longer deal with it. Great European solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. The first solidarity to be demanded unconditionally from Europe is assistance in remigration, in returning migrants to their countries of origin. This is European solidarity. As long as it's not, everything else is irrelevant, everything else is superfluous. It is also pointless to talk about some European solutions while it is not, because it is purely a diversion and accommodating to a game run by someone else at our expense, at the expense of our taxpayers, at the expense of everyone living in Slovenia and the European Union. I'll never agree with that. This law saves these things in the right direction. It simplifies procedures, allows obvious abuses to be prevented immediately from taking appropriate action. It gives the right to act to those in need and removes some completely unnecessary ratings for illegal migrants, which all other countries have long since abolished. It also repeats or renews certain procedures that would allow more rational solutions, according to the applicants, and puts things in the right place. So, I just sincerely hope that this is the first step in the right direction, and frankly, I would like a lot more. Because most European countries have done much more in this direction. Let us leave big words, go look at specific marriage solutions in these countries, and you will see what one word and another action really is. This is at all a problem when we talk about illegal migration – because in fact, behind the most highly spoken words are the most obstinate either political interests with so-called new voters or in the vast majority of cases simply financial interests. The financial interests of those financed by the Arab or, if you wish, the global financial velocaries of the Soros type and the like who have their objectives: creating emergency situations, with extraordinary circumstances, create circumstances for extraordinary profits. And all these are really the ones that are the most explicitly declared leftists. Today it is necessary to know that the speculative capital is without exception to the entire left. Once people understand this, they will also understand what is happening to this poor world. That's what's hiding behind a strong word of globalisation, and something else. Not to talk about fake humanism and everything else. As it is said, what needs to be demanded unconditionally is that laws apply for all to stop making exceptions that do not deserve to be attributed to certain qualities that they do not have, but to put things under the right name. To know who is actually coming to see what the circumstances of these people are. You all know those stories well. It is amazing that those who come in the rush and rescue – if I'm sorry, a little – lose all personal documents, their families, leave everything behind, but never lose a new iPhone. [[…]] Isn't that amazing? Maybe you should ask yourself who's really coming. For when the refugees came, they were older men, mothers, children. Today, if you look at who is coming and who is the first to arrive in that wave in 2015, you will see that they are coming for war capable and for war qualified people, and this is mass. But the rest of them have little or no show on their hands. And that is the problem – because, in fact, as long as it fits into this false logic of false asylums, it imports foreign wars and foreign soldiers onto European soil. This endangers the safety of everyone and everyone, threatens the welfare, because that's why we all live worse, endangers the social system, because the vast majority of them hang only on social welfare and hangs all these years when they're here. This destroys what is at the heart of Europe – European values, European peoples, European tradition, European civilisation. I say that they must be maintained and maintained, so everything must be done to stop this process and turn around. To turn in the direction in which I said that the only true European solidarity would finally be demonstrated is solidarity in remigration, in returning illegal migrants to the country of origin, in order to respect the Constitution, the law, the international agreements, including Dublin, which is now being tried in all ways to replace with something else, because it is in the interest of someone to cover up what he himself has caused. The law before us is a step in the right direction and we will support it in the SDS in a unified manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u135	Following is the position of the LMŠ Group. Mr. Nick Prebil will introduce him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello again! Today's topic, dealt with in the form of two laws, yes, is sensitive and important to many, again unnecessary for someone else. The second of the two laws, which is now on the table and which is even wider than before, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. Whether we have a right or a left point of view with regard to the problem of foreigners, we need to draw attention to the facts. The first fact is that this law actually restricts foreigners and makes access to asylum more difficult and gives legal basis for the actions of officials who today do certain things on their own, on the basis of some internal instructions. The second fact is that the law provides for a number of sanctions if the alien does not participate in the procedure. The introduction of additional repressive elements seeks to establish order and prevent abuse. To some extent, we could agree on this if we had the assurance that these procedures would be conducted objectively and that the current government of migration conditions would not use it to achieve its own political objectives, as is the case with the custom. Therefore, for a national law that has been well coordinated in the past and is also European-oriented, the Government has drawn up changes to asylum seekers – and I must stress here that asylum seekers are not just migrants or refugees – taking or denying the possibility of applying for international protection in our country. When we talk about refugees, migrants, or asylum seekers, we need to understand that they are no matter what people are. People who are living in a situation — whether it be economic, health, or life - threatening — are forced to leave their home and thus their home country. A lot of people are going to say, "That's not my problem." And basically it's not. However, when we look at the matter more comprehensively, many mistakes and causes of such situations can be found in modern countries. As humans, we are obliged to help a fellow man in distress, a fellow man whose life is threatened by his beliefs, political or religious, or conflicts within the country. Thus, as humans, we must maintain one of the qualities that make us human — humanity. And the other side, which is certainly difficult, is illegal border crossings. This system of international protection is burdened by a fact. Among these, we need to detect those I mentioned earlier and help them and detect those who come to our country illegally, that is, illegally. But he's in the country, respected to prevent abuse of the system. The entire European continent needs immigrants. The needs are increasing and Slovenia is also aware of this. But it is a fact that these immigrants, because they want to work here, live, create and develop into Slovenian society, can come to us through legal procedures. It also maintains that applications for international protection are increasing throughout the European Union, but this is not and must not be the basis for provisions that have already prevented applicants for international protection from doing so. This is why we deny and change precisely what is the key basis of such European legislation, namely the protection of the vulnerable. I think we also have to explain why this law is even ahead of us today. In particular, because the European Union and, more importantly, its European leaders, as well as internal ministers, have not been able to agree in all five years from the largest migration flows in the area on how we will update and reorganise legislation on migration and asylum. We are still waiting for a single migration policy, we are still waiting for a new common asylum system. At European Union level, it would be easier to agree on the limit to which individual Member States can go without prejudice to the reduction of fundamental European values or human rights. Slovenia, whether good or not, is changing two key laws on the basis of the policies of the ruling coalition. Let me focus at the substantive level on those key controversial or questionable provisions of the bill on international protection and also on key improvements. In the LMŠ, we can agree that these — not just these — procedures should be accelerated, but that does not mean that the state can reduce or eliminate procedures simply so that it does not have to deal with anyone. We cannot therefore agree with the provisions of this law, which reduce some time limits for asylum seekers' legal remedies to just three days. In the new light, the restriction of movement could also be expressed to the investor of intent, not only to the actual applicant for international protection. Well, this is a measure aimed at actually legalising what officials are already doing today on the basis of internal political instructions – that foreigners are unjustifiably confined to foreign centres, even though they have already expressed their intention to obtain international protection and should, in accordance with the law, be transferred to an asylum home. Furthermore, the proposal for a law contains a solution whereby, in the event of doubt on the age of a minor, an executive opinion is given before an application for international protection is made. The law already provides for unaccompanied minors with both additional procedural guarantees and adapted reception conditions. From the point of view of the safety of other minors in an asylum home and in view of the appropriateness of the accommodation and handling of the procedure, this is appropriate, but what if the Ministry of the Interior introduces a provision stating that a minor in a personal interview with an official will not be allowed to have an escort, i.e. a relative or other person, after a new one. Now you imagine a child, aged 10, who has lost his parents, speaking a foreign language in a foreign country, and you deny him the possibility of being accompanied by a guardian or a relative when talking to an official. That's unacceptable. The next of the main solutions is the establishment of a legal basis for further restrictions on the movement of applicants for international protection. The latter is permissible if there is a risk that the applicant will escape. But once again, as a subjugation, a provision that, as a reckless act, defines, for example, a violation of public order and peace. I was looking for a legitimate explanation, and I can't find it. What is crucial in the whole process is the integration of people who have also been granted the status of international protection. This matter of this law can be commended in the LMŠ. Increased integration is important in terms of knowledge of Slovenian society, our language and in general more necessary activities for successful integration into society. We understand where the problem is, but it needs to be regulated in proportion, and the law changes and limits exactly what is the basis of this law and what is the key objective of the European Union and its values. Several times it has been stressed, including by some government representatives, that we need to harmonise matters at European level, and we agree with this in the LMŠ. This means that together we should seek solutions to the problem and invest in the common protection of our external borders. Sometimes it would be enough just some sane thinking to find a solution in terms of the whole story and not just a fraction of it. If we were like society, and here I should warn you, not only Slovenian, but also the whole European, able to see beyond the neighbor's garden, we would be able to find solutions because we would be working together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will be next in line to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u138	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a government proposal for a new Law on International Protection, the primary objective of which is to provide a rapid and effective procedure for international protection in practice and to prevent the abuse of the system of international protection. Such a solution is necessary because, according to the Government, the number of applications for international protection is increasing and this affects the burden of international protection systems. The proposer of this reference in the material has been backing up statistical data since 2004 when we joined the European Union. By the way, it is also interesting to note that in the Republic of Slovenia, from 1995 until 2 December 2020, international protection was granted to 989 people. We can agree with the proposaler that the civil structure of applicants for international protection is problematic. More than half of them come from third countries, which state in particular the economic reasons for obtaining international protection in their applications. We also include the citizens of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Pakistan and Afghanistan. With regard to the provision of a rapid and effective system of international protection, we spoke at a meeting of the National Assembly a good year ago when we discussed the amendment of the law put into the legislative procedure by the Council of State. Two additional exclusional qualifications were proposed when persons are not granted refugee status and subsidiary protection in order to relieve the system of international protection. At that time, according to statistics for 2019 and the calculation, we estimated that 85 out of 3 000 800 applicants would be granted asylum applications, representing only around 0.5% of all. At the same time, we are constantly faced with the situation of many asylum seekers moving forward towards the target countries during the asylum process. The applicant submitted an assessment in the material that most of the applications were submitted for the purpose of misuse of the international protection procedure, with 80 % of the procedures for international protection being suspended in 2019 and 81 % in 2020. We believe that it is imperative to shorten and rationalise procedures to determine the eligibility of international protection, but we must not put at risk anyone who really needs international protection. To exclude such an applicant from the procedure would put him in grave danger. With regard to the prevention of abuse of the procedure of international protection, applicants for international protection may also be refused an application as unfounded if the applicant fails to submit his personal documents or otherwise manifests his or her identity. The applicant submits that a number of times it turns out that the applicant has a personal document but does not wish to submit it for various reasons. In my position, I would also point out a change concerning unaccompanied minors. If the authority had questioned the applicant's age in the proceedings, it would have ordered an expert opinion to be drawn up before the application for international protection. In practice, it is often found that the applicant deceives about age. It was pointed out that separate accommodations should be provided for unaccompanied minors or accommodated in appropriate institutions, and it is difficult to find suitable accommodation in terms of capacity. I believe that further discussion will also take place on the envisaged sanctions relating to the obstruction of the implementation of international protection procedures, the failure to respect the duties of applicants for international protection, the violation of the rules of residence in accommodation centres and the rules of public order and peace and the services of criminal offences. To ensure a successful and effective system of international protection and, last but not least, the management of migration policy is certainly within each country's domain, but we are facing a broader problem here. The protection of the external borders of the European Union is also a problem for the Union itself, which will have to find concrete measures. If we have to deal with this issue on our own, it seems to us to the Social Democrats that we will not be able to solve the problem properly. The problem will remain, as will the platform to promote various extremisms. Social Democrats are estimated to have proved that they are in control of the state border situation, but of course solutions will also need to be found that will contribute to improving the international protection process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The last one will be Mrs Violeta Tomić, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Law on International Protection is another law with a new title. On behalf of the law, it would be concluded that this is a law providing international protection for all those who need this protection to prosecute in their home countries. More than international refugee protection, however, the law provides for ways to prevent refugees from coming to international protection at all. Otherwise, this Slovenian country has been doing very well for 25 years, in all these years it has granted international protection to only 989 people. However, since these numbers are obviously still too high for her, it will further tighten the conditions for obtaining and maintaining the status of international protection. In doing so, the main motive is that there are as few posts as possible, not whether applicants need it or not. Under previous governments, this was more and more entrenched in the cellophane, and under this government it is more and more frank, as the media in the mercy of the ruling parties openly promote racism and fear of foreigners. The explanation states that there is a trend in the number of requests at European Union level, and data show a sharp decline in the number of applications after 2015, only 2019 has increased again, but again in 2020 there has been a higher decline in the number of requests. Finally, it is crucial that the number of requests for different reasons does not increase, which means that there is no need to tighten the conditions for this reason. This is what the European Union notes, and this data should also be known by the Slovenian Government. But far better than political opportunities is to smooch border dwellers, where migrants are forced to illegally cross the state border. It is almost criminalised not only by applicants for international protection but also by advisers for refugees, as they should need security clearance. However, it is not clear what security checks will cover. It is also unclear which authority will be responsible for the security verification and how this will be carried out. The proposal thus does not contain either the procedure or the content of the security check. It is also unclear from the proposal whether an individual with the results of the security check will be informed or not. However, the fact is that fugitive advisers must now submit a certificate of impunity, which should be fully satisfactory. For there is no reason that they should be further examined, as if they were members of an international criminal association, together with the applicant for international protection, who is trying to falsify the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also provides that the Minister may dispose of a refugee adviser even if it is found that he has the true identity of the applicant, has the identity of the applicant's identification documents, is aware of the actual age of the applicant if he claims to be a minor, or is aware of the facts on which the applicant is not entitled to refugee status or subsidiary protection, but does not inform the competent authority. That's unacceptable. Counsellors for refugees, as well as lawyers, are bound by the obligation to protect professional secrecy, as stated in Article 6 of the Law on Lawyers. The Refugee Adviser shall provide legal assistance to his clients, including representation in judicial proceedings, and there shall be no informant. Its role is essential in the exercise of the right to judicial protection, the right to a remedy and the guarantee of a fair trial. Its duty to protect this secrecy is the basis of a confidential relationship between the Refugee Advisor and his client, which intertwines all aspects of privacy, from general to spatial, communication and informational. The adviser shall protect his right to privacy in the professional field and the State shall not be intruding on that right. All these additional requirements for legal advisers point to the state’s or current government’s attitude towards people who, like lawyers, do their job. But even worse in our country is carried away by refugees. The recent judgment of the Italian court, which rejected the deportation of Pakistani refugees to Slovenia despite the Dublin regulation, also bears witness to Slovenia's markedly poor attitude towards refugees, in spite of the Dublin regulation, I quote, "because of the danger of being dealt with there in contravention of fundamental humanitarian principles and contrary to the provisions of Article 4 of the EU Charter on Fundamental Human Rights". Even in the judgment, the Court states, quote: "In this case, it seems that the applicant in Slovenia seems to be subjected to inhuman and degrading behaviour, justified," and so on. It is known and documented that the police extradite the refugees they have captured in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and have not allowed them to submit an application for international protection to Croatia, even though they are threatened by the violence of the repressive authorities there. Already, most applications for international protection have been rejected, and refugees are constantly being informed that they are not wanted here. The rejection of an application for international protection cannot in any way be the fault of the fugitive, but it is only the fault of the State, which violates fundamental human rights because of its legitimacy. Slovenia, through its legislation, violence against refugees and living standards in asylum homes, is engaged in a preventive war against refugees. The purpose of the current government is simply to de facto abolish international protection. There are many testimonies and reports from various media outlets that report that the Slovenian authorities have restricted access to international protection and made rejections without considering applications for international protection and without allowing a complaint. Many refugees and asylum seekers say that Slovenian police have ignored their applications for international protection and some have told them that asylum in Slovenia is simply not. By amending the legislation, the Government wants illegal practices, as defined by international law, to be transformed into lawful conduct and to be quickened by international conventions and universal human rights. There are more bizarre solutions in the law that provide for special legal status in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia where certain legislation does not apply. The procedure at the border, airport and port shall provide for the automatic seizure of liberty without a decision to be taken and the compliance of all procedural requirements, which constitutes an arbitrary intervention into a personal freedom which is illegal and unconstitutional. It should be pointed out that, at the time of arrival in the border or transit area, the applicant is already in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and is subject to national, European and international law at that time, and the exceptions in this regard are not permissible. We do not support and vote against such amendments to the Law on International Protection in Levika. Amendments would be needed to facilitate the procedures for applying for international protection, which would enable us to live a decent life rather than a law that provides for the rejection of international protection that restores refugees to life-threatening circumstances. Too many people suffer and die on their way to a decent life so that they can respond reputably to such cowardly and legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members on the draft law. As the first to speak, Mr. Minister. But let me just read the first five debaters because of the big reviews. Mr Rudi Medved, Kociper, Baković, Bah Žibert and Koražija, is given the floor after the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! A few statistics first. In 2015, 277 applications for asylum were submitted in the Republic of Slovenia; in 2018 there were already 2 000 875, in 2019 3 000 821 and in this year or last year 3 000 548. If we look at the average of 10 years, i.e. the average of those 10 years, when the intensity of these applications has not been so intense, I can serve with data that during the period 2006-2015, this was a 10-year period applied for about 330 applications per year. Something about treachery has already been said by the representative of Desus. In 2020, however, of these 3 000 548 applications were a large majority of the requests addressed to citizens of Morocco, Pakistan, Algeria, Afghanistan and so on. It is therefore clear that most of the asylum seekers' applications have been made by nationals of countries which cannot be classified as dangerous countries of origin, so they are safe countries. More important than that, and what we have heard today is the undeniable fact that more than 80% of those who apply for asylum avoid waiting for their request to be processed. Here it is necessary to say what is probably less known to the Slovenian public or perhaps we are talking too much about illegal state border crossings – that all those illegals who come across the Kolpo River or across the snow forest or so on and would have serious intention of applying for asylum could do so at any border crossing. Hence, there is no reason for anyone who walks across Kolpo or across snow forests to apply for asylum at the border crossing of Jelshana, Obrežje, or any other border crossing. The indisputable fact is that most of these do not, in fact, show a desire for international asylum, but only treat Slovenia as a transitional station. Maybe he doesn't even have to apply for asylum. Therefore, many who are able to illegally cross the state border say that they do not apply for asylum, so they are returned and again and again attempting to cross the border illegally through bilateral agreements. Because the goal is not Slovenia, the goal is not international protection, but the goal is to get to Western Europe, Italy, Germany, wherever they are to work there. The purpose of amending this amended law, where it is necessary to say that all the solutions are, despite the fact that the wishes of some parties, including the works of my party, I would say, even more restrictive or with the desire to further sharpen, it is necessary to start by saying that a few of the proposals could not be taken into account. [[…]] They could not be taken into account because it was necessary to take into account the framework of the EU acquis, it is true that existing, applicable asylum legislation in the EU is necessary. Hence, some things are, of course, less acute than some might wish. The main objective of this law is, of course, to provide rapid and effective international protection for those who actually need it. The second, also important and indistinguishable reason is to root out the abuse of asylum legislation to the greatest extent. I spoke about this a little earlier, so that the rules on how to get to asylum are clearly laid out and that this is not misused. And of course, what some of you have already said is that if it is a serious purpose, after asylum is achieved, to integrate into society, appropriate training, organisation of courses, knowledge of Slovenian language, culture. In other words, integration into our society, as of course for everyone who actually wants to live in a certain area later, will also be decent. It has been said that we are doing something special and we are doing something special from the EU framework. Of course, that only holds in part. It holds part of the part where EU legislation does not currently prescribe uniform procedures within a Member State. However, it holds the indisputable fact that I have repeatedly pointed out that — from, I think, 23. Last year, when the Commission presented a new asylum pact, that is, this pact, which began to be discussed on the European floor – we believe that as many legislative solutions as possible are needed, including those talking about restrictions on movement, negotiation and entry into European legislation. Because it is true that on the European floor, in European countries all things are regulated as uniformly as possible, so that there is no difference between, say, limiting the movement of a refugee seeking asylum in Slovenia or someone asking for it in Italy. So it is a wish, and I believe, that European countries will listen to it, that we will also reach the new asylum pact at this technical level, so that we can unify as many matters as possible within the European Union as possible. You have already heard a number of things about the most crucial things that we implement or introduce in the proposed amendments. I'd like to point out four of my key points. The first is what is largely recognized as a pronounced abuse, either rescue or to the greatest extent resolution of rapid procedures for those who clearly abuse proof that they have a personal document. People either deliberately destroy this or later it turns out that they even have the document, but they don't show it and so on. Another extremely important thing is to issue many and many to minors who are not. In recent years, it has been shown that experts have been able to visualize a minor very quickly. Why? This is due to the fact that certain additional benefits, such as the provision of care, such as accommodation in special cities, do not go hand in hand with other asylum seekers, but with minors with a higher level of care, which is, of course, an additional abuse or additional precedent. And that we were limited or that we were still limited in the speed of identifying the actual age of applicants today. Procedures are relatively long by setting up an expert, with the possibility of rejecting this verification, and therefore things within this law are being done to the greatest extent by speeding up the matter. We have given special attention to the limitation of movement. Why? Because, as I said at the outset, the vast majority of these are not even waiting for the very procedure of interviewing, checking whether they actually want to have asylum or not, but actually disappearing from the asylum home. So, total abuse. It is therefore appropriate for this movement limit to be achieved. Finally, in order to bring the process to an end legally or through appropriate interviews and tests, the individual will do so, not that what is happening today is that of those 80% who somehow disappear, the roles simply need to be completed without the procedures envisaged in the law, but simply because of the fact that the applicants do not appear or disappear from the process. It is true that part of this law can limit movement at the border, i.e. in ports, airports or border areas. Why? It is precisely because of what I have just said, so as to ensure that an individual from this border salary or border control does not leave, that a policeman can keep him there, in order to carry out the procedures for determining the eligibility or ineligibleness of his application for asylum and, of course, process the complex procedure appropriately. As far as coordination is concerned within the Ministry of Education itself, it must be said that we have mainly coordinated all things between the departments, even in the part where, say, the Ministry of Education had some reservations or similar, they did not eventually oppose this law. The only open question that I believe remains is the possibility of a complaint before the Supreme Court. Things were getting a little shaky here. Indeed, our position, the Ministry of the Interior, is that this possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court is permitted. Allow me why? Because in recent years, statistics have shown that, to a large extent, the Administrative Court, after our assessment, has judged inappropriate, as confirmed in many cases when this possibility of appeal was still there, also by the Supreme Court. In recent years, when these complaints were not possible, our administrative authority is, therefore, our ministry was in a certain position in a certain spot, where there was somehow no instance where such a decision by the Administrative Court could be appealed. Finally, the possibility of a complaint before the Supreme Court is also fully in line with EU law and opens up the possibility of legal protection for both parties, so not just for one. The only three-day deadline remains open. This three-day deadline was, of course, a strong defence at the Ministry of the Interior. We are convinced that in these three days — given that someone wants international protection and is settled where he is, and in fact he has nothing else to do than to deal with his own complaint, there is, of course, an appropriate support available, we see no reason for this matter to stretch or to extend to no one for how many days. For it only needlessly prolongs the procedures and further makes it possible to abuse the institution. Maybe I'll say a word around the records. The information officer drew attention to some of the matters relating to the records. We have taken most of her proposals into account in the draft law. We believe that those problematic, open things have been reconciled, so we have made sure that they are no longer problematic. At the same time, it is necessary to say that the records themselves are also subject to considerable debate at European level and that we will probably be even more limited in this area with regard to the protection of personal data through the new Pact on Asylum and Migration. There is no way to agree that, as was said, the presence of a family member can be merely an advantage. We have quite an experience in the field where they have discovered that, for example, when a family, where something is said by a man, a wife does not dare to say this in the presence of a husband, which is not so unusual for the culture of people where these people come from. Therefore, it seems to us that it is entirely sufficient and adequate to provide qualified public sector officials who, according to our assessment, are competent and competent to conduct interviews with each other with a sufficient guarantee that all those who request international protection can actually do so. I conclude that we have also limited certain material conditions. In fact, it is clear that for someone who has enough resources to survive, it is not necessary for the state to give him more allowance and the like. Last but not least, if we come from the point of view that Slovenia is, yes, in the Schengen area, but not an external member of the European Union, it is really a question of why we ask ourselves that Slovenia has so few asylum applications. Even as many as it is, with some real implementation of the current law we should in fact reduce to even less, because the fact is that for asylum it is necessary to ask in the first safe country where someone enters, but certainly in relation to neighbouring countries, so, we are surrounded by EU members, all neighbouring countries are safe and I do not see any particular reason that each individual would not apply for asylum where he has entered. [[…]] The second topic is already what the new Pact on Migration and Asylum foresees, but I would not talk about it today. Of course, we are talking about relocations, whether it is right that only the external members of the European Union are hit by both illegal and legal migrants, but we are not regulating this in this legislative proposal. I believe that the law is prepared in such a way as to be able to obtain sufficient support in this well-respected assembly, but, of course, if it proves to be within the debate itself as a necessary minimum supplement or a change, it is possible to do so with an amendment that will be previously harmonised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We continue our debate with the Members. The first is Mr Rudi Medved, and Mrs Maša Kociper is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The system of international protection in Slovenia is burdened. Otherwise, we would expect more, given the number of those who come to the territory of Slovenia, of course many of them do not even apply for asylum. However, despite the burden, the many burdens of the system itself in the LMŠ, we believe that procedures must be accelerated in such a way as to prevent abuses, to make the procedures more clear. The minister says that these proposals are actually less harsh than they would like to be, so they are less acute. We consider that, even though they are less acute, they are still rather restrictive, and some of the provisions of the law are also relatively unclear and probably require a little more elaboration in the process below. I will only draw attention to four such points, which we consider to be certain or vague, inconsistent, or inhumane, or very restrictive, in the List of Marjan Sarcas. The Ministry of the Interior, inter alia, proposes not to recognise the refugee status of the applicant, which poses a danger to the community or the security of the Republic of Slovenia. Up to here, everything is nice and well, but it is not really clear what kind of danger this is. It is not explained, it is not illustrated, and we will be in a situation where the official in charge of the procedure will somehow have to arbitrarily decide what it means. We feel that this should be further worked out in this article, illustrated by what examples, in short, to know what kind of danger it poses. It is also very questionable for us to say that it would be unacceptable for a minor to be accompanied by a relative or another person who chooses him in a personal interview with an official. We're talking about a minor, we're talking about children, we're talking about minors, and we're looking at a definition that seems not only unacceptable, but also inhumane. The Ministry of the Interior then proposes that a foreigner who spends the night without a permit outside the accommodation facility in which he was assigned be deemed to have his application for asylum withdrawn. So far, this deadline has been considered to be three days, a three-day absence. Of course, we understand that we want to prevent abuse of the procedure, we know that they do occur, but we feel, on the other hand, that the measure in view of the consequences of such behaviour is disproportionate and excessive. And with regard to the clear definition of the danger of escape. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior proposes to define the risk of escape more clearly by establishing objective criteria defining the indiscretion of a foreigner and that is why he is deprived of his liberty. In doing so, one of the criteria for indifference is a threefold violation of public order and peace over the past two years. It is our view that the violation of public order and peace cannot constitute a reason for the complacency on which the alien is deprived of his liberty. Here I have pointed out four provisions that we believe need to be corrected or reconsidered. The time for the amendment to the law to go through this treatment is also the internal ministry has every opportunity to give proposals of the kind that will continue to participate in the drafting of this law, as well as to listen to us politicians, and to make this amendment of the law more acceptable. However, as I have said, we fully agree in the List of Marjan Šarca that the Law on International Protection needs to be reformed and, of course, our follow-up procedures will also be decided on how the Ministry of the Interior will respond to our comments and the comments of other Members of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Mr. Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to answer right away. What you have said, Mr Medved, is a danger to the community is a literal translation, a copy of EU legislation. Well, we didn't think of anything. Thus, just as the EU has written legislation, so we have translated the danger to the community. What is more concrete, we have not defined, but of course we can also write this, but I think it is quite widely known what it is. So if someone is a potential terrorist, if someone is a religious fanatic who wants to do some illegal act here, smugglers of migrants, or those who implement it, are said to be a whole bunch of such people who are not defined in this law, but are defined in other laws, and also European legislation does not specifically mention them because they are already defined elsewhere. That is why it did not seem reasonable for us to add more to this translation. As far as minors are concerned, it is necessary to make it clear – this has also been said twice today, I think Mrs Tomićeva has talked about this – nothing has been taken away from the minor or nothing has been disabled. There's three things to say. A minor can be with his parents and parents are absolutely always there, so no problem. The minor can be himself, that is to say, he has no parents, in which case he is automatically appointed as a custodian, so the guardian by the state, and the minor can, of course, also receive legal support, I do not know which one of our countries. Pull away from being able to choose anyone else, but it was designed to protect him. In fact, imagine that the minor brought to Slovenia by a smuggler under the pressure of this smuggler, who would have told him in advance that if he were to be interrogated, he would have to choose him as the one he would represent – it is said, just to protect the minor. However, there has never been, nor is it prescribed in the law that a minor who has parents should be with him. My parents are always there. The third question, or what you pointed out in the end. But we are talking about the definition of a movement limitation, where it is written, is indeed written as you have read, i.e. three times a violation of public order and peace. Why? First of all, it's a kind of stepping up — what do I call it? – sanctions, penalties. If you come to a foreign country and commit one offence in one week and one week in another, it is only right that the sanctions are stepped up. More than that, there is an analysis that reveals that we have a relatively large number of people who are either here illegally or who are trying to come here repeatedly after they have been identified with some of the crimes that you have been talking about or written in here, precisely because of the abuse of asylum. After they commit a crime, they remember that they would have been granted asylum. In fact, it is a matter of reverse, as presented here, which has been asked here in some way, so I think that this escalation or escalation of sanctions is not at all controversial and helps to ensure that those who come and who want asylum in the country to which it comes, but from the very beginning it begins to respect the legal order of this country and realizes that it is coming into a regulated environment where things are sanctioned and where, after all, there is also a violation against public order of something that can cost them in some of the recurring segments of the violation of the law, that for a time when it waits or when it will be in the process of asylum, there is a limited movement. So, nothing special and my guess is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next, Mr Predrag Baković is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. A nice greeting to everyone here today! We have had quite a debate on asylum legislation, international protection and so on in this house, in particular on the committee responsible, the Committee on Home Affairs, under the previous government a number of committees or proposals proposed now by the largest coalition party, and much has been said about this and I sometimes feel that I am repeating myself and that I am speaking at all times the same. First of all, I must say that I think it is right for us to have a general debate on the two laws that are before us today, the law on international protection and the law on foreigners, which allows for such a procedure, so that if it continues to show that something needs to be corrected, we can also correct it. Secondly, it seems to me that these two proposals come from some of the proposals that we have received so far by the largest coalition party, irrespective of the fact that the competent minister comes from their kind. I think, and I speak for myself here, because in our party too, there may be a little more lack of confidence in government solutions, these two proposals seem to be different from the former proposals in a positive way and that they are following some of the positive changes that are being made in this area in the European Union. I have already pointed out in several of my previous discussions, in particular where there have been trends in some of the parties, in order to significantly amend legislation, in particular in terms of more restrictive legislation, that this area also falls heavily under the jurisdiction of the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia, in the sense that this is quite precisely the subject of regulations and other documents, the real area of asylum or international protection, and that, as a Member State of the European Union, we cannot, of course, allow ourselves to deviate from these principles and the rule of law of the European Union. When I look at these two suggestions today, or now I will just talk about it, it seems to me that there is no such derogation, or maybe I misinterpret it. My discussions so far have always gone in this direction that asylum legislation or international protection legislation must be renewed and it must be realized that legislation, which we also have at European Union level or European legal order, if I say so correctly, was created at some other time when situations were different, when there were fewer refugees or persons in need of protection or, if they were already, those persons, but there were not so many migrants and also illegal migrants. And in these debates, I repeat again and again that the then prepared legal order, which has established a high level of legal certainty and very appropriate procedures in asylum legislation, does not respond to the modern challenges that we have been facing since 2015 in particular. In this context, I absolutely welcome all measures at the level of the European Union and then our legislation, which contribute to a faster and more effective procedure for international protection and which will provide adequate assistance to those who really need international protection. As I have said many times, among the vast numbers of people who are now moving in particular towards Europe, towards Germany, of course, people who really need international protection and who really should be given total legal certainty, special treatment, some also solidarity, understanding and so on because of the situation they are in. On the other hand, I reiterate that I am against the abuse of those who do not need such protection and use it only to get somewhere, because, I understand, they have a difficult life, they want to live elsewhere. But this does not give them the right to abuse asylum law or international protection to the detriment of those who really need it because they are fleeing because of war or political persecution. And I'll say something else first. As a member of the Parliament of the Council of Europe, where I am also a member of the Committee on Asylum Law, I have had the opportunity to visit two countries on this subject. One was Cyprus and one was Switzerland. And there we also visited these accommodation facilities or asylum homes. Everywhere you go, you'll be told the same things, and that's what has been said today – at borders, at European borders there's a huge number of people who say they're politically persecuted or running from a war that's lost documents or said they've taken their documents, so they don't have them anymore, which was supposed to be in particular in 2015, the enemies or political opponents burned their fingerprints and couldn't identify themselves because they were burned. And another problem is, a huge number of these people claim to be minors, although of course they are not minors. Some may at first see that they are not minors. What's the problem? The problem is that this well-intentioned legislation, as I say, although it is properly called the acquis of the European Union, of course, provides for special protection measures for minors, as has already been said, special treatment, accommodation in particular, so that they are not together with full-year applicants, guardians, education immediately, allowance and so on. Of course, it's all right if it's children, even if it's small children. But as we were told on these visits, the vast number of people who appear to be 16, 17 years of age are said to be underage, but nothing seems to appear to be underage, get all these ratings, and what seems particularly controversial to me, then, for example, are placed in some accommodation facilities along with minors and so on. But what was I gonna say? Such challenges that virtually all countries of the European Union face at the borders, these two countries that we have visited respond in a completely different way. Cyprus, as a full member of the European Union, at least in the Greek part of where we were, has terrible problems. The number of asylum seekers, mostly men, is extremely high, so given that they are placed in many homes, the population of men in Cyprus is now significantly higher than that of women. It is a huge number of people who claim to be minors, as I mentioned earlier, who cannot, in accordance with the European legal order, identify whether they are minors or not, because they cannot take their DNA and do some other procedures, because this is not allowed by the legal order and so on. In short, crowded homes, problems in the enforcement of rights, problems in providing education for these children, serious doubts as to how old they are. And of course then, so everyone forwards, which is a little bit of a problem in the island, the defection of these people towards Europe and so on. On the other hand, we went to Switzerland, Zurich, where there is practically a residential home for asylum seekers or for those who have applied for international protection, where the situation is completely different. Switzerland has this opportunity to choose which rules it will respect and which provisions the European Union respects will also adopt for itself. There are so-called accelerated procedures, where within a period of – now I have a little forgotten, of which it is a few years – I think that for one month and for a maximum of three months they process every person who comes. They have an entry point at the border, the airport and so on, across Switzerland some asylum homes that are not necessarily at the borders, this is somewhere, as you know, the whole story that it has to be at the border, are also right in the center of the city where they bring them, extremely strict rules. You can go out there in the morning if they have a job and so on, less and every night back in. If they're not there by 7:00, there's no allowance. And they have all their available knowledge, I think, on the example of the Netherlands, they've pointed out that they have an extremely short process where the person is immediately on the spot receiving legal advice, what are his rights, in-depth discussions with the counselor, where it's also said what will happen if his rights are abused, medical examinations, DNA are taken lightly, that means that with a stick in his tongue, it's not some invasive system and so on to determine whether he's underage or not. And the system works there. It works to such an extent that most, I think, 80%, process in one month. I hope the Minister can tell us how long the average procedure takes. It's been a month, so we've been told. If they lied to me, I'm lying to you. But for those who complain and so on, the deadline is a maximum of three months. If conditions are not provided, there are no complications, they are taken to borders and, of course, handed over to Italy, Germany and so on. The Swiss don't care, they just put them out of Switzerland. I mean, no one in Switzerland is questioning that he's cruel, that he's cruel, that I don't know what he is, but he's very effective. That's why I think it's possible to solve these things in one cultured, legally consistent way, only there has to be a will and a good organisation to do it. I think, and I very much welcome this, that the European acquis is also going slowly in this direction. I hope you remember, here are some members of the Home Affairs Committee, the documents we've been looking at. 1. 2020 on the Committee, these are proposals for the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the various proposals for regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. One is on the management of asylum, one is on the introduction of checks on third-country nationals at external borders, one is on the handling of situations of crisis in case of force majeure, that is, what happened in 2015, when they made a large transition when certain derogations were allowed, then one is the establishment of a Eurodac system to compare biometric data due to efficient use and so on. It seems to me that all these documents are going precisely in this direction, namely to prevent abuses and to increase efficiency to protect those who really need asylum or international assistance, and at the same time to abuse and deal quickly with those who, in a difficult situation, I know, want to abuse it. And when the minister said - if you had anything else to say, I would be very interested in what part of it. You said that in one part our regulation is even stricter than in these documents prepared by the European Union. Because I did not find these differences in a quick review, but I found these trends, which also stem from the law, following an accelerated procedure, after the comparison of the data, after the age check, after not taking advantage of the procedure, if one sees that the applicant wants to go ahead and so on. So if you can tell me where it is. Of course, it is extremely difficult to solve some problems. Let's say I absolutely agree, this tells us one healthy farmer's logic, that no allowance can be made and the costs of procedures can be returned and all that can be proved to those who have their own resources. But how do we prove to them that they have their own resources? This seems like a totally difficult situation to solve. I absolutely agree with the return of those who seem to be abusing justice, but how do you see that? Okay, well, if he's been caught running twice, three times, that's one reason, but otherwise it's hard to figure out. Then the danger of escape. How can we determine that there is a danger of escape? What has already been said today is that it is unquestionably considered that someone has committed an offence against public order and peace I can agree that it is that someone commits crimes against public order and peace, a poor traveller for this person and no good prospects, but then it must be written down differently in the law, not that the offence against public order and peace shows indifference. [[…]] Doesn't look like it. It should then be noted that this person has fewer rights and so on. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think it's disputed what was said to be sanctions if one night the applicant doesn't return to the control center. If it is true that we want to prevent abuse, that people come, as was said, immediately at the border they apply for asylum, say that they have no documents, fill their phone, and run away the same night, then there is no need to wait three nights. It's a waste of time, of money, of expense, of driving a process for someone who's long gone in Germany. In principle, I think these solutions are perfectly fine. They seem to me to be in line with these regulations that the European Union is preparing and to which we have last defined ourselves as the positions of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to know where we are even stricter. I couldn't find it that fast. And I want to know, even though I know that this is also what these regulations are saying, how some things can be controlled. Because I thought this was the biggest problem so far in improving this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wanted to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Maybe it's about this rigor first. I guess we had a little misinterpretation here whether I misspoke or you misunderstood me. I said that within our party we wanted things to be stricter than they were in this law, but that given that European legislation has gone in the direction that you have said well, we could not implement all these rigours into this law. So there are no stricter requirements in the proposed law than at EU level, not stricter than in the pacts or legislative proposals that you quoted, but the desire to be stricter, but unfortunately because we are limited, has not been able to implement. The second thing that I think you've presented perfectly is Switzerland. I have to say, I absolutely sign under everything you've said. I wish it could be like that with us, but unfortunately it's not, but we're in a wider community, but Switzerland is independent, no one needs to be looked at. I'm talking about finding a compromise with an eight-year-old. One such case, which I don't understand, is that, despite all the effort, despite what you've said, it's already 100 meters clear that someone is not a minor, we don't have an institution or an institute to prove it. In the final phase, I take the DNA and find out that a man is not 17 years old, but he is 30 years old. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. Europe has protected these human rights so highly here that I wonder whether it is still meaningful or not in such procedures. And now the answer according to the allowance, the money, and so on. One of those who apply for asylum – we have about three categories. They're the ones, but they're rarer to say they've got some money. It makes sense, I see no reason to give them their allowance if they have the resources themselves. Others, who are fewer, work, for example. We know that they serve, they work legally and have incomes in the process of waiting for asylum, and it is logical that we do not pay them. For thirds of whom it's clear that they have money, but we can't give them anything, and they'll have to keep giving them pocket money, it's clear that if someone, like you said, has an iPhone, the last version, and fills it up immediately, it's clear that they have to have money from somewhere, even though it shows that they don't have money. But such things will be, given that we do not have jurisdiction and it has been repeatedly judged that, uglyly said, you cannot confiscate such things or that it is a personal property that, despite having no money, does not sink into the fact that he will participate in something, of course, is still entitled to the allowance. And that. I don't know exactly what it is either, probably these numbers that you've said about Switzerland are relatively accurate, let's say they're processing things in about 30 days or, I don't know, 45. No such deadlines can be provided for us. We now have an average time of one procedure or one treatment for about three months or up. Some are fast, some are not fast, but I have to say, and this has to be said that the average time in our house is also declining because so many people are running away. Because when they escape, within a reasonable period of time, it concerns that the shelf and it is said that this matter is solved is no longer under consideration. I wish those procedures would be quick, in 30 days or in two months. But while they're in the new pact, that's where you've been reading, things are even more manually defined, fast procedures, we talked about this last time on the committee, if you remember. It's still a few days, I don't know, 12 days or one month ahead, but they're much more regulated, and there's probably going to be progress in the sense that things can be reduced in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u152	Madam President, thank you for your word. Many things I wanted to point out for myself have already been highlighted by my colleague Maša, but there is still a need to repeat or make public. It has been said that migration exists for as long as there is a human species. But they're changing, both from the past and today. We have legislation as we have it, it is not the latest or it can be said that it is older, but the emerging forms in these migrations are new. I myself remember how they in the past asked for asylum, by either coming to the border crossing and expressing a clear desire for asylum there or perhaps also illegally crossing the state border and then quickly seeking either a policeman or a police station or a militia station, if you already want, sometimes, and there clearly, argued that they want asylum and also the reasons for it. But it's not like that anymore. Illegal migrants shall avoid safety authorities, which may mean at least two. Firstly, they do not trust them because they fear that they will not be taken into account and will be returned to the country from which they came, but they are of the opinion that they are entitled to asylum. That's what I'm afraid of. Or because they themselves know that they do not drink water or that they are not entitled to asylum, yet they try to do so. What do you do? It is important that we discuss these matters and that solutions are sought. I have already said at the previous point, and I will again say that whatever the political climate in Slovenia and the government we have in power at the moment, we must not look at what government has been preparing this legislation, but in terms of how we will effectively solve this immigration problem. I think it is certainly time for legislation to adapt adequately to these new emerging forms, but in doing so we must be really careful, because the system must not happen to overlook one single individual who would be entitled to international protection. We therefore need to adopt both legislation and the amendment of this legislation with extreme caution, as some in the past say, with a shaking hand. Here I would have two specific questions, I see that there is no minister at the moment, and I would ask the Ministry lady to explain things later. As far as the area of movement limitation is concerned. Article 84, paragraph 9, contains the term “capacities established at the border”. I'm here to see if we have the right capacity. For if we adopt this law with, say, an average number of illegal migrants and asylum applications moving there between 3 and 4 thousand, I wonder if we have so much capacity where we can properly define these measures. Of course, not everyone will get a movement limit, and I'm aware of that, but if we have 200, 300, 400, do we have that capacity? And I am interested in what is meant by the “capacities established at the border”. Are these going to be some kind of dumpster? Then what does this mean for the protection of these facilities? Will some new jobs or additional jobs be established? And so on. And another thing I'm curious about. In view of the additional powers relating to restrictions on movement, I would like to know whether administrative tasks will increase either for police officers or for asylum seekers. So what administrative tasks will they be, and what does this mean for either the police or those involved in this procedure and the asylum seekers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor and Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. I must say that I am pleased to accompany today's debate, even in the first proposal and even now in this second proposal of the law. Although we have different opinions, some also differing views on the solutions proposed, it seems to me that everything is going in a constructive spirit and that the elements of populism are moved slightly to the side, which certainly contributes to a better debate, not least to smart and good solutions. I also found it interesting to listen to colleague Masha Kociper, who presented two experiences. Perhaps this is where we would have stopped ourselves at the time of the pressures or when the largest number of these migrants were arriving in Slovenia. At that time, I visited the accommodation center in Brežica with my colleagues, including from the parliamentary group, and I had a very interesting experience and, in my own way, an incredible experience, and at that time I also got a slightly different view of some things. When I looked at a literal crowd of people who are pressing into our country, I must tell you that it was already clear that there were very few women, children among them, and that these were mostly middle-aged men. It's the other way around. I will never forget, because we went to the center just at the time the migrants caused the arson of one of these centers, the real arson of what people quickly put, the temporary residents and the opportunity to enable them, as they could be helped, but there was a burning by migrants. What did I experience there? I would also like to share this experience with you because I may have a different view of these illegal migrants in some way than, for example, the left policy option. In fact, when we arrived at this accommodation center, we also looked at the full capacity. We came right after these people got a meal, they were just cleaning up and so on. And then we went for a walk with these migrants. They immediately began to wonder if we might be journalists. Or maybe we're international journalists, the next question was. Are you representatives of any non-governmental organization? Because we did not answer this immediately because these questions flew from different sides, that is, they came very close to us when they saw us, was immediately their next message: we are hungry here, we are not getting food, we are cold. Look, that was right after they got the meal. When we told them that we were representatives of politics, they literally ran away. And soon I saw them pointing at some other people who had come through there. Why am I saying this? It is precisely because it is in my interest, and I will always say that it is helping those who are in need, and that everything that is in my power as Members, and not least citizens, is done to protect the interests of the country and to protect themselves by law also in areas where the greatest abuses are taking place today. I think it says in itself that someone who really comes from a threatened area will never act in such a way that he will cause disorder here, that he will cause violence in safe countries and that he will exploit the system. He will probably do his best to ensure that the country accepts it as well as it will in some way restore its gratitude. As we look at the data, in one of the introductory positions it has been said that the so - called pressures of applications for international protection are falling — I cannot agree with this. In fact, if we start in 2015, 277 applications for international protection were submitted, in 2018, two years after that, already 2 000 875 applications for international protection were submitted, in 2016, according to this interim period, almost 220 % of the number of applications submitted for international protection was increased. And if we speak for the year, two years will now, of course, have already been two years ago, 3 000 821 applications were submitted in 2019, which is a good 30% more than in 2018. So we're not saying that the number's falling, but it's increasing. Some would like to point out that in 2020 there were slightly fewer such requests, 3 000 568. That's true, but, dear colleagues and colleagues, I find this information amazing. Why? This whole trip, where the pressure in Slovenia is the greatest, has been faced with co-ordination. Even in all these countries, where this pressure is from, there have been more exacerbations. And these transitions should, in some way, reflect the situation, which means that if they were not faced with co-ordination, this pressure on Slovenia, as far as international protection requirements are concerned, would be significantly greater. Subtlely bigger. Why do I feel like I need some things to get tough? If you look at all of these sharpening suggestions, if we can call it that, I'll say more adjustments to the new situation, we can see that they are meant not to be abused. None of these proposals are intended to prevent the help of a mother with a child and so on, but are aimed at preventing abuse as much as possible. You know, if abuses were not in these processes or in these pressures, then certainly they would not be talking about any particular pressure on our country and also on other countries, but they would be talking about a number of migrations, which through history are indeed a fact and there would be no problem. But it's not like that. Why do I think it is very important that we take some solutions now and that we cannot wait for a common European asylum system? I would like to tell you some examples of events from Bosnia and Herzegovina, not back but back in 2021. Why am I talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina? Because this is the way the most illegal migrants come to Slovenia. The numbers from which they come are actually similar. Frontier Pakistan, Morocco. These numbers are absolutely similar. What is important in this matter is what is happening in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just to make it easier for you to see, a few cases. 4. 1. 2021 Mutual violence, so there has also been an arms charge. Mutual violence, respectable. Thus, people who, according to some estimates, even in this national assembly, need help, are extremely poor, extremely suffering, but among them there is violence. If I look at myself and imagine that there would be a moment that would require me to leave my country, believe me, the last thing I would do would be to cause problems and violence between those who are leaving the country and those who are offering me help. Then, look, it's 12. 1st attack of migrants against a local resident who was badly wounded. 20. First riots, major riots downtown near Sarajevo, where about 3,000 migrants are stationed. 21. The 1st attack on the police was done by a group of migrants. They damaged about 20 vehicles, and they also injured police officers. On the basis of this mess in the centre of Sarajevo – respected and very interesting – the police acted by reviewing this centre and among all those who were registered and supposed to be in this centre were 17 persons who were not supposed to be in there and who were perpetrators of the crime either in the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina or in other countries. So that's what we're saying, that there's some way to make an incision. Cut to the fact that such individuals, groups, come to our country and do something similar. In Slovenia we have already witnessed some serious, brutal attacks. I also cannot agree with this bill, as stated in the position of the left-wing Group on the part of its colleague Violeta Tomić, that we are hustling the border dwellers. You know, I remember a citizen who was kidnapped by illegal migrants at the time – and you know what they were saying? Some went so far as to even say that the citizen was not only lying but also organizing self - abduction. I mean, you know, we go so far in mistrust with our own citizens, while on the other hand some people would trust everything and not take any steps forward to limit those who abuse our system. [[…]] I also cannot agree with the fact that we are causing scolding. On the contrary. Citizens and citizens, especially at the border, are asking us to move forward. In a way, I would like to think in the future about setting up a special fund where people who are either illegal migrants with their assets or have incursions, destruction of property could somehow be helped. Why? For they have no chance of launching any criminal procedure, because then these people are gone. A lot of them disappear. Today we hear they're here for a few days and then they move on. In short, these people can't even seek justice in the courts. Can you imagine? We are obliged to protect our citizens and citizens and we are obliged to help them. Thus, their own citizens do not have the right to initiate and enforce certain proceedings before the courts, because this simply cannot be done. So it seems very important to me that, I hope, in the future, we will also sometimes say something on this subject, to show in some way also to citizens and citizens that we are on their side and that we absolutely reject any violence and any negative behaviour of the people who are coming. It may also be necessary to say something about these minors, who are called minors. It is true that what has been said is that they want to take advantage of certain privileges that we allow for minors, and it is only right that we allow them, but the fact is that these things do not work and that we need to find a system. It is also right to introduce a fuse in this sense. If I could just take all this together. I absolutely welcome this proposal for amendments to the Law on International Protection. It is true, as the minister said, because we come from the same political party, so that in some parts we may wish that some matter was prepared even more harshly. But look, even if you were sharper, that doesn't mean anything would be wrong. You know, it doesn't mean that in some area, some crackdown means that it's not going to be in accordance with some kind of legislation or human rights, because in these cases we like to highlight it very much. But to conclude, I was a little surprised by the opinions, debates, or views of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Not because we do not share the same opinion, not at all, but I am surprised that their visible representative, many times mentioned in public as also an idea leader, but that Damir Črnčec had an extremely sharp view of illegal migration. I believe that you know his views, given that a compromise is being sought here, I found it somewhat unusual that this party, however, does not see important solutions in this direction. So far, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija is next. But since there are very few debaters left, I will read the list to the end. Then they get the word of Mr Primož Siter, Mr Janez Moškrič, Željko Cigler, Nik Prebil, Nataša Sukič and in the end mags. Branko Grimes. Mr. Korazzi, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u156	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Here we go. As many discriminatory expressions and prejudices as we have heard in the last 20 minutes, I don't know if I'm capable of writing on four A4 papers right now. First of all, this law should in fact be aimed at international protection of refugees, but it is written as if it were in the direction of preventing as many refugees as possible from reaching international protection. In fact, in Slovenia this has been doing quite well for 25 years because, as far as I know, around 989 people have been granted international protection as refugees. The issue, which is very controversial, is – but now I will also go to Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert, I must admit that there is one better debate in the National Assembly, but the debate was very counterproductive and in fact the refugee represented a very negative connotation. I think there was something about us that we helped in that refugee wave on the ground, and I believe that everything was not great, because we were also not great in Slovenia. If we went through the days, as Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, a Member, described the situation on the ground, I think we would find the same cases in Slovenia, if not more, of various crimes or worse. Unfortunately, there have been indescribable things happening recently because of the coronary virus. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert said very well that it is necessary to protect our citizens and citizens – I fully agree, every life is sacred. No matter how or what, every life is sacred. But then I also have a very direct question for her because she talked about these refugees as if they were second-rate or third-rate: why didn't you protect our citizens and citizens that she was already over 3,000 dead because of the coronavirus? Why didn't you? And again, in these matters, the police powers are expanding again, it is said, as much as possible and as widely as possible to prevent or divert the possibility of refugees to international protection. In fact, we are constantly discussing this in this national assembly, and I think we are very united in the fact that everyone can happen, that we may even be forced to ask for international protection as refugees. Unfortunately, the world is not ideal, but we can make it. And that is why we need to think far - reaching or in the future. Anyone may have to — I hope not — but I don’t want anyone in the world to — leave my home, leave home, leave my family, and because you want to feed your family, go on a long, difficult journey, full of obstacles and dangers to provide for your family and yourself in any way. And this discourse you're creating on the right side of the government, that they're bringing refugees into our culture, or people who were forced to go on the road, and they're going to destroy our civilization to destroy us as a country and everything else. If we look around – Europe is a multiculture. And if we don't realize that, then it's better to make some gulag of Oziroma, or are you thinking in this direction that this would be a closed area, just to give a breath of cover to Slovenia and we're not going anywhere but no one will be able to come to us? [[…]] Then we'll really be the economist's pot – a flea! I do not know why this is constantly present in Slovenia. Or as I listen to the right-wing debaters of the Europeans, I will say, right-wing parties, I have recently listened to Mr. Armin Laschett, the new president, because Mr. Chernigoj knows him well, in my opinion, Laschet, Armin Laschet. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Montenegro. Yes, Montenegro. Okay. Well, if you listened to his speech – this is scientific fiction for the Slovenian right scene. This was a speech in the future, in fact, man had the feeling that something good would really happen in the future, even though good things were not happening to us. And that, look at that, Christian Democrat. Really, with a vision. I have to admit, I was just looking at fat, that's all I was. [[shows with gesture]] . That's crazy. And I miss that in fact no party in Slovenia is even perfect, we all try to be better, we all try to do our best, because it is clear, but I do not understand why Slovenian right policy is constantly so against, against, against, against human rights, against refugees, against this. [[…]] You've never been to say about, about man, about nature, about animals. Directly. I'm telling you, this marriage is a non-diggage, I'm just gonna say it. Because I do not imagine Slovenia in the future so that we will be a closed society that will deal with it as Mrs Maša Kociper on a global committee explains the story of a girl. Is that what we want? No, no, no. We don't want that. We've worked too long to live with a more open society, an open society. And look, all things are a matter of agreement and it's also possible to do better, but not talk about people as if they were, I don't know, horrible monsters, monsters coming to us because they want a better life. What if we were in the same situation at the border? I mean, unimaginable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. First we have Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's replica, then he wanted to speak to Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I have a replica because I was mentioned and also obviously misunderstood. I have a respected colleague of Coražija for one such very peaceful Member, so that I do not take his discussions maliciously. But today, in some part of your debate, you felt this maliciousness and it is right to say so. First of all, I made it clear that I'm separating refugees from migrants and that it's a talk about illegal migrants. Slovenia is an open country, but, of course, open in a legitimate way. But someone can't have more rights than his own citizens. That's not gonna work! This is not the case because our citizens are filling the cash register and our citizens are also allowing us to help those who need help. You know, building a policy on the number of deaths in a co-vidal time is not only unfair, it's also more than malicious. I think you were one of the loudest people in here who resisted action. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look at the pictures on the streets and you'll see who's been involved. Finally, you have repeatedly rejected the measures we have taken, so that you do not talk about it. I'd like to tell you something. If you count the deaths today and attribute it to the current policy, then please answer me nicely, when you were a super-coalist party, how many homes did you rebuild for the elderly, built, how many nursing hospitals did you at least start building, or where did you spread a network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Koražija, there are no replicas on the replica, unless I would have estimated that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert was providing some incorrect information. In the light of the debate I have listened to, I do not think that she has given any incorrect information or information. But she replicated a little bit more, but I didn't interrupt. If I understand correctly, we have a procedural proposal. Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In this implementation, the Vice-President-designate is one procedural figure. In fact, a member she knew she could not answer asked: “Then you tell me, Member of Korah, what ” I don’t know. [[…]] Having self-inflicted a bunch of lies about the material we have on the table and the implementation of a colleague of Koražija. First time. The left party has never been a super-coal party or a member of any government coalition so far. It's verifiable. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u161	Mr. Siter, what is your procedural proposal, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u162	Please remind the Member that he cannot challenge the Member to respond if he does not have a business basis to do so. We're talking about very specific topics, we're listening to the SDS party spit on the left side because it advocates some illegal ways. Are you kidding? 100% of the proposals that the SDS came to the table in this mandate, 100 % of these proposals were said by the Legislative and Legal Service: they break the legal order, they break the constitutional order. And now the SDS are calling for legality! Come on, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u163	Mr Siter, this is already a substantive debate and it was not much like a procedural proposal. I did not understand the implementation of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert as a call from my colleague Koražija to answer her, but if so, he himself found himself in her replica and estimated that he should answer her. This, however, has an opportunity at the end of the discussion, when time is shared, so that I do not see any business kicks, except that the replica was a little wider. But as in practice, we do not remind Members of every single word that goes a little wider. So I reject the motion. If we proceed with the debate, Mr Minister has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to speak to Mr Koražija, probably not only to him, but also to the general public once again, if Mr Koražija is so kind as to hear this. Look, many times I have heard about this and I have seen from his debate that they are essentially equalising illegal migrants and refugees. These are two different categories. Two different categories. And look, last year, Mr Koražija, honourable Member, there were 14 000 illegal migrants in Slovenia. Fourteen thousand 500. They're not refugees. Of these 14 thousand 500 were for asylum, that is, under the nicknames, wishing that they were refugees, asked for 3,000 500 of them. So a little more than 20%. This is the first difference: not all illegal migrants are refugees, and of the 14,000 illegal migrants 3 000 500 have applied for asylum. Of the 3,000 500 who were asked for asylum, 87 were favored, so they were granted refugee status, 215 of which were rejected. So 3 thousand 500 minus 300 is 3 thousand 200, I'm talking in round numbers. All the other 3 thousand 200 and either it disappeared from our space, so they didn't wait until the end of the process, which means they didn't want this asylum. Here we have two categories. [[…]] These are the ones which should be processed in accordance with the Dublin Regulation, which has indeed stalled in the past year, given that Slovenia was not competent for many of them under the Dublin Regulation because it was not responsible for dealing with them because they entered elsewhere in the European space. Last year, the Dublin regulation virtually collapsed because of the covido, but all three thousand 200 disappeared. So, out of the 3,000 500 asylum seekers, 3 000 200 disappeared, and 3 000 500 potential refugees, compared to all illegal migrants in Slovenia, accounted for only 22% of these. So I think it's okay to tell the public again, the illegal migrant, the refugee, the Dublin Regulation, so I know exactly what we're talking about. Given that I was a little late to apply for the floor earlier, I would also like to reply to Mr Baković. The border procedure is already defined in both our legislation and the European Directive today. So what we are introducing is not new, but it is already possible under existing legislation. What we are introducing is that we are also allowing movement restrictions to be imposed in these border procedures. This movement limit is fully in line with existing EU legislation. We now have not had this taken over, we have not had this movement limit taken over, we are introducing what Europe already knows by this law. Therefore, it is also possible to limit movements at border crossings for the purposes of implementing or identifying the requirement for international protection. What you have said is, of course, true – because of these new orders, part of bureaucracy will increase, if we call it that, or administration. But certainly also with this increase, it is said that additional staff, we want to shorten the processing time itself. So we're going to need more people, but it's supposed to shorten the process itself. Are these additional capacity on border plateaus or border posts? Here he goes, but here he needs to be made clear. I've been talking to the Ministry of Public Administration for about two months now. You know, I don't think it was the law that, according to some regulation, that all objects, which I think is nonsense, are, say, border blocks or border checkpoints, we now say in Croatia, where there are still houses and so on, these houses or these buildings are not in the management of the MJU, nor in the Ministry of Home Affairs. I would also like to talk with Minister Koritnik about all these objects coming back to the MNZ at the first stage, but at the second stage, of course, the MNZ should ensure either that these facilities are adequately extended, or that what you have said, possibly with some containers, is temporarily extended to ensure that this border control can be carried out on border platforms. I'm sure it's also about investment investments, that's not disputed. Something will need to be invested in these limits. If it remains as it is, if it remains here this Schengen border, the Schengen area. If this Schengen space is no longer on our southern border, but this will move to the border between Croatia and Bosnia and Croatia and Serbia, of course these borders will fall here, so of course these objects will fall. That is why we are very afraid or have repeatedly said that in the new pact, which is now in the procedure, it is necessary to explicitly define this grey fox, what the external Schengen border means and the non-external borders of the European Union. Here we are affected by us and some other countries, I think – who else is there? – Hungary, for example, which also has such a boundary, I think another country. But here in this new pact this issue will have to be resolved, so that we do not come into a grey zone where things cannot be done, given that we are not the external borders of the EU. As the new Pact mainly refers to enhanced screening or verification of entry at the external borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Replica, Bostian Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u166	President, thank you very much for your word. It's like this. When Mr Hojs or someone from the SDS speaks – give them more respectable speech. We're talking about people, and you're always doing distinction, these are refugees, these are migrants. Hello? We're talking about the fates of people's lives. These aren't numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u168	I am not underestimating anything, but we are also talking about people, Mr Korazi. We're talking about someone who crosses the border illegally, an illegal migrant, or if you want an illegal fugitive, because you can say so. But of these illegal refugees, I call them illegal migrants, because, once again, all those who have illegally crossed the border are not refugees, because they have not already decided to be refugees, out of the 14 thousand 500 illegal migrants, only 3 thousand 500 have applied for international protection. [[…]] So, only 20% of them are actually refugees if I use this language, and the others are, in my opinion, also after what we see, labor migrants or they want to come to Europe in an illegal way, but they don't want to have political asylum, because they don't even mention it in their own Even during the 3 000 500, let's say those 215 who have been refused if they go to Europe now – I'm saying – I'm sure they were also rejected because they made it clear that no one is harassing them, actually where they're coming from, there's no war, but that they want to come to Germany to work. [[…]] This is not the legal basis for giving someone asylum, political asylum. This is simply a migrant worker and it is logical that both a request and a refugee application must be rejected in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the debate. These definitions, I hope, have been understood by the debaters. Primoz Siter has the word, and John Muskriè will be next. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President. One good day again, all of you! I'm going to continue my trifle where Coražija and Hojs have just finished. When we talk about refugees as people, we need to mention something. No matter how hard it has been to talk about an illegal migrant in the last five or six years, it is difficult to talk about a person who is illegal. A person can't be legally illegal as a category. The border crossing could be unregulated, but we can't say that Nick the Beat was illegal there in any way. Either get Sutter or Aleish Hoys or anyone. That's what we're talking about, this dignity that we give people. And it's also a question of if we're talking about terminology when we're talking about refugees. The times when refugees were people who fled from one section, from one geography to another geography exclusively and only because of a war conflict at that starting point — these times are over. We have significantly greater problems than humanity are faced with significantly greater problems, such as armed conflicts alone. Literacy, extreme poverty, climate change and so on. All the reasonable reasons why a person escapes from point a at point b. But anyway, I will continue to discuss this further. I am now going to the mother of the law, which I believe is essentially in this beautiful title, the Law on International Protection, lies everything but international protection. We are talking more about a system to prevent refugees from reaching out to international protection, in fact to quality international protection, to quality treatment in procedures. The continuous sharpening and sharpening and flexing of these rules and regulations, which can even qualify a person as not illegal in the eyes of the current government, makes no sense at this point. Official statistics by the police, for example, indicate a reduction in the number of irregular crossings. Previously in the opening position of the Group of Members, a colleague of Violeta Tomić served some of these numbers. The argument “Oyo, now the mass of these people is coming and we must tighten the conditions, we must, I don't know, do this and the one and the other to calm or control this wave”, this argument doesn't drink water because there is no wave. There's no such thing as a real cop. Reduced number of applications submitted for asylum. Despite the decline in the number of people crossing the border in an irregular way, the return to Croatia has increased enormously – well, this is the statistics that we have to worry about, these statistics of these illegal ones, and these are illegal pushbacks. So rejecting people who enter Slovenia to even go through the procedures by the book to say, and instead these illegal chain pushbacks. One very interesting thing just flew in. I am looking at yesterday's Dnevnik and conscience says: "Bosnian police officers have found Slovenian police documents in the fugitives that prove chain returns." Bosnian police have confirmed to Dnevnik that they have discovered Slovenian police documents, i.e. in refugees, they prove that from Slovenia through Croatia to Bosnia there is an illegal chain return. “So far, Slovenian police have claimed that they are not officially aware of the illegal consequences of their conduct.” So the police say they're not familiar, and the Bosnian police are showing documents that they're not only aware of it, but they've been doing it. It's illegal to bring people back. We have to ask ourselves. Minister, you're talking about numbers, so many have come, so many have asked for asylum, let's really ask, what is this number, how many people are never recorded because a police leg kicks them back. Apparently these numbers are, ask your Bosnian colleagues. This danger of an increased number, and I don't know what uncontrollable crowds there are. There is no need to exacerbate such measures. And also the argument we heard earlier from colleague Anja Bah Žibert that we don't know that they can be dangerous people, that they cause conflict, that there is violence here – let's see the numbers. I personally asked your predecessor at the Ministry of the Interior a question before a good year about how many crimes of violence were caused by foreigners, then for 2019. In fact, the figure goes to you more to the mill, because there were fewer transitions in 2020, this number was lower. How insignificant, though, I don't know, not one percent of the crimes, but now they're afraid that, I don't know, some violent revolution will happen and all the refugees will come together and rape all the Slovenian women, burn all the weekends and kidnap all the pensioners. That's ridiculous. These are just some rhetorical tricks of the political right that pour some hatred on the mill again, so that – I don't even know why. So he's got another culprit to point to with his finger when we all point to government incompetence or something. I don't know. I don't know why. Minister, you can look at these numbers, 18 June 2019, now I see, I have asked this question and also received a very specific answer with numbers and statistics. I can't help but see this law and such measures, this cleavage and the deprivation of human rights as the next step in the open, forgive me, racism. Pointing your chest at some other people who aren't ours. This discourse is used by the government, from the right policy of the last five, six years more and more and more, starting with your central medium Nova24. Where this leads, however, we saw Norma Korošec a few days ago: blacks are less intelligent and I don't know what else to do, I won't even repeat. It is only sad how the government and the entire right scene, as my colleague Koražija would say, create a discourse that will cause people who have been forced to flee their country, destroy our country, destroy our culture and destroy entire civilization. But I am not a Catholic, but I would like to listen to Pat Gržan, who is a very clear social critic and who is in one of his conversations that I witnessed to him alone, said: “Yes, help me if some of these poor people threaten the existence of our Christian Europe, but better not.” Dear government representatives, we are in crisis. That is a fact, we all agree. We are in an economic, social, public health and other climate crisis, and the government is working at this point on how to subvert some of the individual's rights, where possible. There is still a problem with the pockets for a fugitive, as the minister said, for those few 18 euros or as much as he owns, his ministerial colleague will charge 130 000 euros to his society in the same breath. I'm sorry, I can't buy this patriotic thing. Now, to the point. The reason why we are even dealing with this issue. Why is there a refugee problem in Slovenia and Europe in 2021 or since the beginning of 2015, since the beginning of this refugee wave? Let's see why people run from where they run to us. There they are persecuted on the basis of faith, based on race, nationality, I don't know, political belief, in their homelands there are war, hunger, extreme poverty, environmental, economic exhaustion. In Africa, for example, conflicts are currently taking place in 30 countries, in Asia in 16, in the Middle East in the seven, there are currently conflicts and wars in 69 countries around the world. Now, here's the thing. They are among them, and we hear the most about them, such as Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan, Somalia, Libya and Syria. Do we know any common denominators, what do all these countries have in common, and what do these war conflicts have in these countries? That the predominant confession is Islam? No, no, no. Are they black? No, no, no. Are they Arabs? No, no, no. What is the common denominator of war conflicts in all these countries? Then the invasion. This is a common denominator of war conflicts in all these countries and the main engine for these people to get out of there at all. And what are we doing? How do we solve this problem? By throwing more and more public funds into additional weapons each time, we will further desolate their homelands so that more people will be able to escape from there into light Europe. But we will close our borders. It's our patriotism. 780 million for this kind of patriotism in just one marriage package. If we are to solve this refugee problem, a respected minister who is so big and important in your eyes, and we are also truly globally looking at it, let us see where its origin is. His reason is that NATO, the military industry, is insatiable. He's looking for new goals, looking for new conflicts, but when he needs to feed his machine, he comes where? To us. And he says, give us 780 million or give us that kind of percentage of your GDP. Every time more, at the expense of our public health, at the expense of our social state, at the expense of the non-survival of our economy, our worker and so on. Here you go. A refugee problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you very much. First the Minister asked for his word, then we'll give the replica. Here you go, Minister Alesh Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you. I'd just respond for a little while. Dear Mr Siter, it seems to me that you have mixed up the issue of the number of refugees or migrants or illegal migrants with what we are currently dealing with. Here we do not consider a bill that defines that this law applies only to 2 000 refugees or up to 10,000 or up to 30 000, but we are adopting a legal norm that will generally apply, no matter how many refugees are going to be where. For you, this can be small, it can be large, it can fall or it can not fall, the indisputable fact is that we can be in the media, and we have been monitoring this in fact over the past few months, seeing that in fact there is an enormous number of refugees or migrants, both in Bosnia and in Serbia, who are all meant not to come to us, but to Western Europe. The fact that we are blinded by the fact that they are not, or that it will all of a sudden be over, makes no sense to me, because the facts speak the opposite. Here again, I would like to point out that the asylum system or existing legislation that provides international protection works shows that, however, 3 000 500 people have submitted an international protection request last year. Fourteen thousand minus three thousand 500 is eleven thousand 200, and so many have not done so. And what you stated that they found in Bosnia refugees with Slovenian papers, that, I don't know what, we're selectively returning them or something else, it seems to me that these people here in Slovenia have been processed. When someone's caught at the border and he's -- you call it -- of course it's not about being illegal, of course he's not illegal, he's a person, just like everyone else. I think that UN legislation is quite accurate about "irregular migration", it is said not to be illegal migrants, but the whole European legislation relies on illegal migration or illegal migration. Either the translations were wrong, or I won't go into it, but no one talks about this man not being illegal and so on. But the fact is, he's crossing the border irregularly. It crosses the border where it cannot be crossed, and therefore is illegal, illegal in terms of border crossing, not person as such. Those who have not applied for international protection in the number of 11,000 have been captured by our security authorities, and have communicated with them. Otherwise, we would not know that there are 11,000, or 14,000, and 11,000 of those who did not. But the 3,000 -- I don't know how many there are, I'm sure there are a few -- I'm thinking now -- which aren't in these numbers, they're not. They crossed our border so that no one could see them and our Croatian probably also Italian or, I don't know, Austrian, and God knows where they are. These aren't in these numbers. But these 11,000, which are in these figures, Slovenia has legally returned to Croatia, legally based on a bilateral agreement or under a Dublin regulation. None of the things you said earlier that they found in Bosnia that they were already on the Slovenian border, that this is now something illegal, is true. Anyone who was in Bosnia who said that he was trapped at the Slovenian border, if I say so, and did not apply for asylum, but could apply for asylum, because 3,000 500 of them applied for asylum, voluntarily decided not to apply for asylum and was returned to Croatia on a legal basis. I suppose, of course, this is not in my jurisdiction, nor do I know exactly, I suppose that Croatia has the same agreements or the same agreement with Bosnia, so it can return them there. I do not see these problems here, as you have indicated, that our police or the Slovenian system would do something wrong. He's doing the right thing. What has been heard today is that Italy has said that it will not bring back illegal migrants who have come to Slovenia, of course I cannot comment because I have not read the judgment, or all that your colleague has read here holds or is not. I think she didn't say everything, it would really be necessary to even read the judgment, but we have the same agreement with the Italians. So if the Italians catch an illegal migrant there in the municipalities and he does not apply for asylum with them, of course they return him to Slovenia because we have a bilateral agreement to take back everything that goes illegally and does not apply for asylum. It's just European rules. And I don't see anything like that in this, I'd say, like you want to show here that people are being treated inhumanly and so on. Of course it's a problem. I agree it's a problem. The problem is probably also in our asylum home, and the problem is elsewhere in Bosnian asylum homes and so on. But you have to understand that if he comes anywhere, I don't know, 20,000 people, that it's not easy to manage as if someone came to the hotel and paid for a place to stay, and they would pedal him there, just like we did at the hotel. That is why I think it is right that we do not go to populism in this part, as Mrs Anja has already said. It seems to me that we are going in this part of the population, because that migration will exist, that Slovenia will – I guarantee you that the story of spring will be exactly the same as it was last year. We can bluff, but we can say, look, it all went down 300 last year. I guarantee you there will be a boom again in the spring as soon as winter passes, as the temperatures rise, the pressure on our southern border will be the same as it was last year. It's hard to say whether 10% is going to be higher or 10% going to be smaller, but in any case this pressure is going to be. And of course, until what is somehow foreseen in the new pact at European level, let's say robust screening at the external borders, it will take so long to expect this to happen at our borders. Of course, there will be no dilemma, Croatia is not without blame. That's what I always say. But this is not Croatia without guilt. If in some way we are trying strictly to stop all these illegal migrations from entering Eurodac and so on, Croatia, I don't know why, or I can think why, has taken a different approach. You can even wink at one eye and put things forward and think, look, because if they come through, and I don't have a problem with it, and so on. But okay, that's another story, that's not the story of the International Protection Act itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Replica, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman, for the replica. I have to take this. Comrade Siter, I believe that you did it in a kind of awe, but that you said that because violence is not much, that is something really bad that you said. There's just too much violence. Any violence is too much, any alienation or trespassing is too much if it comes from even people who are here illegally, but it's so much worse. I politely invite you to accompany me to the municipality of Šentjernje, and you will tell these people how rude they are, because they are not right to protest because someone is causing them to disqualify their property, and the destruction of their property is not the result of physical accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Janez Moškrič has the word and will be followed by Željko Cigler. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! At the outset, I ask the representatives of the Left not to think of my thinking as challenging you or any personal insult. In fact, I'm going to give you some information that you've summarized, what you said, so I don't want the debate to go into accusing each other. Because after eight and a half hours, I'm kind of calm. Why am I calm? Because I can see that you're lonely, that the thought of the Left is lonely. Although I'm very sad. Why? Because your actions are not what the statements are. So, as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, you accuse me of being impatient, of not wanting to help, of reading mine, of saying Christian belief or of what I was raised to do. See, together with the main national assembly, with the main parties in the National Assembly, we have found that the differences between those persons from third countries, which means not from the European Union coming to the territory of the European Union, and also from the Republic of Slovenia, which is part of this and even on the edge of the so-called Schengen border, are one of those countries that protects the Schengen border. So, a war fugitive — absolutely needed help. A refugee because of other beliefs, whether religious or political — absolutely. Then we have some people who, after 2015, came mass to the territory of Europe without documents. Even more, equipped with certain information on how they should behave in order to reach the desired goal, is the right work, for example, in Germany. What have these people even experienced? They had to pay, and they paid, to certain criminal groups of large sums so they could get to that limit. Moreover, the sad stories of shipwrecks at sea, those with less money, probably chose this shorter route and more risky. These are the stories that have been dealt with not only by Slovenia for the last five years, but also by the whole of Europe. It was well told how different these people are in processing. If we have heard that one of the countries of Europe, which is not a member of the European Union, is called Switzerland, this is well-ordered, not least recall the basic document, the basic international document governing the protection of refugees – is what? It is the Geneva Convention and the Protocol. I am firmly convinced that the state of Switzerland is proud of this document and respects it. On the other hand, however, legislation has been somewhat different in this area and does not have the same problems as the rest of Europe. The abuses of those who are coming are, we agree on this in most political parties. What is abuse or abuse for you may well be the subject of conversation and debate. But if someone comes to the Republic of Slovenia with a very good modern phone – again he does not hold me to the word for a particular person – he certainly did not come from an area where there was no survival where there was no basic human right to food. Because we know the goodies cost you something. So those who want this basic assistance will probably always be welcome in the European Union. The European Union is not a multicultural, the European Union is a culture with a millennium tradition and this tradition is based on Christian roots. And it is true that Christianity promotes always assistance to an individual and compassion, and not least that part of Europe, which is not so much Christian, is largely based on respect for human rights. That is why people want to go to Europe — because we help those who need help. This relationship has probably broken in recent years. Maša Kociper said nicely on the committee, when she said vividly that when someone in third countries, where it is not really for survival, where there are really difficult conditions, sees the beauty of Europe, not least Slovenia – yes, it is in his eyes as a dream for his future. But there's a limit somewhere. And I don't mean physically from the state, but the borders are that if we accept all of these people who would like to come from Africa to Slovenia, then we'll all be poor. But if we can help them with something, some of them can be accepted, the hardest, and the story will be different. In this direction, I repeat, there are also European-level documents going in this direction. Once again, despite being told by my colleague Kociprova, the real Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of asylum and migration, then on the takeover of citizens outside the borders, on verification, on the establishment of a common procedure for international protection, and on biometric data. In fact, we know that the problem is the same people in the system when they travel back. It must be really hard on this path, but we must tell them or give them a picture like Europe, like Slovenia, that in Europe only those who need help temporarily or those that Europe really needs for work can be. These relations have thus deteriorated due to the economic situation of Europe in recent years. When there were no workers in this area, in that area, Europe did not know whether or not some representatives, some European countries, what to do. Because we know that there are more and more people in the world watching globally, and unfortunately there are fewer and fewer people in Europe. Maybe even because of this multiculture of politics of the last, I don't know, 20, 30, 40 years, 50 years, not yet, because we know, after World War II, that somehow Europe has recovered, even Slovenia. Regardless of the situation she was in, cruel after World War II, that so many and so many men suddenly lost the country or this area, then somehow recovered. So let's have this story and this picture in front of our eyes. If we can sum it up with everyone – yes, we want something like Switzerland to make the rules clear in this community. And then this document will be like the first one at the previous point – you know what? The foundation, I repeat, is the foundation for destroying these unfortunate fences. Because he won't, there won't be any migrants all of a sudden. That's my wish. Because we know that fences are really one of those images that we're not all proud of, but a sad story of sad reality. That is why I support this document, and I am glad that the others see one good solution in this document. I don't want to do international or, I'll say, stories that some people in Levica see, how this is all related to weapons and the military. No, and then I really think that the story that could be an example of one cooperation of a huge number of countries in the area of security. This is the basis for its establishment. It is true that in recent years he also — well, several years ago — had to mediate within his borders, which is sad, but this has happened to us, too, Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Member Željko Cigler has the word and will be discussed by the Magi. Branko Grimes. My friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u178	President, thank you for your word. Mr. Hoys, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to say this first. In 2019, Mr. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, he wasn't Koprivnik. Minister of the Interior Poklukar gave data, this is the Minister, giving official information on how much violence was committed by migrants who were refugees in Slovenia. The data was marginal, negligible. Above all, there are worrying data on how much violence, which is during the covida crisis by citizens and citizens of Slovenia, is a mass murder in Slovenia. That's the problem. I would like to say that today we have been talking about the Law on International Protection, the Law on Foreigners, in short, we are talking about one problem and we are inflating it, which is not a problem at this point or should be addressed. It is no problem at all that I speak because this National Assembly should deal with how to ensure that Slovenian public health can adequately respond to the challenges of covida, reduce the number of deaths. We should discuss why it did not provide homes for the elderly to care for the survival of the elderly if they are sick that they do not die in a mass way. We should deal with the social crisis, the economic crisis, which is coming in the main forms. However, we are dealing with a problem that the data of the European Union and also the media show completely different. And when a colleague of the Social Democrats said earlier that he would shake his hand to propose amendments to the Articles of the Law on International Protection that were before us, I will say that I will firmly raise my hand against such discriminatory, anti-refugee, anti-human policies that are proposed through this law, amendments to the Law on International Protection. I'm sure this case will fall if brought before the Constitutional Court for Constitutional Review. Among other things, because, as the amendments are now proposed, there will be violations not only of the constitution of certain laws in our country but also of the international conventions signed by Slovenia. Today, we would need changes to facilitate the process of investing international protection, which would help refugees to enjoy a decent life. It doesn't matter whether it's a child, a woman or a middle-aged man, as Lady Bah Gibert's colleague said. It's about people, not the animals we put behind walls. Too many people suffer and die on their way to a decent life so that they can respond reputably to one such cowardly and legal proposals. I think we have to open the door and help the children, the women, the elderly, the people of Yemen, who we talk about a little bit, only the media are informing us how people in one, would say, international conspiracy, a war that is not from Yemen, is dying, especially children. And the people of broken Syria, from where, clearly, man flees. Running away and being a fugitive is a human right for me, Mr Grimes. In fact, I'm talking about the right to life. Christian Democrats should know that when they expose the sanctity of life, it is about survival. That's why people escape, and that's why once from Slovenia people fled when this one was threatened, when lives were threatened, their safety, when they were here, was threatened. That's what history tells us. Because that's all they have left, the only escape from war, from violence, from hunger. Because of your political or any personal convictions, or even your death, you run away. And as it was said, Mr Grimes also said, the one who triggered these refugee waves is a criminal. That's right. He's a criminal, and he should be convicted. These are the ones who, on the basis of falsified data, started a war in Iraq and caused mass refugees. Similarly, in Libya, where a state is governed, a country, whatever the repressive regime was in power there — see what happened now. What happened now? I don't want to defend any dictator, by no means, these things need to be removed, dictatorship, but look what a highly civilized developed world has done. Why do people run? It's the ecological devastation. The ozone hole, with which the underdeveloped countries had absolutely nothing to do with it when it was produced, and now the droughts are causing the breakdown of these countries, hunger in them, poverty and so on. That's why people run. And third point, I turn to my colleague Grimes again, you said remigration. Yes, we can start thinking about it, but before that we need to eliminate the causes that have forced people to flee, to simply protect, to preserve their lives, to preserve the dignity of themselves and their families. You have to think about it in this circle. Why does the number, Mr. Hojs, of protection requirements in Slovenia fall? This is what the European Union has been talking about since 2015, and this is probably what the Slovenian Government should know, especially as Minister of the Interior. You have to ask yourself why this number is dropping. As Slovenia is increasingly unfriendly to people, the practically cold state is unpleasant and this policy is repressive. Instead of dealing with the essential problems that present citizens and citizens of Slovenia, as well as refugees, are facing, above all, changes in laws that constitute even greater intolerance and even greater exclusion, persecution of people. Such a policy must absolutely be replaced. I don't know how much longer we'll be waiting for Slovenia to get its Bidden. But look, that's what I'd like to say. If a court in Italy recently found that the return of refugees coming from Bosnia, Croatia via Slovenia to Italy meant that it would be a risk for the applicant to be subjected to inhuman and degrading behaviour in Slovenia, that thinking was justified – Mr Hojs, we should think about this, this should be considered by this State Assembly. What kind of civility and opinion about our country comes from such treatment of refugees in Europe and around the world, about us? And once again, we are not only violating human rights, their dignity and so on, we are in violation of the international conventions that are signed. Slovenia, with one legislation, violence against refugees and living standards in asylum homes, is carrying out virtually one preventive war against refugees. Clearly, the current government's intention is simply to de facto abolish the international protection of refugees and we cannot agree to that. The proposed legislation, which we are talking about today since 9 a.m., is going this way. Colleagues, colleagues, I hope that when we vote on the amendments to this law in the National Assembly, we will have a man before us, and not how someone who has come to our aid is justified in making life miserable and bringing him back to the environment where he and his family are likely to lose his life. This is the main point and I certainly cannot adopt such a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Ciegler, I understand the populism of your party and everything you represent so vehemently, but I don't mind, of course, you're looking for your voters and so on. But let's talk about numbers, but I would still ask that we talk about numbers, one is one, not one three. In your debate, just before the end of three times, you stressed how many requests in Slovenia are falling from year to year. You said that three times. I believe you didn't listen at the beginning of my position, so I'm going to say it again. On average, 330 asylum applications were lodged in Slovenia between 2006 and 2015. This is the average, which means there were 500 in one year, in one 200 and so on. In 2015, 277 asylum applications were submitted, in 2017 – for 2016 I do not have data – a thousand 399 asylum applications were submitted, in 2018 2 000 875 asylum applications were submitted, in 2019 3 000 821 asylum applications were submitted and in last year despite covid, although there was no such pressure, there were still 3 000 548 asylum applications. So now I don't know where you get the information that this is falling from year to year. Apparently, we live, I don't know, one has Mars, one on the Moon. I believe your political agenda is different from ours, and it's perfectly legitimate, but don't cheat with numbers, please. Do not tell the Slovenian public that requests fall year after year, but if the number shown here is significantly higher year after year. That's what I said at the beginning. In 2019, as many as a thousand 98 per cent of more requests were accepted than the 10-year average for the period 2006-2015. So if that average was, like I said, 330 and 2019 3 000 821, that's actually a thousand times more. I'd only ask so much to really talk about these real numbers, then it's different, whether we're helping refugees from Rwanda or not, it's already a matter of other legislation, I think. And that. Of the 11,000 or so 548 who applied for asylum last year, I must say that there were few women and children who were neglected. I don't know if there were 10% of women and children. The way it is, I think, mag. Grims has already said today – who has proved to be more successful in receiving refugees than Slovenia in those years of war in Yugoslavia, when we have actually received virtually only women and children? I think there were 250 or 300,000 of them, and we accepted them without a hitch. But we find it hard to get the folk to be 11,000, 14,000 illegal migrants, of which 3,000 were 500 asylum applications, and half of them were women and children — they were not. There weren't any. Those you said needed help came in, a healthy middle-aged man. I understand that this can be your political agenda, just not that, I would say, to represent under the cover of humanitarianism and what we all stand for, it's concern for the most vulnerable groups, which women are certainly children. By the way, let me say that, not our government, one of the previous ones, has adopted what the existing legislation allows, has decided to relocate – now I don't know exactly, Natasha will help me with how many of these Syrian families were then [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] 67 families were permanently displaced from Turkey or were Syrian families living in Slovenia today — what should I say? - Integrated. I don't even know what religion they are, I don't care, but there was no problem. This government also adopted about four months ago, five months ago on my proposal to help us receive four children from the Greek islands. There is no problem, I think we are all so mature and we want to help the most vulnerable groups, but there is no need, I would say, to slap people that there is a crowd of women and children on the Slovenian-Croatian border that we do not let through. That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Replica, Turtle Brick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Hojs, data show a decline in the number of asylum applications after 2015, only 2019 has slightly increased the number, but again in 2020 there has been a higher decline in the number of applications. It is crucial that the number of requests has decreased for various reasons and does not increase. You said it yourself, 3 000 500 were applications for asylum in 2019 and 87 settled. These are numbers, and these numbers themselves give us the question of what's going on with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you so much for the replica. I think you've got something wrong again. Not you, but listen to me again so we don't get involved without a relationship. [[…]] The information provided by the minister must be standing and official. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, and Nick Prebil will be the last to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you. Of course, the number of asylum applications is increasing, but it's not decreasing, so I don't know where that came from. This debate has reminded me much of one part of the debate about violations of European Union law. You've talked a lot about international conventions and acts, and it's loud and clear that this has to be respected. This is where we agree. The first, which should be respected in this area, is the Dublin Agreement and then all the rest, which is bound to it, either by state or adopted, is binding at European level. For if this were respected, esteemed Mr Cigler, then none of what has happened could ever have happened, none of what we are talking about today. By the way, what's the absurdity of the story? Someone in Europe took the right and suspended directly one part of the current legal order just like that. As a result, there are now negative consequences and mass illegal migration has begun. They were present before, but not in this form, and not in this number at all. As a result, Slovenia has become in difficulty – because international agreements have not been respected because the European Union's legal order has been knowingly violated. Today, those who have violated the legal order of the European Union or, as in your case, those who defend the infringement cry out that the rule of law must be respected. Moreover, in the European Union we are already so far away that those who have acted unlawfully instigated a mass violation of the rules of the European Union are blackmailing other countries, if they are obliged to respect the acquis of the European Union, of course those who do so, otherwise sanctions will be imposed on them. This European Union's legal order is being fabricated, and we are so far away. Who was the only one in Europe who really respected as much as possible in those circumstances, the Dublin Agreement and everything else? The countries of the Multi-Grace Group. But today he's putting pressure on them, and by the way, he's lying about who's even a fugitive. Refugees, those coming from the Middle East, from Africa, are practically without exception illegal migrants and nothing else that drives them like a stream of money. The money given for this by Arab magnates, Arab sheiks, representatives of the speculative capital of Soros and everyone else. And, of course, within the fifth column in Europe, which supports all of this because it sees, and its eyes glow, its new refugees, and its ability to make money. And so that no one can see what they're doing, then they talk hugely about human rights, and I don't know what else they're doing. The illegal entry into the territory of one of the members of the European Union, in our case in particular Slovenia, is not a human right. It's just a crime. Things must finally be put in the right place. This is a violation of European Union law and a violation of the law of the Republic of Slovenia. On that basis, you can't enforce any ratings. Someone just made that up because it fit him, so it wouldn't be visible, because he first triggered a breach of the European order, so that it wouldn't be noticed what he really did. And then you talk about conflict. If I have correctly written down, 69 countries in the world are in conflict. Do you know where the closest conflicts are? In the European Union, and then in France, we can say Sweden. These are the closest constant conflicts, even though they hide from the public. There are no-go zones, there are more than 50 in Sweden, there are fewer in France, but they are much larger than those in Sweden. The army doesn't hope to go there, not even with the police, not with the armored men anymore. It's so far gone. When in France they went to one of the suburbs, large, by the way, like Slovenia, police officers with armoured officers, police officers, they were shot at with heavy-caliber anti-arms. And then they didn't go anymore. Then they talked about whether they'd send the right army, and they'd rather just walk away from it to act like everything was all right. It's not okay! But do you know who's triggering these conflicts? Radical Islam. The illegal migrants, who then declared themselves poor refugees and were well organized, also joined into various criminal groups in the vast majority, and armed themselves, made their own no-go zones nicely and today they are triggering these conflicts outwards. Exactly as opposed to what you just said here. Besides, it's a lot of gear. But who's breaking down European streets or, if you want, now that you've tried so hard to elect Bidn? Who broke it? The combination of Antife, their anti-White racist derivative BLM, and then radical Islam in cooperation. Who broke Hamburg? It's nothing new. That was two or three years ago. It was so that I showed the pictures that I could go up there and look for them, that on one of the other TVs, they said that I was showing pictures from Syria. That was Hamburg! The wild Antifa, left-wings in cooperation with extreme Islam, hand-to-hand squawking "allahu akbar" were smashing, destroying small businesses, jeopardizing people's lives, jeopardizing human security. And you will talk about peace and human rights? Who's Biden? Why was Biden now muddy? He wasn't elected. He was cheated. Yeah, to be a war. Because Trump was the only one who didn't start a war. Do you know what that means? All those Camarillas that serve with illegal migration – because it is a monstrously large business, with human lives, with human future, monstrous business, repulsive – needed one excuse, no more great war, it will have to be aroused in order to restart the mechanism. Where are these people going? You think they're going to America? No, they will go to Europe because Europe is close. And some of the eyes are glowing, earning again, and they're gonna be flinging again about the poor refugees, and they're doing what they do in the end, which leads to war. By the way, you mentioned Libya. Do you know who started the war in Libya? It's not NATO or America, as some of you have said, and there's a nice Italy, and France was the first to bomb all week, and then it just developed into a conflict. And today those who have triggered this – then, of course, they now have their advocates in Brussels – say, now let this be solidarity. What kind of solidarity? What you've cooked, eat. This is what we are facing now, and therefore I say that this logic is totally insurmountable, whereby European solidarity towards those who have caused some conflict is unnecessary, stupid. On the other hand, those who then took even this right to suspend just one part of the European Union's legal order now require Slovenia, and now you be solidarity and take over one part of the burden that we have made. Yes, of course! Even so, even in the legislation they have proposed, even in this last migration pact, sanctions are in place if you do not agree to this blackmail, and what sanctions! It's so far away. That is why I said that the only real, genuine European solidarity in remigration would be when these people need to be returned to where they came from because they do not have the right to asylum. Of course, since they are mass abuse, they must be returned. We're in a pretty bad situation there because you don't have leverage to force the mother country to take you back, and it's not in her interest and they won't take it back. Do you even know that some countries, including those most currently applying for asylum in Slovenia, have simply emptied prisons and told people whether you will continue in prison or go along with them to Europe? And in this way, they were able to get rid of the most problematic part of their population. In Europe, you find again and again the fifth column that begins, her, come, you poor refugees. Then we wonder why criminal associations are organized, why then everything that endangers the environment is organized. Yes, because things need to be looked at and named with the right name. But that's what this responsibility needs to be gathered into. It was also said that some were persecuted for their faith. Persecution for faith. You know, the only ones that are systematically, systematically persecuted, ashamed and exterminated today in the world are Christians. The only one. And in this persecution, Christians are the most active radical Muslims. That is why I said earlier that one problem, which is unfortunately inseparably linked to these illegal migrations, is also the radical Islamisation of the European Union and Europe in general. This has nothing to do with race — because then it starts to crack, but racists don't know what it is. This has nothing to do with race. The one who says that has no idea of the terms or is knowingly deceiving. Even if someone is here to take hold of this ideology, to radicalize it, it's the same problem as those who are coming. This has nothing to do with race, but the problem is how to get rid of it. For deradicalization, which is so much talked about, is virtually always unsuccessful. That's not what they're telling you. How many cases have been directly involved in these worst terrorist acts that we have witnessed in recent years on European soils by people who have been officially radicalised! Either they did them right or they were directly involved because deradicalisation in this ideology is virtually unsuccessful. And this is the problem that we are facing, and I have therefore warned that if it overwhelms the European Union, there will be no going back. Unfortunately, one part of the European Union is already on a substantial part of this path to this end. Before that we are not only warned by people within the European Union, you will not believe that they are warning us even where these people come from. When the Prime Minister of Great Britain visited Lebanon as a member of the European Union, they also spoke about migrants. Look, two years ago, I think it was about. They also talked about illegal migrants who are mass leaving for Europe. And there the Lebanese warned Europeans, specifically in the case of the Prime Minister of Great Britain, that at least 2% of those going on the road have been proven radicalised and even associated with ISIS or Al-Qaida. And they said, you don't know what that means. Because these radicalized, then connected, push everyone else and cause radicalization, because this is how people adapt. Because you're the first to strike, their own people, and then it starts spreading like cancer out and has all those bad consequences that shouldn't have. Don't think Slovenia is safe from this. If anyone thinks that, remember, we've already become exporters of radical Islam. In Frankfurt, he was arrested for the last time -- that's all we've learned -- we don't know today with his name and name, at least I don't know -- someone they wrote about who is a citizen of Slovenia. Although I believe that it was not Gorenjec Jože from Brezij, not Dolenjec Janez from Šentjernej, but he was a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. All of Europe has written about this because it threatened to blow up at the airport with terrorism and has created an extremely big problem. And the problem, once again, is that radicalisation is, as a rule, always a failure. It's like Murphy's marriage — when the military trumpet blows, it's all in the trumpet. That's kind of how it works. Besides, you need to know that radical Islam is ghettoizing itself. That's why there's been all those crimes that haven't been talked about lately, and everything's hidden under this big story about the crown, but it's happening. How's it going? Crimes over children, and then over girls over young people in Germany and then in the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and so on, I am not talking about France at all. Why? Radical Islam cannot bear to be linked to anyone outside a region of radical Islam that is not recognised by parents as a sufficiently radical Islamist. And if a child does that, then it follows a crime of honor, as it's called, and then you read how they literally tied his daughter to an electric line and electrocuted her, and all the other things I don't say, because they're even worse than what I just said. But that's not what we're talking about right now. Nobody cares about anyone else with a knife or anything anymore because they don't want to hear it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I say once again what I have said a hundred times: we will get rid of the crowns, believe me, soon, one way or another, but radical Islam, if it floods Europe, but we will never get rid of it again. Civilisation will be gone, it won't be because it can't be. Anyone who really knows Sharia law knows that it is completely incompatible with the modern concept of human rights — just what you have to say so much about. There's a woman, a child, that means nothing, zero. A woman is worth a quarter of a man. Not to talk about everything else. That is, of course, why it is necessary to be aware of this when deciding on these matters and to take this into account. The law before us is a step in the right direction, there is no doubt about it. However, it still ensures all that treatment, individual treatment and everything else, which of course lays down European law. Anyone who claims that this law is not in line with European law is not aware of European law. I even argue quite the opposite – that there is still room for manoeuvre within European law and within the legal practice of European countries, which would be valid to imitate and tighten many of the provisions that are now in this law. If, of course, consensus can be reached for this, which would be good. Why? Since all the neighbouring countries, all the major target countries of the European Union, have a look, they have already done so. This means that Slovenia has somehow become a promised country and unfortunately also a target country. And that's happening more and more. Of course, the problem is, then, who is really asking us for asylum — and Morocco is Algeria. Do you know that after some of the research they did — not with us — I think she was in Sweden, if I am not mistaken, or somewhere in the north, I can find — the most problematic of the Moroccans, of those who come, beside the Eritreans. Of course, problematic after what happens once you let them down. If anyone thinks that Slovenians and Slovenians do not deserve to live safely, then he no longer understands the law or what human ethics and morality are. No foreigner can have an advantage over his own citizen. And that's why these dilemmas really work. This is where one group of people who are really purely ordinary economic migrants began to be credited for what they are doing, the qualities they do not have – that they are some poor refugees and that, I don't know, they are now being saved. In doing so, of course, it is inadvertently silent that these people go through safe countries, many even coming from proven safe countries. However, what goes on and out of this works is the whole project, where everyone serves. Those who accept them, serve NGOs who demand their legal aid and do not know what, the effort for humanism, the money of taxpayers, then those who transport them, serve those who accept them if they stop somewhere, serve those who reside in them, which are paid again by the taxpayers, of course, serve the courts that are overworked. And this is one of the reasons why the courts are too busy – because of all these procedures in the European Union, I now speak as a whole. Then those who advise them serve lawyers who are again paid by the State for legal aid and again serve those NGOs who are responsible for delaying proceedings. In short, in the end, everyone has a profit, all of which is paid by taxpayers. That's what you forget. Those people who are really the foundation of a modern state, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, taxpayers, citizens, citizens. Those who should be provided with a maximum competitive environment by the State, those who would have the right to live peacefully with their families and enjoy the well-being of what they create, and those who pay for it in the end. And that's fair? Please! It's not only not fair, it's turned to the end. Then where does that lead? It's a great Swedish case. From Sweden, entrepreneurs, those with only opportunity, are mass evicted. But it's absurd that many of them are also moving to Poland if you don't know it. Why? Because they live safe there. And why do they live safely in Poland? Because there are no illegal migrations in the field of radical Islam, because that is the problem. So don't tell me about the fugitives. Poland has accepted the most refugees in the European Union, do you know that? But these were the real refugees, the ones who needed protection from the war that the pro-Russian soldiers started inside Ukraine. A million and a half of these refugees have been admitted to Poland and have been well integrated there because it is a similar cultural environment and a similar starting point when it comes to values, for everything else. And of course, these were mostly real refugees, they weren't the imaginary refugees we're talking about right now. For this reason, I have pointed out that in these cases, which are the subject of today's debate, this is the area of radical Islam, the only real solution and the only real European solidarity is the remigration, the return of illegal migrants to where they came from. When Europe is at this point that the whole European Union will also help Slovenia and all the other countries in its area in the process of remigration, in returning illegal migrants who are not entitled to asylum, then we will be able to speak again about European legal order and European solidarity. Until then, it's just a fiction, I'm sorry. It's over. Before it was said, when we vote, we will have in mind, in front of the man. I absolutely agree and guarantee that when I vote, I will have in front of a person, a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, a woman, a child who deserves to live in prosperity, who deserve to live in peace, who deserve to live safely. Our first and fundamental task is to ensure this. And remember, no right of any foreigner can be over the rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The final debater is Mr Nik Prebil. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good evening again, everyone! First of all, it may be possible for the Minister to answer or clarify certain facts about the work in which, at the beginning of the day of the end of the position, the Minister was responsible, namely those relating to juvenile applicants for international protection. In the position of the Group of Members, I made it clear: “There is a solution to the law that, in the event of doubt on the age of a minor, an executive opinion is given before the application for international protection. The law provides for both additional procedural guarantees and adapted reception conditions for unaccompanied minors. In terms of the safety of other minors in an asylum home and in terms of safety, accommodation and management procedures, this is appropriate. However, you have introduced a provision which states that a minor in a personal interview with an official will not be allowed to have an escort.” That was it. And then I made an example. Minister, you said it doesn't hold that any child would be able to have parents with him. But there are two very different things here. For I spoke of a minor without an escort, that is, one who comes without his parents, whether he doesn't have them or he's lost in the middle. Article 14 of the Act makes it clear that “with the amendment of paragraph 2 of Article 37”, “in paragraph 4 the possibility that a person selected by the applicant may be present at the request of a personal interview”. I conclude from this that a minor who is without parents or relatives, according to your new opinion, will not be allowed to choose someone who will be present for the interview when deciding whether or not to be granted international protection. And it can also be a child, for someone who's been traumatized on this path that he came from, and in our opinion it's inappropriate and unacceptable for children to defend themselves, so to speak, to get international protection, because even a child's life can be threatened at this level without any escort. Of course, if that's what they want. But all right, let's move on. It is true that we are already repeating ourselves more or less today, not least the Foreigners Act, which we have considered as the first, and the International Protection Act, are being linked. This is a topic that is extremely broad, which we have been dealing with for a number of years, literally, but it is important to mention how this procedure for obtaining international protection is proceeding. Any foreigner entering our country must express his intention to submit an application for international protection. The law clearly provides that a foreigner must not be removed from the country from the submission of the intention to apply for international protection. This is also a respect for the legislation that my colleague was talking about earlier. In the event of illegal entry, the offence of illegal crossing of the state border shall therefore be terminated until the completion of the procedure for international protection. So, by law, the national law we have adopted in our country clearly shows that international protection is, if we say so, a violation of the illegal crossing of the state border. Well, of course, the procedure goes forward where judicial protection is provided, where it is decided whether such international protection is also granted or not. When police officers catch a foreigner, they treat him in accordance with the Foreigners Act, I have made that clear before. Well, when someone makes an intention, just the intention to give international protection, the authorities should immediately treat it in accordance with the International Protection Act. Here, at least after what we hear in the media, and after what the experts on immigrants and foreigners have also said, we hear that the Ministry of the Interior is already being treated by the wrong law under the Aliens Act on an unjustified basis and without the legal basis of those who express the intention of international protection, and that is to say, in order to prevent them from accessing legal advice in order to obtain a quality edition. I just want to know, Minister, what's on it. I'm not going to argue with you, and I'm not going to tell you anything, but I want information. Yes, Comrade Grims, I fully agree with you, respect for the rule of law of Slovenia and the European Union is paramount, but it would be nice if the authorities in our country started to respect it, and we also see that there are many who do not respect it in your government, unfortunately. He also spoke earlier in that position of the Group of Members to legalise certain things in return with the new Pact on Migration and Asylum. I could say the same about this work, as it is now apparent that the police are already using procedures that are not legalised – precisely this amendment of the Law on International Protection would allow such procedures to be legalised at the request of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' internal instructions. And yes, it's money, it's money, it's money, but it's not money from these illegal migrants, it's money from organizations that smuggle and exploit these migrants. I agree, yes, it's a crime and it's up to you to punish him. I also agree that every intrusion must be processed, as the colleague has said, every violence, every abuse of our legal order must be sanctioned, and that is quite clear. But if that doesn't happen, I think it's someone else's fault. There are relatively few approved applications for international protection. That's what we heard today. There are many procedures, but according to the majority of illegal migrants, Slovenia is also leaving, many before the end of the procedure. My colleague Grimes also said that the European Union would do nothing to make it all unrelated. I don't know, because the government can decide, but I don't know, let's get out of the EU if it's so bad if this EU doesn't do anything and it's all without a connection. When we talk about certain articles – which we think are far from being wrong, no one has ever said that, but about the articles – which show some questionable issues and some contentious provisions, when we also talk about violations of public order and peace, I agree that some sanctions need to be imposed, and clear rules are also needed. Our observation was that you are now adding to the violation of public order and peace as indifference, and this is not going together. It does not go along with any logical aspect, nor does it go along with any legal aspect. As far as I know, many, including the Justice Department, have pointed to this. As for Croatia, the distinguished minister, it seems to me that for the first time today, although you have said that you have already spoken publicly, or somehow indicated that Croatia is poorly fulfilling its obligations. This is what I keep saying and which is why I was also critical when the past European Commission, where Croatia had good diplomatic ties, came to a positive conclusion that Croatia is entering the internal Schengen system. Although I am of the opinion that this will probably not happen very soon, but if Croatia had done its obligations and the things it promised to do as it was supposed to do, it would probably not have had a large number of irregular migrations through Croatia to Slovenia. I therefore also agree that it is necessary to define the border of the European Union, which I, the Minister, have already said on the Committee on Home Affairs, is a clear definition of what the external Schengen border is and what the external border of the European Union is. Here is also the key role of Frontex, which must work better at the external border of the European Union and act there when necessary. Now maybe it's just a conclusion. I must respond to the previous debate by colleague Anja Bah Žibert, although I would not like to trigger some additional responses and controversy now. However, the colleague has disputed the position of the LMŠ party and certain persons who cannot defend themselves here, which is somehow a direct attack on our political group. In LMŠ there is always security on the one hand and solidarity on the other. Therefore, certainly, yes, Slovenian citizens must be safe and our country is first. These two are by no means excluded, but complemented. In our party, unlike your SDS party, there is no single mind and members certainly have a different position on some issues, but we talk, we cooperate and we also agree. In my opinion, this is the foundation of democracy. People learn all the time over the years, in principle over the years we also get some new experiences, additional information and also knowledge, and finally attitudes over the years can change. I think it's just a compliment now. However, it seems that people or members of your party have recognized and abandoned some wrong thinking. That's what happens when people think with their heads, I'm really sorry. So much for today. Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. First, I'll give the replica to my colleague Grimes, the minister, and then you'll finish. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you. I do not know how you, my dear fellow, understood this when I warned that it would be virtually impossible to reach consensus on the fundamental issues of migration, while in Brussels those who are in the mass form of these illegal migrations that we are facing today have actually caused. Of course, the existence of the European Union is in the Slovenian interest, Slovenia is export oriented, it is linked to these countries. But not at any cost. But this means, of course, that we must strive to bring the European institutions to the best possible extent in such a form and in such a way as to ensure that the European acquis is respected, and consistently so. For if I oppose anything to the end, and without exception, I do not care if it is Mrs Merkel or anyone else, it is that someone within the European Union can, in one decisive function, allow themselves. For the suspension of the law, the work of the law of the European Union, in particular the Dublin Agreement, is a legal will that is unacceptable. And that just strengthens those forces that tear the European Union apart. Even more, then, all of this is to be obscured and disguised by reimposing solutions that would legalize or at least partially relieve those who have allowed themselves to do something wrong. And then the quotas are imposed and everything else, which unfortunately we also have to talk about today. This also strengthens those forces that are tearing the European Union apart, so everything must be done to set things up there in the centre, to introduce such a decision-making path, to make it impossible to do something like this, and on the other hand to recognise that individuality, that subjectivity to all those who make up the European Union, that we then have a real opportunity to decide for ourselves and that, in particular, the equipment itself is on our own. We can't rely on anyone in this story, we can only rely on ourselves and, of course, we can do everything we can to get the European Union in a different direction sooner or later, in a way that will allow everyone security, prosperity and development in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We are now going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which Minister Aleš Hojs will be given the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will be brief because we have been really long today, but I think it is appropriate to try to answer this question to Mr Prebil in these few minutes, because it seems to me that, in view of their debate, there may be prospects that we may be able to contribute some voice to this law as well. Mr. Prebil, you were talking about illegal police procedures. First of all, I need to say that I have no information to get the police to do any illegal procedure, even more than once. You actually complimented the police. I must say, from the moment someone says asylum, the police have been treating this man since then under the International Protection Act. There is no way to claim that anyone would be overlooked or treated under the Aliens Act if he said he wanted asylum. This goes automatically, and this is where the police need to be trusted, and I trust her. As for escorts or children who come here without an escort, you have read this part of the draft law or bill correctly, but see, this is exactly what we wanted to avoid. Someone who's not here with a parent who doesn't have a parent who comes alone gets it automatically from our country's legal representative. So it's not like he's going to pick someone who used to, like, when he brought him here, he's a real smuggler, he said when you get there, and you're going to say that I'm your agent and I'm going to sit next to him and I'm going to tell you what you're going to say. No, no, no. It is precisely for the protection of children that this child receives a legal representative, which is awarded to him by CSD, i.e. Slovenian CSD. This is said to be where we have qualified people, certified people, competent people, and nothing is left to chance. Far from being alone or without representation, this minor has it, on our part. Finally, Croatia. Perhaps for the first time, I have made this more clear here in Parliament, and I say this every time in a European forum or in a bilateral, which is the last thing I've said to the Croatian Interior Minister, but it doesn't make sense here that we're hiding anything or anything like that. Of course, it is necessary to defend their position or what they say publicly. Neither do these migrants fall from the sky, come from Bosnia or Serbia. And the Croats have said many times: "If we had information that the main migration flow is across Albania or across Montenegro, that is, a non-European country, then we could say, okay, Europe has nothing to do with it." But if the main migration flows are in Bosnia or Serbia today, those coming from either Greece or Bulgaria to Serbia or Romania there, they rightly say: "Look, we have to protect the matter at the external border. Not only are we angry because we do not do all things well, but if the Greeks were doing well, the Bulgarians and so on would not be here at all." And they're kind of right. As far as Frontex is concerned, I will be very happy to know that you are also in these parliamentary committees or assemblies if you will help. In fact, why? The problem is Frontex can't go anywhere unless the state agrees. I've said it many times before, and let's put Frontex in Croatia, and that would be a very good solution for me. I'll take them to our southern border right away, no problem, Frontex. But Croats aren't up for it. However, Croats always claim that they control migration themselves, and unfortunately the issue is that Frontex does not have a mandate where a forum in Europe would say, this formation, Frontex, goes to the border with Bosnia in Croatia. Unlike the Greeks, who are very pleased with Frontex and who have gladly accepted it, and probably some other country, the Croats are now in a different position. However, it is probably difficult to negotiate very quickly that Frontex's mandates can be granted without the consent of the Member State to which Frontex is intended or to travel. So it is likely that your help here in terms of this on the European parquet or support that Frontex may once have a different mandate will be very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much. There's no replica, but we'll share time if you want. [[Yeah.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing there's still interest. Nick Prebil's gonna get the word, five minutes. Minister, I'm just asking if you're going to want to say anything. [[Yeah.]] Okay, I need to know. Okay. Nick Prebil, five minutes, and then he gets the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. Only one short response, because the replica wasn't possible. Minister, wait a second. This is where I wrote my case. [[…]] When we talk about minors, about what you have just said about this article – this does not make it as clear in the law as you have just said, so I say that certain things are questionable, and that is exactly the kind of debate that needs to be clarified. But I'm afraid you may have misunderstood me when I was talking about the so-called illegal police procedures. I have made it clear that these are media statements and that these are things we have been listening to lately, not least that I think it was also in the Youth article today, that the Bosnian police report that these are the procedures of the Slovenian police. I – and I say this more than once – trust the police, and that's the way it is, most citizens should do it. We do know, however, that the police are not least directed and led by the Director-General of the Police and in some ways by you, but also, of course, depends on every political affinity. We'll look into these things and then we'll see how and where things stand. Let me once again say that, given the topic that is hot, it seems that we have yet to have a fairly correct discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? [[Yeah.]] Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Only that this is related to the legitimate representatives in Article 2, not in what you have read. We will explain exactly what article it is in, and I think it will then be clear that the matter is also clearly written in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-01-26-SDZ8-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a good trip home!
