ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, except for the vote at point 19, Janja Sluga from 15:00 on, Gregor Židan, Franc Jurša, Branko Simonovic from 11.30 to 18:00, mag. Dušan Verbič and Alexander Reberšek until 3 p.m. By the time limit set by the College under the third paragraph of Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the members of the Iva Dimic and Magi had announced, for today, their participation in a meeting outside the Assembly. Mr Bojana Muršič and Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti. We continue with the debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Predrag Baković was announced, but when we interrupted the meeting last night, as agreed, at 10 p.m., she wanted to speak with the representative of the proposaler, Violet Tomić. So I'm asking her if she wants a word, if we're moving on. The representative of the proposaler Violet Tomić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Today we continue with the interpretation of Minister Simoniti and may I remind you a little of the summaries of yesterday's long debate. To the minister we have seen violations of laws, proven violations of laws, non-compliance with commitments, influence on the media, destruction of Slovenian film and unacceptable treatment of self-employed people who are the most creative part of culture. It is only because of the relationship of Minister Simoniti that we should support this interpretation, because the minister cannot be someone who hates culture and culture, and his hateful relationship is manifest all the time. Let me remind you that he said very unacceptable words: “Go to Bucharest, to betrothed Romania.” That's not what the Minister of Culture says. He said that “the journalists know nothing, but you need to know something about the work of making cars”. This is not said by the minister responsible for the media. When I asked him what plans the cultural ministry had in the Presidency of the European Union, he said that I was not attractive to him and that he would not answer me. This is a relationship with the National Assembly, a respected minister. In the media, too, your statements have already been drawn – the uncultured thoughts of the cultural minister. And let me read them to you, colleagues and colleagues, so you can make up your mind about this interpretation. Someone was talking about a vision. “Visions have only those who lead things to killing, I have no visions, I have concepts, plans and views. I did everything myself. I know a lot of things you don't know about, and I'd survive everywhere. You, if you weren't politicians, you wouldn't have survived here. You'd never survive because you don't know anything. Nothing, sir. In Trieste, the Chinese would not trust you to sell." Very funny, Minister. This was intended for Mr German, the proposer. “Thousands of people were fired yesterday in Ormož. Are you going to protest anything, left-wing?Oh, my God! Nothing! You'll bring two banners. Do something! And don't protest, but offer something. You can't offer, that's your problem. List five top artists from what you think; not from what I know you will tell if they are supremely and globally known. This is the last time I've had a problem with a lady here who's been talking nonsense, which is probably me who's been working in culture since 1980 professionally. Please list one example of the media that's supposed to lose something based on our relationship. But it is true that no one buys these media anymore because no one reads them because they are not worth reading. But this is not an attack, this is a finding.” Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's interpolation is not just an interpretation of the responsibility of a minister from another political option. Today we are talking about the future of Slovenia. We've turned ourselves in economically. If we voluntarily lose our culture, we're gone. At the 30th anniversary of the independent state, we'll be gone. This reminds me of the text of a play where I played my mother, who said: “I gave you life, I gave you life, I could take it.” Janez Janša imagines that Slovenia has inhaled life and that he can take it away from her by his will. Colleagues and colleagues, we can't let them do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Vasko Simoniti has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	Mrs. Ambassador has taken her things and she's had a bit of an event. I never said you weren't nice to me, because, ma'am, I don't have any special feelings for you. But I must say that I feel very uncomfortable with you, and I said that – I feel very uncomfortable with you. The other thing you're saying is that I hate culture. That's what people say. People whose minds are so far out of bounds. That's not who I am. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait! I never said that I hated any culture, I didn't even show it. It's your worn-out floscule that you keep repeating. I myself get a lot of positive responses from culturers and intellectuals and everyone knows that I work for the welfare of Slovenian culture. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Violet Tomić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	The Slovenian Film Centre wrote a letter of protest at the reblocking of the Slovenian film, the respected minister, and you do well and love them. You've completely destroyed the Slovenian film. Slovenian writers, the Society of Pen, which has participated intensively in the exercise of independence, will not participate in the anniversary of independence, because they call on Parliament – and you hear me well what I say – “let us stop cooperation with the government and unlock the circle of fear and blackmail, which is increasingly, like Slovenian society, restricts and destroys.” Let me say again, the Association of Slovenian Writers has made a significant contribution to the independence and foundation for the creation of the Slovenian state and have been involved in the preparations for the marking of the anniversary, which will no longer be attended. Let the writers, the culturers, the filmmakers, the creators tell you something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	The lady started answering the replicas to something else. She said that I said that she was unsympathetic; I said that she made me feel very uncomfortable. Regarding the writers, what she said, it would be good to say, however, that a considerable number of people have emerged from the Slovenian Writers' Association in the last two years or a year. Look at the names and compare them, same as the Penn Society. Why did they get out?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the drafters, Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	It makes no sense, you know, to have a dialogue with you; and who feels uncomfortable with whom. It is Parliament that is asking you questions to which you are obliged to answer, Minister. I am chairing the Committee on Culture, and for the time being, if you feel uncomfortable about it or not, it doesn't matter. You're establishing a parallel country, and that's the problem. You have the Society of Journalists, which is parallel, you also have your Pen. There are people out there, of course, who are just your prowess. And I will quote again what the writers said: “It’s not just about running the country, but it’s about locking it in a cage of one mind. He became the only one telling the truth about the state of the country in all areas. In doing so, he has undermined the foundations of democracy towards freedom of speech and the right of citizens to real information." I'm talking about your boss Janez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Get Gregor Perich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, good morning to all! Since we ended our first part of the session last night at a lot of pressure, today we continue, and it seems to me that the matter is still the same, that nothing has changed in the course of the night. Yesterday almost everything was said about the readings in the interpretation, by the minister things were explained, some perhaps fairly convincing, some slightly less. But I would say that I thought you, the minister, had an interesting reaction, which at times indicated that you were a little angry, a little offended, a little apathetic, a little ironic. Why do I think that? Because it comes from your writing and betting on us candidates with different expressions, such as the backdoor party, the descendants of criminals, I think, and so on. Of course, the question arises as to who you were angry or offended at those moments. The answer, of course, is to proposers and thus the opposition. The next question is why. Because, according to you, we have written, unjustly and unwarrantedly or out of spite, an interpretation on your unworthy level of use of the Slovenian language, and in it we have cited untrue and misleading and unwarranted facts. Next. You are probably a little angry and resentful of all those who think otherwise, who are critical of your work, who are critical to the work of the whole government, perhaps even those who are responsible for the measures that are taking place – and of course, the epidemic itself plays a key role here – because of the actions or omissions of the ministry and the government and they have been wronged and are in some serious trouble or crisis. But you are not angry with those who say that you are doing well, that everything is okay, and that nothing needs to be fixed and improved. If we somehow conclude on the basis of these statements that I have made, all those who think the government is not doing well, that, Minister, you are not doing well, which are critical of some things, and those who think that they have been wronged, all those who are somehow disturbed, we are backwards, we are all what you have written. Therefore, we should be at least quiet if we cannot already praise the work of the government and the ministry itself. Much has been said in this interpretation, a lot of answers have been given, as I said at the beginning. However, I must say that it was somehow the most impressive thing for me — I believe that even for a little professional reasons — to discuss with my colleague Tina Heferle, who has rightly highlighted the decision that was issued, which she said was not a decision, but it was an act: but I will use the word decision because we know exactly what she is talking about. What I am about to say now is based on some of my assumptions, which are based on some of your statements made during yesterday's session, but also on the usual experience that any person can have. On the one hand, we have a man who is known to the media, but he's still a natural person, and at some point, let's leave it, whether it's right or wrong, whether he's done a moral good act or not, on purpose I won't call him whether he's committed an illegal act, it doesn't matter now. The point is that at some point he became a disruptive element. And on the other hand, we have a ministry with all of our jobs, with all our positions and, of course, a minister who has found that this is a disrupting element. What happens next? At some point, of course, there is a decision to check whether this person actually meets certain conditions for certain rights and is instructed to write a decision. Minister, you said you weren't a lawyer yesterday. Yes, of course you are not a lawyer and you do not know these legal rules to be precise, you certainly have a legal service preparing such decisions. And if a lawyer is instructed to make such a decision, it is likely that one who is already in the first year of college in the field of justice can no longer drink water. But you're still gonna have to do it. What's the problem? The problem is that this person is probably aware that the matter will not go through, but he is preparing. Why? Because he expects another decision to fall on which his name and surname will fall if he does not. This can be very problematic and very worrying. And the ministry as such is actually a service that regulates certain rights and some relations between people, and of course also writes legal acts. However, it is by no means a criminal authority, except where within its own ministry there is also a criminal body which identifies certain offences for which the penalty is prescribed. I cannot avoid that this decision, which has been issued, is about trying to punish or disciplining someone who is a disruptive element. And if that happens, of course, it's a big problem. You know, interesting, not interesting, I'll say, a little frightening is your response to Mrs Hefferle's obvious answer to this illegal decision. I'm gonna take it, but I don't think I'm gonna miss much. You explained that this is actually a normal part of the functioning of a public administration or ministry and that you can in fact issue a decision that you think is right and then, of course, the one who was either disadvantaged or privileged by this decision is looking for rights then at another legal instance. In fact, these proceedings are brought before a court or before a number of authorities, where it is determined whether the Ministry has the right or does it have the right person. I just can't agree with that. We can't regulate things in a way that we try to discipline someone because they're a disruptive element for us. If someone does not fulfil the conditions for a right, it should have been established long ago and the decision is issued. But not when someone becomes a disruptive element, because even though everything would be fine, the matter may become problematic, just because of the event. [[Incomprehensible]] I hope that we both agree here and that we can say that this decision was issued on the basis of a reaction or on the basis of the action carried out by that person. And as I have already said, the Ministry is not the one that punishes, we have bodies that issue certain acts called judgments; and this ministry is certainly not. As I said, it may be within the criminal authority, but it must have a violation and also a prescribed sentence. I also know one decision called judgment, and it said it — in an unknown place at an unknown time. And then what happened? Then the candles were lit, and then the screams were made — the vindictives. And here I'm wondering if we can pull any parallels with that. At some point, we are problematic about such a decision that was issued, and at another point, we say that it is a normal procedure for which someone has legal remedies at his disposal, and then it will be seen, but we estimate that it is right. If we work this way, I believe the situation will not be better, but worse. And in this way, the public gets upset, the professional public gets upset, and things get even more problematic. In this light and in this context, we are continuing and only stepping up the wording, which is no longer based on arguments, but on some of the emotions that I was talking about at the beginning of the topic; and clearly then things are escalating. And all the events at this session, including your answers and reactions, have actually convinced me that this interpretation is necessary and necessary. And that it is not unfounded or because we are greedy of the opposition and that we do not do anything but healthy and let the government do nothing. I believe if things turned out to be at least the same if not worse. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	Thank you very much. That's it. I already told you everything about this decision yesterday. I know it's gonna happen five more times today, but I won't. The gentleman just said he felt I was angry. I'm not offended at all, not angry at all. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	Replica, yes. It'll be very short. I'm glad I'm wrong, and that's how it is, even though your statements have been made, with those bets with those and other adjectives that don't seem right. You've given me the feeling that you're angry or insulted, which is why I've made that statement. But if that's possible as a result, I don't know, of your daily dialogue, but then again, it might be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Sir, you're allowed to say everything here and it's right to talk about your feelings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	I do not agree that everything is allowed to be said. I don't think so. We should keep some level on one side and on the other, which I have discussed recently. Yes, it's a replica because I wasn't quite clear on what I was going to say with the gentleman's resentment and anger. And that's why we're discussing it. I think we still have to keep some level and we can't talk about everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word is Gregor Perich. Let's get Gobbler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all, respectable colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to all these debates, especially this debate on interpolation, I think we are giving a lot of fuel, that this debate is not exactly what we would like, especially when we are talking about culture. And I believe that there are many of you here who have worked very closely in the field of culture. And I'd like a lot more positive messages here, some conversation, some dialogue, all of that. Here I do not think it is on some appropriate level that we can improve a lot in this respect and that everyone could do better in this regard. Because if we look for statements, one way or another, I think we'll find them on all sides a lot that we can't be proud of, either what's going on in here, or what's going on outside the National Assembly. And I have to say that, speaking of culture, I have seen many things in the last period myself that are not connected to this or that minister, to this or that government, but unfortunately they do not open up as problems and are not being solved in particular. It seems to me that there is no appropriate political will or, if we want, it may be appropriate for someone who does not have something better arranged than it could have been. Even though the international institutions remind us that we need to do something, we need to work things out. If I take as an example the media, a media scene in Slovenia, who knows it a little better, then it will quickly be possible to conclude that we are mainly lacking plurality in this sense. As it is said, international institutions have been warning us for years that there are still a lot of reserves here, that the ownership structures of individual media are also unclear. There are also many things that could be highlighted in this area. Why am I talking about the media? Because, in my view, the media are an extremely important mechanism within a democratically regulated republic, as we say quite often, the fourth branch of power. And I think that, like all the other three branches of government under some democratic control, there must also be a fourth branch of power under some democratic control. There's a lot of spares here. And I would like in particular to take a step forward in this area, and we have not been able to make it in the past. The question is whether we can make it in such a heated political situation now because there will be another kind of politicisation. This is what seems important for us as a country to take these issues seriously, because otherwise many parts of Slovenian society are also dissatisfied with individual services. In the final phase, also with RTV, some people do not hear what they hear or are summarised in the appropriate way. Let us leave what is our political provenance, where we belong ideologically, but we must be aware that we are different in Slovenia. In this sense, this diversity must also be included somehow, because if we do not include it, it generates tension. And we have seen in the past, in history, where tension and dissatisfaction take you, so it seems important to me that we are much more inclusive here, and especially that we are patient with each other. If anything, as a liberal, I wish that some hard conservative could sit at the same table and some hard leftist to face their opinions in some respectable, dignified way to find out what they can participate in and what things they will never agree on; but that they are still aware that they are part of the same political community. I think that we are losing this very much in recent times, so I would like more balance in this regard and in particular more respect. As we say, many of you are much more involved in the field of culture. What I'd like to say or what I'd like to find out is that the reports that fly to the minister don't even go as far as how much funding is available for culture. I'm talking about financial terms. At least the explanations went in this direction that during this period, which is difficult for many people, and I believe that for culture and culture even more, the country has gone towards providing additional funds from the budget, by means of European funds, individual investments for which we have waited years and years for something to move. But this is obviously not enough to be satisfied; or part of the culture that I understand is dissatisfied. I also hope to say that part of the culturers was already dissatisfied at the start, because he probably disagrees with Mr Simoniti in purely basic terms with the world that there is some ideological dissipation. And I don't know what Dr. Simonita could do to get caught here and get along, hug if you want. That part's clear to me. But, as I said myself, I would like a lot more patience in our society. I will say from my own experience, when this government came into existence, I saw that this patience would not be at the start, because it had not yet come into existence, but there had already been protests. Even if we are talking about individuals who had an important role to play in these protests, the media also attacked at the end of the stage. I think we've had different vats for different people in a number of excesses. These messages we give are simply not good, generate new and new tensions, dissatisfactions; and this is reflected here too. I don't know when we'll know how to get past all this stuff. But I believe it won't be easy if we don't have some real will. Let me finish. I won't support interpretations like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Dr. Runch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Yeah, I'm gonna replicate my buddy Perich. The answer is very simple — when people are not in power, they are drunk with power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Get Joseph Horvath ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to point out that the questions that arise in yesterday's and today's long debate are looking for answers that we have not heard so far. Mr. Minister, you always swear on the Constitution and the legislation that you do. I'd like to show you that this thing doesn't hold what you're saying. An important area of culture in Slovenia is the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which states in its Article 10 that a national cultural programme, a cultural policy strategy, should be adopted. We do not have this right now in Slovenia. The National Programme for Culture is a legal obligation – when you say, it is necessary to draw from the laws – adopted on the basis of a broad debate, the dialogue of many stakeholders working in this area, shortening cultural shit, artists; and defining key areas, priorities for the next period. The national cultural programme also represents a broad consensus on what is a public interest in culture and which are key priorities. However, I must say that the very lack of this national cultural programme, Mr Minister, points to the ignoring of the rule of law, even though you swore by your oath that you would come out of the Constitution and the legislation in force. This speaks of a lack of dialogue with stakeholders in the field of culture and a lack of vision in managing this department. The national cultural programme is a key basis for the implementation of concrete measures and funding, which is what the word is about all the time. And then one wonders how money is practically shared in your ministry if we don't have a national cultural programme in the country. That this document is important, however, is also the fact that it is legally stipulated that this programme is adopted by the National Assembly. It is therefore an important strategic document and that the direction of cultural policy cannot be the will of the Minister, who, after the power of the situation, is in this place. Your will too, Mr Minister, this exercise of culture cannot of course be. Since your performance, Mr Minister, the adoption of the national cultural programme has been halted or maintained, even though you repeatedly repeat in this interpretation that you swear to the law, and should have virtually all the strategic decisions of the cultural policy based in this document. I would also like to say that with cultural policy and its leadership in 2021, Slovenia is unfortunately concerned mainly with the internal and not the cultural ministry. The key steps in the management and implementation of cultural policy in Slovenia are – unfortunately, we must find out – to limit freedom of movement, association, the right to say and dialogue at this time. There is no culture dialogue in Slovenia. Let me conclude, Mr. Secretary, because a lot of things have already been said. I would like to tell you this: I received a letter from the culturers, which speaks of one thing that is practically present in all of Slovenia's cultural public, was also widely presented in the debate yesterday. The letter was sent by a conductor and artistic leader of the legendary Big Gang of Frogs from Celje. It is an orchestra that has played American big band music since 1946, these are jazz players who were once persecuted. What does this letter say? I quote: "Not only our orchestra, including many amateur and professional culturers, we musicians believe that Minister Vasko Simoniti is one of the worst cultural ministers from Slovenia's independence to today." Unfortunately, I had to read what the culturers wrote. And they continue: “The extremely ignorant attitude towards culture and performers is most likely due to the inability to perform our duties in such an important position, so we are the celery creators of culture determined to replace the current minister.” I've already said, Mr. Secretary, this is practically one warning, one appeal that I expect you to show some kind of relationship and respect. Like us, we show respect and respect for you, when we have practically one and a half days of discussion with you about an important issue, it is a culture in Slovenia that is in history and will play an important role in the future; it is also a striking one that is sometimes unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have written a comprehensive response to our interpolation on 132 densely typed or printed pages and would be happy to read pages 128-131, where an explanation of the national programme for culture is given. Since you tell me that there is no national programme for culture, I would be very interested to see how you have seen this in recent years, and if you have seen other ministers who have not brought this national programme together since 2017. I'd like to know what you were talking about if you were as direct as you might say you were right now. It's about that. We are preparing a national programme for culture, we have inherited all this. We have received one such package of very diverse matters and the previous ministers were unable to do so, in fact they have gathered one huge package of things to be put together in one new form with new reflections and consistent. We're doing this, and we're gonna do it. And the other thing is about dialogue. Dialogue is a constant thing; you say it's a prerequisite. Dialogue is often a used word, I'd say. There's a lot to talk about, but there's got to be two for a dialogue. We've always offered hands, invited everyone. I myself have had 103 meetings, my colleagues have a total of 500 meetings with a wide variety of people and this communication runs directly and is measurable and also presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica first, then the proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Mr Minister, I understand that it is time to write a national cultural programme. But the fact is, as long as there is no new, there is one consensus, there are some cultural policy directions that cannot be changed by various arbitrary measures, but by the cave session, which have been listed here, where rights in the field of culture, culture, artists are violated. Practically after a long list of magnetograms, you can read what was written here. It is a fact that one would expect that, until change occurs, at least what has been agreed in the past in grave as a national interest in culture is respected and, above all, legal rights are not violated, which was particularly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Violet Tomić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Minister, I have to take this. You said you had 103 meetings, and I was wondering if you could deliver us to the Committee on Culture in writing, with whom you had these meetings, with individuals. Because, according to my information, you haven't met with film makers or the Association, as mentioned above, that you've met. The communication was one-way, they sent you letters, you didn't answer them. I have a record of the National Council for Culture because I get it when the NSK Council was there and you blackmailed them to define up to 5 and 8 points of interpolation where the NSK is mentioned as an unaccounted-for party. Your work and cooperation with them should also depend on this. Please, we won't have time today, but I would like to ask you in writing for this information for the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	I don't know what protocol is, if that's enough, what you just said here, whether you send it in writing. We will look into this and you will arrange it in accordance with the rules; your letter, in which you will ask for the things you say. I'm working with the National Council for Culture. I asked them to tell me where the definitions found in the interpretation were written in writing and there were no misunderstandings. The Minister shall cooperate with the National Council for Culture as necessary and shall regularly attend all these meetings, to which I am invited. And about the filmmakers. I have met several times with people working in the field of film, with different groups, even in the National Council for Culture, we have discussed this subject extensively and have introduced ourselves to our views. This communication exists and is normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr German has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, of course, in the last 24 hours we have received your rhetoric in terms of mutual cooperation. I am talking about the dialogue you often like to exhibit, but on the other hand, we have witnessed the unilateral comparison of those who wanted to express their voice before parliament yesterday. It is very difficult to imagine when you explain how this dialogue is going on, how dialogue is actually going on; and this is the basic criticism of all cultures in Slovenia or at least the great majority. With all due respect, but when a person is in a position of great responsibility, he must be aware that this situation is not omnipotent and is not unlimited. So it is not only about the content and the attitude that you are cultivating, as we have seen in the last 24 hours in Parliament, but above all about the cultural relationship we are maintaining as a way of dialogue with all cultural creators. And you're just the tip of this pyramid. But in addition to the way, the modus operandi, if I may say so, are, above all, your decisions, the well-respected minister, who is directed against normative acts, as we have already proved to you not only us, but recognized lawyers from this area, as of course the guardian, who manifests to you the operation in contravention of legislation in at least one case, if not in more cases. Surely the guidelines do not go in the direction of reconciliation or cooperation and, as we have already said, yesterday — paradoxically — at a time when we boast on one hand how much we have done for culture in a financial sense, and on the other hand, the culturers are on the bar. This is our responsibility, respected, at a time when the Republic of Slovenia can be boundlessly indebted after decades because we do not have a fiscal rule, because at the time of the epidemic we will be able to repay up to 7 billion to the account. And we have the opportunity or the government has the opportunity to distribute money, which unfortunately in this case does not create added value. One is rhetoric and the other is disregarding normative acts. And both of you, Mr. Secretary, are being read to you by the motions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Violet Tomić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	Let me just add to that, rhetoric. Yesterday, in front of parliament, the culturers protested with their mouths glued, saying they were no longer hoping to speak. What did the Minister of Culture say about this in this House? I quote: “Black people, idiots and third-class people with low intelligence are protesting in front of parliament, these are fascists.” I'm sorry, this attitude and the insult of culturers is already a reason enough that such a minister cannot be a minister of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Madam, these words that you have spoken are true, but they refer to one paper that you had in your hands, where you quoted me as saying in an interview. And that's how I understood. I didn't even know there was anyone in front of the house. That's what you wrote there, and the black men I mentioned, you were quoting from this paper, and that's what I was reacting to because they were gathering in front of Parliament a while ago, I don't know, a few months ago, I don't know exactly when, but we can find out because it was a fact. They gathered together and were in the primordial ranks of the Antiphas, and tried to tear down the fences and behave badly; behind was a crowd of people, and they were staring and I don't know what. And those are the ones I was thinking about. But I also thought about those on the Metelk, because they were actually in the front row even with sticks and guns and they were even visited by the former president of the country. Above all, my words were directed at that group or people who had demonstrated before Parliament before the time, and among them were those blacks or ordinary fascists. That's what I'm talking about. But I didn't talk about these yesterday because I didn't even know about them until they told me later that there were 30 or 50 people in front of the house. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Joseph Horvath has the word. Get Boris Doblekar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dearly-respected candidates, esteemed Minister of Culture Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The marathon debate on the interpretation of the Minister of Culture is, of course, going into epic breadth, which is probably nothing wrong, even if we are in the context of the content or the department covered by or under the responsibility of Minister Vasko Simoniti. So culture, even in the broadest sense. Colleagues and colleagues, Slovenians is a culture whose central identification mark was our language, Slovenian language, preserved as a community, because for many centuries we did not have our Slovenian economy, nor our Slovenian politics, nor our Slovenian sport and anything else, where we would lead our policy and be defined by a common memory of all of this. The common link of Slovenians was language, Slovenian language, folk songs and even human creativity, later a Slovenian book and then various cultural activities, which in particular strengthened the sense of Slovenians as a nation and later a nation that needed its own country. About this thought was written by the inter-interpreted Minister Dr. Vasko Simoniti about a dozen years ago. I sign them with both my hands. We're a small nation, we're a small country, but we're only interested in big projects. One of these was the independence of our country 30 years ago. Dr. Vasko Simoniti was with him, so he probably won't be immersed, certainly not expecting any commendations, confessions, or medals. Colleagues and colleagues, it is the policy's duty to talk about talking at a high cultural level in this temple of democracy. We agree that the culture of dialogue in the Slovenian Parliament is unfortunately at a historically low level; therefore, it is high time to be sober, to be resettled, to come to our senses and to start another tomorrow. I will repeat once again the famous Aristotle, who wrote: People do not meet like cattle on pasture, but they will talk. And how are we supposed to talk? The answer is already given by the famous Cicero, who said that they had overthrown the empire because of the speeches. A French social psychologist named Gustave Le Bon added 20 centuries later that a greater pyramid than Keops could be built from the bones of people who fell as victims of the word. So strong, so great is the power of the word. And I'm really sorry that at the 30th birthday of our country, the visionary thought of Viktor Hugo, which reads: "The day will come when the fields of squawking ideas will be the only battlefields" – this idea in the 30th year of our country and 170 years later, what Viktor Hugo said these thoughts, is unfortunately not in Slovenia. I'm so sorry. I'm sorry. We can be excused for being a young democracy, but after 30 years, everyone grows up. When I read the text of the interpolation, no offense, respected applicants, I postponed this material after the third paragraph read. It didn't go forward. It didn't go any further. You mention – everywhere in Europe, where power has the right political option, today the culture is at the heart of clerical populism, and unfortunately also in Slovenia. Brutal. It's a bad word, but now it comes to mind. First of all, if we're talking about an option, it's either a centre-right option or a centre-right option. There's a first mistake. “Everywhere in Europe” – you do not specify the source who analyzed it, who investigated it; and of course, immediately in the third, fourth sentence of this text must see this hatred of cleric, as you say. clericalism is a world view that advocates church leadership of public life; and clericalism is not dominant in Slovenia. But it is known to cultivate hatred for someone; and Claire, according to yours, is here very convenient. And you forget, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear applicants, I don't know if we'd be speaking Slovenian today. I come from Prekmur, certainly not if there was no clergy. Now it is not an hour of history, but just one mecca of how to pay attention when we condemn or disqualify someone. An attack on RTV Slovenia is apparent to the minister. I don't know, maybe I don't read everything either, but as head of the coalition party's parliamentary group, I don't know, I didn't hear that Dr. Vasko Simoniti would replace any editor or editor. But I do know a minister or a minister who did. And I also know the name and last name of the editor who was stabbed, as they say. He's obviously shutting down Radio Student. I don't know which number. Attempt to censor foreign artistic institutions through the Slovenian ambassador to Rome. Lie number n+1. The exorcism and the destruction of the Horn. I didn't see Dr. Vask Simoniti sitting on a bagel that would tear down the Horn. I didn't see him. But I saw one member of the Left who spoke there about the constitutional code. I'm looking and I'm looking and I can't find this code. I can't find the constitutional code. I'm strictly against attacking media freedom. From New Slovenia you will not hear the attack on media freedom. However, we are in favour of obtaining the truth of domestic law in Slovenia. Whether 50 demanties of the Ministry of Culture are on various records, media reports, whether it's an attack or it's just an effort for the truth. Is it an attack if you demand a correction under the law? I don't think so, and the truth has to be on the highest level here. And if necessary, I suggest to the Ministry 50 more or 50 more times 50 demanties. The truth must win. When we talk about culture, we certainly have different views on culture, because there are many definitions about culture itself. I read somewhere that already in 1952 there were almost 260 definitions of culture. If we now asked 90 Members what culture is, we would get 90 different definitions because the concept of culture is actually one of the most difficult concepts to define. For many the most basic and fundamental definition of culture was given by Taylor, who writes that culture is a complex whole that contains knowledge, faith, art, morality, laws, customs and any other abilities and habits that a person acquires as a member of society. This one's pretty close to me. And ethymological. The word culture comes from, like many, the Latin term “colo” or “colere” verb, meaning everything — which is very important and is close to us — that we will cultivate, process and respect. And that is certainly the task of every citizen and citizen. I regret that this is, of course, my personal perception that today we are not talking about culture, but that it is a cultural struggle. And in the background, again, the privilege, the money and the situation. Today's interpolation seems to be a cultural fight against a minister based on some hateful political option right from the middle and some other world view from those under left governments that have flourished so far and on state resources for culture. Moreover, I agree with the Minister when he says that the Ministry of Culture cannot be a social service. It can't be. We have another resource for that. And of course, we all advocate that we must maintain a constitutional provision, respect the constitutional provision that Slovenia is also a social state, helping those on the verge. But it's not a topic today. Maybe a few numbers that are linked to Slovenian culture. In 2019, how many employees were employed in cultural homes, theatres and other institutions with stage activity? There were 2,000 618 of them. Employees in galleries and museums in 2019 – a thousand 48. Self-employed in culture – about 3 000 500. 2 000 422 has paid contributions from the State due to exceptional achievements, and in the last five years their number has increased by 600. EUR 10 million is earmarked by the State for social security contributions. About 0.7% of GDP is allocated to culture, making us the seventh country in the European Union after the share of GDP for culture. 36 million intervention funds have been allocated to this government for culture due to a pandemic of 36 million. Is it too much, or is it too little — it is of course a subjective assessment. The State, attention being given, paid to the cultural institutions last year all the funds envisaged, even though they failed to implement all the programmes from known circumstances. And something else, because I am also a member of the Committee on Finance and we have done a lot of work in Nova Slovenije with a change in the budget for 2021 and with the budget for 2022 and have looked at the comparison with the realization of 2019, Ministry of Culture. The realisation in 2019 was EUR 172.8 million. This year's budget – almost €238 million, which is a good 65 million more than the realisation and 38 percent increase in 2019. And that's why the Minister needs to be intertwined?Oh, my God! This shows – and of course all of us who have been in this House for some time now – what a struggle there is in cutting the budget cake. These figures show that Minister Vasko Simoniti has strong political support in this government. This is my assessment, not sitting on the government, but otherwise I would not have achieved such increases, because not all the resources reached 38% more for this year than was the reality of 2019 when the world lived under normal circumstances, there was no epidemic. As of 2022, next year, the budget is almost €230 million, which is still a 33% increase in the implementation of 2019. I'm finishing up a local project. I was extremely pleased when we adopted – remember, colleagues and colleagues – the Intervention Law to Eliminate Obstacles in Making Important Investments to Start the Economy After the COVID-19 Epidemic. Already on the first list of important investments, the construction of the unit for Prekmurje of the Maribor Landscape Archives can be found in order number 167 in the framework of regional development for Pomurje. The leadership of the Provincial Archives has done much for this project, for realisation; however, it has never had enough attention to previous ministers. The leadership of the Provincial Archives was invited two, three years ago by the MPs, if we can help. Today, I am pleased to note that the project is moving forward; or I would ask the Minister to make the public aware of the project as well. If anything, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to celebrate in 2019 when we celebrated the centenary of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native people, when I was also at the scientific symposium organised by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, and I heard there experts that a lot of archival material for Prekmurje is still unworked for known historical reasons. I wished that perhaps as a gift to Prekmurje in 2019 at least the start of construction works for the purposes of the unit of the Regional Archives of Maribor for Prekmurje. An extremely difficult investment, but as far as value is concerned, is extremely important for Prekmurje, perhaps in the next stage for Pomurje, when it may also become an administrative province. If I am a little bit more at home in numbers, let me mention this increase in a very different budget for culture. To remind you of the last three Ministers for Culture: Mr Dejan Prešiček – 162 million for culture, Mr Zoran Poznic has reached 10 million more, good 172, and today the Minister of Interoperability, Dr Vasko Simoniti, has reached as much as EUR 238 million for this year. Sometimes we say that money starts with money and ends with money. Yeah, it's also true that at least to build an infrastructure where culture happens, you just need money. And, of course, we also need money for contractors. After all that I know of the Minister, especially his work, I find this today's interpolation irrational, so I will act rationally and I will vote against the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Get Aljaž Kovacic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Members of Parliament and Members, a nice greeting to you all! In the beginning, may I wish the well-respected Minister for the Round Anniversary and much more successful work ahead, Minister! I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity for all mothers, mothers, mothers in the National Assembly and throughout Slovenia to have a beautiful mother's day. Honest congratulations! Now I'm gonna touch the interpolation. I have ten minutes at my disposal, and I'm afraid I won't be able to tell you everything I've imagined, but still. Of course, I will not support this interpretation or this uncultured political struggle in the National Assembly because it has no basis. When I read the proposal for interpolation, I did not detect in any of the points a single suspicion that the minister would do anything wrong and that he should therefore be intertwined or no longer doing his job. Above all, you can see that this continuation of your political struggle is taking over after President Marjan Sarec has thrown his rifle into the corn. He threw it not only for himself, but because of you, the well-respected opposition, you helped him. Just as you want to help the minister in order for him to step down, you've also helped Charz get the gun out of his shoulder. And that's why you don't have this government anymore. You need to know that. You need to be aware of that. Now, of course, you continue with this policy, with these accusations, lies, falsehoods, half-truths, what we must listen to here. Yesterday you have heard and once again I ask you, honourable speakers, to answer me that I might be able to make a better decision, given that in culture you have made a complete mess of everything when you had a government, including a superstar Levican, but you have done absolutely nothing for culture. But it's absolutely nothing. The culture or culture complained that there was not enough money for the government to have too little obedience, but this whole culture, I am talking about culture in Slovenia at all levels, in all areas. Now of course you represent some of your culture, the partial interests of you are always in place, and you represent some part of a culture that you stand for as a political option. And you are also involved in all these healths that have taken place in the last year of the Janša government, either in culture or in the media, in all the news that you launch abroad, lies; and then they come back to Slovenia and ours, in your opinion, independent media then inflates until the balloon breaks. This kind of work really doesn't seem constructive to me, and I think we should get in touch with each other and start working constructively. And to be aware that we are in an epidemic, that people are dying, that health personnel are doing their best and that cultural workers are also doing their best to present their work somehow to people through digital forms and so on. And you're running this show in Parliament to make the minister fall. You know exactly how much less you've done for culture than this minister or this government, that we know what it was like to be erased. You probably didn't respond to that yesterday and you haven't answered the data yet. Enrollment in the register is increasing, and you've lost him. So what's the problem? I don't know where you see the problem here. Then force the minister to go to the U.S.A.'s defense, which is illegal. Please. A lot of things this government has done a lot better than yours. You've lost director Mitja Okorn abroad. And what? Nothing wrong. You really drove into culture completely and there were no protests, no interpretations, nothing, no problems. Then you call the minister coldly a milky official, analphabet even. Catastrophe. How can you afford that? A doctor of science, a professor, a minister who is actually trying and working for this culture and who has also won the most money in the government. You know how hard it is to get money for culture, and he did it, and then you get your nicknames on it. You constantly attack him, challenge him, and, of course, he responds to you. But then again you attack and accuse him of being a troubled minister, and in fact you're a problem all by yourself. I think yesterday's really a lost day. Lost day for Slovenia, lost day for the National Assembly, lost day for the culture and art of this beautiful Slovenia. And indeed, this abuse of culture for political purposes goes beyond all limits, but it does indeed all borders. And those calls for resignation. You've got a lot of work to do, you've called for the resignation of your Prime Minister, who listened to you and has resigned, you've got a lot of other concessions, you've got a lot of redundancies. I don't think it's in place for you to go after a minister who's actually doing a good job. These are all the consequences of the unity of some leaded, difficult times, which have been difficult times both for citizens and citizens and for culture, for the economy; and thus, of course, you continue to do so in this manner. On the one hand, we have a minister, we have a culture, and on the other hand, we have left-wing activism. I hope we understand each other. That's it. That's why it's the way it is. And I would, with this grotesque or what you've been picturing all day yesterday and today you'll be trying, somehow pull a parallel with our Slav Grum from Šmarne near Lithia, who in his drama shows life in the imaginary city of Gogi, where there live people who are at the border between healthy and pathological reason. The artist comes from the fact that man is dependent on his subconscious, hidden desires that direct his life. Here I would find you, in the drama you probably know – The Event in Gogi. In the drama, it is mainly about partial pathological personalities, complexes, sexual inanimateness, violence that inhibits adult people in order to perfect themselves. These personalities are plunged into a dull and monotonous life and into a painful wait for any event that would disrupt this monotonous state. They're inactive people who just want to change. That's where I'd find you. I would like to thank the Minister for really good work, that he is communicative to cooperate with all societies, with all institutions, cultural people. The Ministry is preparing many invitations, there will be many reconstructions of cultural monuments, church, castles, cultural homes. We also look forward to it at our end and at Šmartne near Lithia in Lithium. We are opening the exhibition Valvasoriano, then at the 120th anniversary of Slavko Grum's birth, the opening of the statue, where we will also invite you, honourable Members and Members, in August when it will be 120 years old. There are many things, many good works still await the Minister, and I believe that he will continue to do his work after unsuccessful interpretation. We can only wish for such a minister. Slovenia deserves it, and I really thank God that we have a minister who is concerned about culture and who works for culture. When you can or should you boast in such results in the previous government as can be commended by the minister, then I would give you a hat down. And do not say that you speak on behalf of culture, of all cultures in Slovenia; you speak exclusively in your name in this uncultured political struggle. Do not tell me that you speak on behalf of the culturers, such as the choir of St. Nicholas, the folklore group of the Maporje, the vocal group Lipa, the octet Valvasor, the singing society Zvon, the cultural and sports society of the Great Shanga, our tambourines. In their name you do not speak, they do well, they are cultural, they create, they work hard, they get municipal funds, they get more money from the country and as a result, culture has more. And don't say that you speak for all this culture because it doesn't and that's not true. It is necessary to be aware of this and people with respect for citizens and citizens are very aware of it. And let me finish with good wishes to the minister and to all mothers today. And if I draw a parallel with our Slav Grum again, the drama ends when the people leave the city uncomforted, inactive, life-sufficient; and I believe that this too will end this grotesque in the National Assembly, which you are completely needlessly portraying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Let's get the mags ready. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I've been taught that somehow you respect the elderly, that's some kind of education, even though I've asked many times that it would be more important for you to judge a man by his actions. Of course, we do well to be especially careful of the elderly. I'm not saying this right now, Minister, because of your age, but mainly because it's incomprehensible to me that a person who's gone through an academic sphere who's given so much and so much in life through can actually behave in a way that you do. In fact, you should have resigned only because of yesterday's performance, which is inappropriate for any function, for any minister, and especially for the Minister of Culture. And to say that you work for the welfare of Slovenian culture is actually sad and funny. And now I'm going to go through things for a while, because the point has been said anyway in these hours. That the Ministry of Culture falls in dialogue is indeed unimaginable. You say you're talking, but then I don't know why 90% of the groups that belong to culture are actually advertised. As a government, you have retained subsidies for Slovenian film, you are constantly accusing the government of Marjan Šarc, while saying that you will remedy this administrative error by April 2020. Where are we today? March 2021. If that was the main reason, what did you do for a year? Only the PKPs could we pay the filmmakers for what they did a year ago. About self-employed people in culture. You're saying that you've done everything professional here, then I don't know why the Association, including the Ombudsman and, finally, the court warned you that it wasn't all the way it was supposed to be. But you're still saying how hard you're trying for these institutions. Of course, you do not personally recruit, you are employing through the supervisors you set up – the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, the National Museum, the Modern Gallery. You call the principals before the professional council even proposes to you. Why do all these museums sound and you listen to the expert?Oh, my God! Which expert, from your side; or who is this profession? As far as the media's concerned, keep your mouth shut, RTV, STA. A colleague from New Slovenia says that they do not interfere with the media, and Minister Tonin supports the government he is a member of, and invites the director of the Slovenian Press Agency to resign. But they don't interfere with the media. In short, you burned on the whole line. And finally, to focus on your greatest desire, it's called a museum of self-reliance. Of course, no one will challenge the museum of self-reliance as such, but you will most likely turn it into a museum, such as your government profile today, because we are likely to go even so far as to have someone joked about the last time your president wrote a letter; and he probably wrote – Janez Janša is lecturing Prešeren's work. What are we gonna watch at the museum?Oh, my God! And that you will not say that I am saying something in mind, dear Minister, yes, you can tell me this, but listen: With interest, as well as with concern and amazement, we are monitoring the planning of your ministry's project, which wants to devote itself to a new museum presentation of Slovenian independence. We would therefore like to invite you to open such a debate, to which you and all of us are bound by modern history and contemporary museum practices. To this you and all of us are bound by the spirit and the letter of the Slovenian Constitution and laws. To this you and all of us are bound by the movements, the actions that the museum is supposed to devote to them, the so-called Slovenian independence. Do you know who the author is? Your department. Department of History of the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana, where you were a professor and later also a chairman. And if it is not the cream of Slovenian history that should create such a museum, then I do not know who and how you are talking about its establishment. Dear Minister, you are for Slovenian culture what is the mark for Slovenian fields.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	Sir, did you say - hail? Ah, well, I just heard. Deep thought. Lord, I will not answer you any other things, because you know not enough; and this is an abomination. What you've been saying is inappropriate behavior because you dare to talk about things you don't know anything about. Do you understand? That's your problem. That's a fundamental problem. You said the History Department was cream. Yeah, that's where I was, then I'm cream. Is that right? Say it out loud, I'm cream. Come on, come on, come on, come on. And that I would go to the Museum of Slovenian Independence. Yeah, who's gonna go after him?Oh, my God! Yeah, me. What? What's wrong with that? And the procedure is how it goes, and this is the theater they like to do. The museum will really be a museum in two years. It is necessary to set a start, then to name the world, then to open a broad debate, then to design a concept, and then, of course, to ensure that things are carried out. And one year and a half will last, or something like that; and here is even the background, but at the beginning you have to lay an organizational foundation. That's what this is about. And no one's gonna rule anyone out, and I don't know what. Don't do these things because you really don't know how to organize things. I don't know if you've organized anything or anything in your life. Please, this is a serious matter that requires a lot of effort. Logically, the other opposition thinks it will be so and otherwise, because the Priors don't trust it. In fact, it's based on life and everything in this world on mistrust. That's why they're laws, and that's why it's a parliament. Makes sense. But we have democracy, and in such things, there will be a clear agreement. I'm kind of tired of talking about dialogue. What do you think dialogue is just where you get it right? That your business is right? And you're talking about the Association. Give me three people, members of the Association, say it out loud. You don't know them. And I'm not answering the letters that are signed as a collective body, because from the time that this corporate stupidity went down, I'm not going to fit in. Maybe he should sign his name and name, and we'll talk. We talked to everyone else, invited everyone, and we're always open to it. Of course I'm being mean and something like that. That's what you think. And I think that normal, moderately speaking with harsh accusations and instilling three times worse, rather than a clear and decisive voice, which knows what is behind such a voice and what is the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kovacich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Minister, I'm asking you a question, and you're going to my discredit. You don't even know who I am, what I've done in my life, but it doesn't matter today. I'm not a minister. You can wave, you can complain, but the fact is you're an incompetent minister. The cream, I'd say, has a shelf life and breaks down. As for the university, Minister, go outside. Here are the signatures, 17 members of the department signed this. But if it's not a professional public, then I don't know who it is. Mr. President, you can assure the Minister to sit in the chair.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Dear Minister, I ask for respect and respect for the rules of procedure. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	In fact, every word about this minister is a lost word. Of course I'll support this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Procedurally, proposed Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. We have just witnessed the Minister's departure for disagreement with the MP. Is it possible to usurp power, but is it usurpation ignorance? Dear Vice-President, I ask you to stop this meeting until the distinguished Minister sits back in his chair again, because we're only sitting here for an hour and a half, and he's actually exercising authority here that doesn't belong to him. The National Assembly is over the Ministry, it is intertwined and it has a role here today to listen to Parliament's findings. So I ask you to stop this session until the distinguished minister returns to his seat. This applies as a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your proposal. I'm not gonna do that. This is the Secretary of State, and we'll continue the meeting. He's got Violet Tomic on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Presidents, we're interpreting the minister, not his chair. If this chair is held so tightly, let it be at least so worthy to sit on it for as long as the interpolation takes place and as long as we have a reasoned statement of criticism and the interpolation articles. It is unworthy and unacceptable that he has left this esteemed national assembly in such a way as to prove that the Lord does not tolerate criticism at all. He was very insulting to a colleague, very grave and very insulting, unacceptable. I support the co-proposer's proposal to suspend the meeting, ensure the Minister's presence and continue with the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Madam Member, I am in charge of this meeting and I will not interrupt this session. We have a secretary of state here. I would like to draw your attention to Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. When we are talking about procedural matters, you are talking about the procedure and which articles have been violated in the management of the Rules of Procedure. Don't have any other discussion. Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Ferryan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I have a procedural proposal or I will ask you because you are chairing and, of course, also interpreting the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the rules of procedure say that at the time of 18 hours of interpretation, the minister has to sit in this chair for 18 hours, but it could probably take a few minutes to get out. I don't think that's a big deal. But speaking of the rules of procedure, yesterday someone else was assigned to leave the meeting, but it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	That's why, Mr. Ferryan, I'm not stopping this meeting. Here you go, Mr. Matjaž Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	It's only been an hour and a half, and the chairman's been sitting like this. I'm embarrassed. I don't know. If you're not embarrassed, then something's wrong. As for Mr Ferjan, I hope his colleagues have told him what we agreed on at the meeting yesterday. I'm sorry. Then the communication in your client is false. We have agreed, and I think that, in accordance with what we agreed at the meeting yesterday, today is also the meeting. And please, if his colleagues don't answer him, then you answer him because you were at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	Dear Mr Han, I came to the meeting in the end and I am not obliged to explain to Mr Ferjan what you agreed on there, because I am not even aware of it. This debate was not a procedural proposal either, Mr Han. Here you go, Mr. Ducky. But I'm really warning you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Mr President, we are interpelling the Minister, not the Secretary of State. And if it's the Minister's interpretation, then we expect the Minister to be here. But I can tell you that from the people who are monitoring this, I already receive the texts yesterday: “Call a psychiatrist.” That's the end of the quote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Dear Mr Trček, I expect us to be respectful; and someone cannot sit here for 18 hours without going to drink a glass of water. Please be respectful! Even to all of us here who are present. Tina Hefferle, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Dear Vice-President, my procedural proposal refers to Article 69, which speaks of a procedural proposal. In this spirit, Comrade Ferjan has asked you a procedural question, which is also defined by this Article 69, which means that a Member may submit a procedural proposal or a procedural question as to the course of the meeting. I expect you, as chairman, to answer his procedural question regarding the presence of one of the candidates at the meeting. And I expect you, too, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, if you really came to that meeting for the last minute – but you didn't, yesterday you sat there with us all the time when we talked about how we would respond to that saying of removal – to ask yourself, Vice-President, what we agreed on, because this is your duty, if you are now in charge of the meeting. Once again, in conjunction with Article 69, I ask you to answer his procedural question from the post of President with the authority of Mr Ferrian. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your proposal. I already replied to Mr Ferjan that I would not interrupt the meeting even if Mr Minister went to drink coffee. I really suggest we move on. Here you go, Mrs. Hefferle, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Mr Vice President, if you look at the magnetogram or have Mr Ferrjan tell you again what he really asked you. He did not make a motion to suspend the meeting; he asked you from a procedural point of view why one of the applicants is sitting here today, but should be removed from the sitting. That was his procedural question. I'm once again giving you my procedural proposal. In accordance with Article 69, which requires you to answer any motion or procedural question, it is my procedural duty now to answer Mr Ferjan why Mr German may nevertheless sit here and participate in the meeting as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Mr. Ferryan, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Thank you first, colleague Hefferle, but I don't need a lawyer or a lawyer. This is related to the Rules of Procedure, so there will be no discussion or discussion of this in the next few ten minutes. You have answered my procedural question concerning the Rules of Procedure itself, whether there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure that the Minister must sit in the Chamber at all times, in this particular case for 18 hours. And you said no, that you wouldn't interrupt the session. But what I added next, I just remembered what was going on yesterday. If it's a matter of pride for someone to get two reminders and something else, it's no longer procedural, so I'm going to finish here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Then I think I responded to your motion of procedure. Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	I'll be very brief. In fact, what happened yesterday is the same as what happened to Mr. rapper from Ljubljana when you took away from him all the status he had since 2017. And this is a relationship to the position and power that means unlimited to you, but on the other hand it should be a responsibility. That I'm sitting here today is the result of yesterday's arrangements. So, respectable SDS, I was here yesterday, and I'm going to be here all day today, and you're not going to remove any of the two candidates or anyone from the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Let's get the mags ready. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. What has just happened and what has actually been happening for two days, since the beginning of the debate on interpolation, is unacceptable and proves only one thing. It proves the absolute arrogance of this area. And excuse me, Minister, you are a guest in the National Assembly today, and you have no right to insult Members and Members. You have no right to insult and speak whether they speak nonsense or not, whether they know things or not, because you do not know whether they know or not. The only problem is that you think that you and your liberal click with John Janša are at the head of the all-powerful and the only one you know and the only one you're right about. I'm sorry, this relationship is really unacceptable. An eloquent case of abuse of power and law. And even as Comrade Matjaž just said, we can draw parallels to the case of the rapper Zlatkot. You just want to keep everyone who thinks otherwise quiet. Unless it goes otherwise, with insults and personal discredits. And it's simply a rematch of this Jancist power. From you, there is unlimited hatred displayed by cynicism, regret, and so on. Excuse me, Minister, this is really unacceptable. There must be some boundaries to behavior. And tell me who from the opposition was insulting to you on a personal level. One thing is that we do not agree with the arguments, this is normal for Parliament. But that you're refusing to go back to La Janez Janša with tweeting – boom, what are you going to say, you have no idea. I don't know, maybe it's already a problem that Alaska is at least 50 years younger than you or what, 40. But we really can't get down to that level. It's no problem to offend me or him. The problem is that we don't want to live in a society like this and that you're characterizing it. You're the minister. You're the Minister of Culture. But if I may say so, you're acting very uncultured. Dear Minister, in these two days, if we dismiss all the debates, you've only shown your true face with these reactions. You have shown your true face — you and the whole government. But if I touch a little bit more of the interpolation content right now. We've been talking about this for two days, and you haven't been able to say much, except to insult those who think otherwise about Zlatko's case, when you unlawfully, unlawfully, through the laws and through the Constitution that you swore upon when you became Minister, you took his status. Your colleague Tina Heferle has very professionally and well justified why she does not drink water this procedure of yours, and you, with the help of the vice president of your party, have simply interrupted the debate by turning off the microphone. First her, then Matjaž the German, who opposed it, wanted to throw out. It's the way SDS works, it's the mode of SDS. But as for Zlatkot, once again, you took away his status as a self-employed person in culture and thus financial resources for one reason only. We can be philosophies here as much as we want, but the reason was only one – because he publicly opposed your President and because he participated in the protests. That's the only reason and the only reason. Although these activities had nothing to do with his professional or artistic work and had nothing to do with it. But you prove that those who think differently can be eliminated by all means. Infringements may, by withdrawing financial resources and thereby withdrawing the possibility of normal survival, result in a failure to work in the same way. Like you did with this artist, you're probably working on ministries, public institutions and so on. But this is unacceptable because in democracy it has the power of borders, power is not absolute. And because you're a minister, or because Jansa is the Prime Minister of the Government, he can't take someone's livelihood, because he publicly opposes him. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. We're in 2021. And our constitution says we're a democratic republic. And you, I know, you want to make a new republic, another republic. But you will not succeed because civil society in Slovenia is so strong that I do not think you will succeed in any way in this year. However, you have come into power with fraud and 80% of people are against this kind of functioning of power. But the two parties decided, even though before the elections they were advocating something else to support Janša's power rather than to go to the elections. Understand who can, but that's right. Your authority is not legitimate, and you are aware of that. [[advertising from the hall]] And you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	May I continue, Madam Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Commissioner, please respect the rules of procedure and discuss the content on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Sure. The more I'm discussing content right now, the more I can't. I am discussing the case of a rapper named Zlatkot, who was unlawfully deprived of his status and thus the possibility of survival and artistic activity. But I just wanted to tie in two sentences to how he understands the current governance structure of democracy. And I wanted to refer to the fact that rapper Zlatko lost his status because he opposed the Prime Minister. Moreover, the Slovenian Press Agency was attacked or the authorities wanted information from editors at the Slovenian Press Agency on why and how long the interview they published with this same rapper was. This is unacceptable and undemocratic, and we are fighting against it in the opposition. I just wanted to show in a graphic way that this is happening on multiple levels. This case of rapper, however, is just one of such eccentric cases. Just as yesterday, when the SDS Vice-President prevented Parliament from speaking, one of the Members argued that this decision was not a suitable decision that took up the status of self-employed in culture for rapper Zlatkot. Reputable lawyers, such as Dr. Rajko Pirnat and the Ombudsman, also attach to this position. It's not from the vine. This is unacceptable and such behaviour must no longer be repeated. Second thing, Minister, about the media. The Janša government also launched a strong attack on all Trump, Orban-style media and so on; in the sense that all media, which think perhaps slightly differently than the government and are critical to the government, are false, are in the hands of some other structures, you say here in Slovenia, in the hands of the former regime. That's unacceptable. You, Madam Minister, said yesterday during the debate that you did not try to silence any media and that this is not true. I don't know if you're personal, but you're the minister in charge of the media. Are you or aren't you? It is true that you have spoken less, except when the opposition has requested extraordinary meetings, but you are the Minister for this area. And you tried to change leadership to public RTV for all the weights, and you have also partially succeeded, and you are in a serious conflict with the Slovenian Press Agency. And it's just because it doesn't work in perfect harmony or doesn't write it the way the government would want me to write it, and sometimes it's a little bit critical. One example is that of this rapper Zlatkot. When they published an interview with him, John Janša raised, tweeted, and demanded that it be clarified how this could have occurred. If I read perhaps just one quote from the response to interpolation, which is very worrying about the state of media freedom in Slovenia. I quote, Mr. Minister: "Foreign media have repeatedly repeated this and a number of other lies created and disseminated by the same sources. In the fact that even Western media in parliamentary democracies do not traditionally publish conflicting opinions and corrections, lies may eventually be known as truth. For a modest and short-term political gain, circles around interpolation writers are willing to sell even the reputation of our country." I'm sorry, Minister, but this rhetoric you're taking to the media is extremely controversial. This is the rhetoric of the President of the Government, who has longed for a wave of resentment throughout democratic Europe, not only in Slovenia, but you have even been called to the committee of the European Parliament and you have not been able to respond. I don't know why I asked you that last night, but there was no answer, you couldn't answer it. But the fact that Slovenia, which has been this so-called transition as an example all the time, has today fallen into a group of those countries where human rights and media freedom are most violated is indeed a disgrace. And that this has happened in one year of this Yanšev power, and you are somehow trying to explain that these hunters are now udbofia and I do not know what is not only in Slovenia, but throughout Europe. All over Europe, these are forces, dark forces, dark forces, and I don't know what you're talking about. He could say that it's tragic, even though it's rather scary, it's scary, it's the kind of society we live in. As it is said, here you went even further than Orban, to talk about some fake news, fake news for all those journalistic contributions that may be critical to power. That's terrible, that's terrible! And I hope that the matter will really crystallize and end as soon as possible. You destroy, you kill all the existing media in every way possible, the President of the Government has marked all the media to be communist, to be unknowable of what kind, under the influence of what authority. You didn't deny it yesterday, you didn't say leave the media alone, but you said yes. You replied to your colleague Jeraj: Yes, because it is true that the media are such in my opinion and that is why they need to be cleaned and disciplined. This is truly horrifying and terrible; at the same time, at the time of the coronary crisis, the media received no assistance, no systematic aid, except for Novi24TV, when you tried to free up to a few tens of thousands of euro payments by RTV in a few months. A parallel Slovenian press agency, called the National Press Agency, was also established. While you were asking yourself yesterday when we asked you, you distanced yourself from this, but it was an agency that was supposed to be like some parallel agency in this parallel world of yours. And what did the chief and responsible editor of this agency, Mr Aleš Ernecel, who is close to the ruling SDS party for which they acted, even have been signed on the website as co-authors or co-workers of this agency, such as the President of the National Council, Mr Kovšca, for example, the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Mr Gorenak? For this agency, the editor-in-chief said that it was a fascist press agency in the Republic of Slovenia. And you don't find that controversial. You said, "Yes, because I'm not going to respond to things that I have no control over and I'm not connected to. Excuse me, Minister, I think if you're a member of the government and your government members are members of this agency, portal or whatever it is, it's already a big enough fact to seriously ask which way we're going. If that's not an issue, then I don't know what's at stake. Then this government, or all those who have cooperated with it, seems to take this as a compliment if we say that it works according to fascist principles, or I don't know. It is only because of the attitude towards the media that interpolation would be given not only to you but to the whole government; or it would be right to resign. However, we all know that Janez Janša has wanted absolute control of the media since 1990, he has tried, in his first mandate, to obtain printed media through these acquisitions, he has taken over through the sale of Laško and so on, and now the main target of RTV is STA, of course the easiest target because it is in state hands. The main problem is that Janez Janša did not get over the fact that after the war he did not come out as a great winner and absolute leader of Slovenia, such as in Croatia Tudjman, and where else could we list. He didn't get over it, and now he's taking this crisis as some kind of new war, and he thinks he can get through it. But it won't, I'm sure it won't and that this story of yours will be over very soon. Maybe a few more words about the location of the premises on Metelkova 6. It's the same process again. You have faced NGOs that have had a significant impact on the democratisation of Slovenia. Many social hardships in the Republic of Slovenia, which the government has not been able to deal with, have greatly alleviated. And now you have decided – games for organisations such as the Peace Institute, various gay and lesbian movements and so on – because they are critical of you. And since you disagree with their ideology, you simply did. The suspension of the dialogue was fully implemented and this is it. This shows how you operate. I'm not going to lose words about the frame-up. My colleagues have already said a lot. In short, you've changed everything possible for the directors of public institutions, for those who have expired their mandates, and for those who haven't. Perhaps only the Museum of Modern History would be touched. That's where you put Dr. Dezhman's CEO again. We know that this is an extremely controversial person, a person who has a very one-sided view of a period of half-lived history, which is an extremely cheerleading, biased cheerleading to a camp in World War II, which was sympathetic to collaboration, with Nazism. It's extremely unilateral and tending to write about these things and see them, but that's sad. This is another proof that you are not building on antifascism, but on some other ideologies. Not to mention that you have given the Church considerable compensation for the loss and, on the other hand, you leave the entire cultural sector completely free. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Yes, first we have a procedural one, Anja Bah Žibert, then he wants the word Minister, and also Alenka Jeraj wants a procedural one. Which one's it gonna be first? Here you go, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	I wanted procedurally because of the lies to be demandated, and basically the lack of understanding of democracy, to which you, the President, should have reacted. [[advertising from the hall]] Please explain to Mr Koprivec what democracy is, because he obviously does not understand the basics. He said we have an illegal government. The government is composed of those who gather enough votes of democratically elected Members; and this has also happened. My friend Koprivc was talking about cheating. What kind of scam? Members of Parliament have been elected in democratic elections and voted in favour of the government they want. You were talking about the Jancist region. The government is now composed of SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC and Desus. And please explain to your colleague Koprivec the fundamentals of democracy. We have all been elected, and who voted for what government is democracy. If you in SD have problems with democracy and with different opinions, this is not our problem. Please explain this to him because he obviously doesn't understand how governments are made up in democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Member of the Commission, this was not a purely procedural proposal. The procedural proposal should relate to the conduct of the meeting itself under the rules of procedure. Anya Bah Žibert, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. I know absolutely what a procedural proposal is, and I also know what you as chairman can do. The fact is that you are in charge of the meeting and, of course, work in a way that respects order, rules of procedure and, finally, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And here's my procedural proposal. I respectfully ask you, President, to take care of it, because it is obvious that some of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have lost it in this National Assembly to give it to them again. Why? Because we are moving from such discussions to an extremely dangerous field. An extremely dangerous field. To say that a party in power that has received the greatest support from the electorate and the electorate is illegal, that it has come to power with deception, that this party is then a rematch, respected, and we are moving to a dangerous field. I allow different debates, but when someone goes so far – and this is the one who worships the slaughterhouses – then I wonder where it all goes. For I hope that some do not run a policy to make history repeat, so once again please let the Members of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia share that we will still be within the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your proposal. We'll move on. He's got Dr. Runk on a trial basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	These were two eccentric misuses of the procedural question, although the SDS still has 1 hour 23 minutes to discuss. Start using the rules of procedure. But if I can get to the Constitution on my own. The Constitution says the government is in line with the National Assembly. The Minister at the Interpellation does not answer to the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure shall apply to all present here, including to the Minister. I've heard that I'm a progeny of slaughterhouses, that my mind is thicker than four and four and four. This is a clinical diagnosis, sir is a historian, not a psychiatrist; and no one is acting. If, however, you are not able to conduct the meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, let us put an end to this, let us elect a new leadership of the National Assembly, which will be able to do so. Right now, it's only the vice president who's capable of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Mr Member, first of all, this was not a procedural proposal. Please be respectful. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that our disrespect has gone beyond all limits, so I am adjourning the meeting for 15 minutes and we will continue at 11.15. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 10.58 p.m. and resumed at 11.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. Mr. Koprivc, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. Since the Institute of Procedural Procedure has been abused twice so far, I would just like to ask you, Madam Vice-President, to explain the difference between legitimate and legal. I have never claimed that this government is not legal, but that it is not legitimate, because the two parties who made it possible for the government to vote before the elections and after the elections claimed that they did not go to such a government. And from this point of view, I take it as a betrayal of the electorate and the electorate. As for the stolen elections and so on, but I did not say so, Janša's side says so; and this is always when they fail to win the elections or fail to form a government. With regard to the Constitution, however, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I propose that you hand it over to Minister Simoniti, who violates it in an eccentric and persistent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Mr Koprivc, this was not a procedural proposal. Mr. Secretary, it's your turn. You wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would only take a brief look at what Ambassador Koprivc said. I'm not going to replicate all those things that keep repeating themselves, because in our answer, everything is vastly forgotten. I know what this game is – to repeat the same thing, no arguments. It's okay for people to read, they've heard, listen carefully to things. I would look only at Mr Koprivc's persistent repetition, the new terminology has started to apply – orberal click that we are. Look out! I am asking you, fellow Members of the SD Party, whether you agree. And do you also agree that it says in your interpretation that we are using a new form of fascism? If you say publicly that you agree with this, my opinion of you is as I made it very clear yesterday as to what kind of client you are and how I see you – the backdoors of the backdoors, Trumpettengold ideology. That's what I'd say. But when it comes to the media, all I'd read is when you say we're subjugating them and so on. It was also said how we wrote. The Lord has not given any argument, one fact where these attacks are actually taking place on the media, how they attack each other, how we affect the media landscape. He was talking about RTV; I think he knows how to put leadership on RTV. It is also clear what role the Supervisory Board has played in recent years. In this House, he made it clear what he has to do with leadership, and he did not belong to our option. As far as the media is concerned, I would only quote a journalist in Ljubljana because you know that we wrote 50 demanties, as was said. Mr Jožef Horvat said that it would be good if we wrote them 50 times 50, if necessary, because there is everything with the facts, on all these flat-rate triggers, which are in accordance with the ability of the mental process that this client of the rear-viewers is capable of. And some journalist in Slovenia wrote very clearly, and I will release those ugly words, and I will say: "Those who cowardly lie about Slovenian politicians, the government and the country in foreign media are ordinary human Pip-Pip, worthy of contempt. And I admit, I'm really curious who's had their hands so dirty in the last few months with tap-pipes all over their own country. Pip-pipe across your own country abroad, and even with 90% of the claims filed, is a purely ordinary edition, issued at the normal human level. This is not done.” That's what he wrote to us. And about the media, that's how you get in touch and try to make an impression, like all the media are like that. At least three-quarters of the media landscape, three-quarters, I say, because I am also thinking here about different platforms, those, thirds, even a species; it has led to the fact that, of course, opinions are also inverse, very clearly articulated. Finally, you have a nice article in Del on Tuesday, March 23, from Mrs. Alenka Puhar, where she also writes about such journalists as you value, who tell lies abroad about Claas Relotius. It's a famous story from Germany, it turns out he's been writing lies for 20 years, and then they expose him, and of course there's nothing to do with him. And I could list the others. All I'd say is this about the media. In fact, I understand the journalistic profession, which must be highly qualified and so on, and nothing bothers me, I also said that if the editor of one week has a primary school and an explanation and teaches the whole world. It bothers me to see on RTV Slovenia – on television, which we all support – that a TV journalist asks the same person and they both have a questionable school together. No lawyer, no lawyer, no dentist, no plumber with proper qualifications; only journalists can be anything. If they're somewhere else, I don't mind, but if they're on RTV Slovenia, it really bothers me, because there's so much talk about diplomas about all these things. Please, publicly request that diplomas be shown by people who discussed the one-year work of the Slovenian government with crazy sovereignty on Sunday or Saturday. They salt their brains and know everything, but they can barely finish any school. And it's not worth a journalistic profession, it's just political activism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, no education can dissuade you from your primitive and hospitable debate you are having in the National Assembly. Whether you are an intellectual or not, whether you are educated or not, this does not give you any legitimacy to speak under a level that is not only not worthy of the National Assembly, is not worth a friendly discussion with insults by pretending and, of course, by instigating. Dear Minister, these media debates are very interesting, which you have always started. It is very interesting because you see that we export mainly left thinking to foreign media such as The Guardian or Der Spiegel, politics – Die Welt, Die Presse, ZDF, ARD, Der Standard, The Economist, The New York Times. Dear Minister, any of us could have this effect to influence the world media on writing about Slovenia, would probably be hegemon in Slovenian politics. Just let me ask you a question because you're an intellectual and with your attitude you want to show in some way, I'll say, your respect; but in another way you can't do that and start talking to us. What is your opinion on television, on comments owned or close to the SDS party? How do they present themselves, how do they spread culture, and what is this medium that is in your possession? You set a mirror for everyone else; you don't see your closeness. That's what I'm talking about, Your Honor. Do you think such a work is worthy of being held by the Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I had a few hands. Mr. Koprivc, you wanted a replica. Here you go. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, it's with this very intervention that you've shown what your relationship with the media really is. Insulting journalists to judge who is good and who is not, I find this absolutely unacceptable for the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. But if you're interested, I'd like to show you a few more tweets here from Prime Minister Janez Janša, which means brutal assaults and insults on journalism and journalism. Here, that's what we're talking about. Among other things, you have raised a lie again, I hope to say that you have not had any impact on the attempt to change editorial policy and management structures in the media. That's not true, that's not true. You've gone to STA and public RTV with all possible means. When you saw that the legislation would not go through the National Assembly, you went to RTV to change the programming world. YOU even tried to push yourself into the so - called demographic fund so that you could change the governing structure. Please don't say you don't influence the media. Because only with these public statements and discredits do you have a harsh and powerful influence on the media. On the other hand, you establish, as you said, and financially also support these parallel portals, Nova24TV and, of course, all others, which are their subjects or related to them, all local SDS portals. This is an extremely hostile portal. It would be hard to talk about the media at all. I think it's more than the media are some hostile trumpets by the ruling SDS party. And these portals also include people who publicly and clearly sympathize with fascist ideology. So much for you starting to expose fascism and ideology. You are seriously interfering with media autonomy, harshly offending journalists and journalistic work, and this is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable for a democratic country in the middle of Europe. You're embarrassing us in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	Thank you very much. He's got Natasha Sukich on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's not procedural. It's a replica of the minister. I was discussing it yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	It's a replica. Minister, I'd just say what's going on with the media. You can afford incredible criticism at the expense of journalists and the work of journalists on public television, STA do not protect, but you have to take care of the entire media landscape. And as far as I'm aware, the ministry hasn't responded to the media yet, whether or not the fascist NTA is on the media. That's not the answer the press in your ministry get on the question. You're also pretending that you don't know what NTA is, even though it says everywhere what happened. As a minister, you should be shielded, for the first time, from racist writing in the media. That was in one of your clients in the nearby media. We recently had racist outbursts. Now all we had was a declaration that the NTA was a fascist medium; and you remain silent. You don't have a problem with that, and you won't say anything here about the ethics of journalism, professionalism and so on. But you're getting together here and you're not protecting the STA. Even if you help with your proposals for new legislation to destroy the STA and subjugate yourself in a national way if we have a national that will approach the New24TV standards, then it will be a disaster. [[…]] Dear Minister, you must look at the level of the entire media landscape. And don't say anything about Novi24TV, whose shareholders are many members of the SDS. I don't know if you are or aren't, but I didn't ask, and it doesn't matter. It is important that you are in the role of minister and must rise to another level above all this politics; and simply as a minister to establish authority and say that this is not possible. Besides, it's for the NTA. Such a medium should simply be prohibited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I don't know if this medium is on the media. I know we're 23. 2. sent by the Cultural and Media Inspectorate for reporting. What's the result now, I don't know exactly, is the process going on. That's all I've got so far. But I don't know, and I'm not gonna deal with it. You say I have to watch and watch over all the media and the media landscape. No, there are many institutions for that. We have to make sure that democracy runs properly. I'm not getting involved in any private media. I can have my own opinion, and I can say it easily. Even if you think it's wrong. But I am interested in public RTV Slovenia, because I pay it just like all of you. And it won't be home-made. And I also have the right to judge or see how this medium works and encourages me. And I also know what the news about reporting was yesterday. Very nicely mounted in favor, as I would say, of objectivity, so to speak, but this is now a secondary opinion. About how the media are, I can read a whole series of things to you from people who are quite exposed to the media or good journalists. And that now there is a gentleman saying that we are in disgrace to Europe and the world, please, one gentleman could not even read which media has written bad about us, but it is irrelevant. I am interested in and demand that on RTV Slovenia people are qualified, objective, honest and try and drive things as they are; as all people may require. And that is also the responsibility of the programme council, which is there, which is why it consists of a flute, as Parliament is made up of a flute. And interests must be created and programming platforms and rules must be developed. Rules – I'm talking, not something else. But I asked you if you agree with this party – and when you all do, ask each other if you agree – with your trends. Because then I will tell you that we are an liberal click and that we are a modern-day fascism. Here, however, the gentleman there, who has a lot of connections and knows a lot about journalism, especially the socialist one, when they had two classes or two breakes of the fifth grade of elementary school, were editors of the central newspapers and he knows a lot about it. You talk about it, but you decide and you tell me if that's what we are. And then we're gonna analyze this backdoor client, just like it is. And you don't talk about intellectuals because you don't know what that word means.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to maintain some level of debate all together, please! No charges. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, dear colleagues from SD, three of you raise your hand at the same time. Comrade Han, I ask you to agree first, who will make a procedural proposal, and by then allow me to say something too, because I will not allow you to jump here with procedural ones, who are probably all one and the same; and you are essentially obstructing the meeting. We're gonna take this meeting down in some cultivated way to the end. I expect all of us, both from the government side, from the minister and from Members, to refrain from some personal disqualifications and to face arguments. And that's it. Colleague Han, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	President, thank you very much. With my procedural proposal, however, I would like to return a little dignity to this National Assembly, if possible. I am absolutely aware that the Minister is an intellectual, that he has an immeasurable, essential more knowledge of culture than I have, we cannot compare ourselves in any way to not speaking after education. However, I would also like to tell the Minister that you are first the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	My friend Han, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Then I am a member of the National Assembly, and I must have a respectful relationship. [[…]] And one thing I'd like to say to you is that it would be good for you to apologize to your colleagues who are offended in this way because no intellectuality, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Comrade Han, this is not a procedural proposal. My friend Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	No book can give you dignity, cannot give you respect [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	Comrade Han, what's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	and empathy. [[…]] You can't learn that, you have it, or you don't have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	Comrade Han, this was not a procedural proposal. And I ask you not to change that you feel obliged to reply to the minister, to say a few words back, not to exchange that with procedural proposals. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague Han, I said, I responded immediately to what the minister was saying. And I'm asking you to respect that, too. Comrade Koprivc [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Anyone else want a procedural proposal? Comrade Koprivc, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much, President. This debate, these insults, the Minister's discredits really don't go anywhere anymore and I'm not going to respond to it. But I would just like to answer you when you said that you don't have an influence on editorial policy. While you have the right as a minister to say anything about journalists, here I can only partially agree with you because you are only an official of the state; and the right to speak just as much as any citizen, I think you have a greater weight than a minister and therefore you should choose what you say and what you do not say. But with regard to the impact on editorial policy like this, the government directly intervenes in the field of editorial policy. Not only that, what you wrote, you asked the director to intervene in the editorial department, why, for what reason, and how long an interview was made with rapper Zlatkot. With a rapper that was critical of your Prime Minister. If this isn't an interference in editorial policy, then I don't know what interference is in editorial policy. Excuse me, Minister, this is a direct interference with editorial policy. And since you haven't received an answer to that, you've interrupted their funding. I'm sorry, this is unacceptable and it's not worth a democratic state, I repeat. And deny it, Mr. Secretary, if you can, deny it, deny it. But your goal is to head the STA to head it and put it as your press agency, as in North Korea, where it will report what will be said at government press conferences; and then all media and the world's public will see one and only picture. A picture that is consistent with you and your president. Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My colleague, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Honorable National Assembly, Minister, President! Allow me only to inform the general public, allow me your personal opinion, just continuing to defeat the STA by the government. Following instructions from the government, a working inspection is under way at the Slovenian Press Agency, this is happening now, at the moment we have intertwined the Minister in this area. So you carry out further violence against the spine of Slovenian media space. Thank you very much. This is not procedural, this was a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Yeah, okay. My friend Dejan Kaloh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State! Initially, the German proposer spoke earlier about this intellectual dimension of our minister. I think it's crucial to the Minister's answers. I judge the minister as an eruditus, and I view him as a very viewed man, an expert in the cultural field, so I believe that sometimes he is difficult to come by. Here I see, the proponents that it is possible that this manna of yours is at this interpretation, because the area needs to be known so that it can then [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	My friend Kaloh [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	You're paralyzing in your answers. [[…]] No, that's what I had to say, President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	There's no need for disqualifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	With this extensive response to the interpolation on more than 130 pages, I believe that the Minister has argued against all these evident oppositions, and in particular has responded documentedly. I think that this reply from the Minister is read as a very important document of time, in the context of the efforts of the cultural ministry itself during this period of the covida-19 pandemic. On the other hand, I also consider this interpolation to be substantively weak. The democratic parliamentary institution, with all its enthusiasm, is used and is also, but still some of the minister's violations, explicit violations in the context of legal and other legal bases, at least I did not understand. As far as the media area is concerned, I would like to open this subject first. And I also say that I am a proud co-owner of the weekly Democracy, and I will never count on anyone to have co-ownership there. Never. Not in a democratic state, a respected opposition. If you have read the study of the Faculty of Media, on the balance of the media landscape, you have seen in this concluding part that the media space is, of course, favored to the left. Researchers carried out a media analysis based on three themes: government action against covidu-19, media legislation and policy approach to the migration crisis. In the media such as 24ur.com, sil.net, rtvslo.si, daily.si, evening.com, work.si, Slovenianovice.si, Svet24.si, the imbalance ranged even between 30% and 40%. In this imbalance, it is particularly worrying that public RTV has also emerged. Of course, it is the only public media, so it is expected that in its broadcasts it will be able to face different views, it is actually balanced, as it is nevertheless committed to plurality and impartiality. But this study, of course, showed in this analytical light that this institution even stood out in its imbalance. As far as this media coverage is concerned, you mentioned some kind of NTA — the National Press Agency. Did you look at the media when you say it's a medium? Who looked at the media? I looked at it, and NTA's not in the media. What kind of media are you talking about?Oh, my God! Be at least so credible that you look at something in a register, and then you're going in this context also to a minister who made it clear yesterday that he has absolutely nothing to do with it. The person who's leading this, if she's been pointing anyone in that column, he'll be responsible for these things. Please kindly ask what the Ministry has in the context of this website; this is not even a medium, in fact, is not actually a medium. And when this left hemisphere of this national council knits about pressure, self-censorship in the media. And earlier, Mr Koprivc had said that famous winged woman that they were the proud heirs of the Union of Communists. Yeah, it's great that you're proud of this, but look at Youtube's very visual exposition of Ivan Cat – Matija, where he's actually the cameraman who recorded his show, for him, says –you're too close, you're too close. On the spot, he let him know who the boss was in that media direction, but of course one poor cameraman had nothing to do with it. There, of course, the former communist authorities put pressure on editorial policy itself. And that's clear, so don't move around here at some kind of supposed pressure in 2021. Please. And that this historic bow is now drawn, it's very cool. The minister also mentioned it several times because it helps to understand the current picture – the current images of this unbalanced reporting of RTV Slovenia. Sometimes this RTV Slovenia was called Radiotelevision Ljubljana, when it was under Cat and, of course, also under Kucan control. And yet, unfortunately, this imbalance remains. As regards the closure of cultural activities, I am discussing this area. I believe that the Minister has cooperated entirely with all anti-Korona measures, in all laws. The Ministry alone has been preparing decisions on the functioning of culture in these difficult, exceptional times. This sector, of course, suffered damage to the visa of the epidemic, this is undeniable. But the consequences of the epidemic have been mitigated, they have been mitigated in an appropriate way – with monthly basic income, the exemption of the payment of social rights for self-employed persons, the standstill of the Single Price Act and so on, including the financial payment of the film sector mentioned. But I would like to give you an example of plastic when it comes to this Mr. Rapper Zlatko. Mr Koprivc, we have a retreat in the Slovenian Dictionary. He always talks about Goldilocks, but good; about Goldilocks. One Maribor poet, self-employed in culture, relatively well-known, and I will not name her, she told me – Dejan, I am very grateful to the Ministry of Culture, I am very grateful that he is paying us contributions for health, social, pension insurance. And even in March, April and May, self-employed people in culture also received the so-called basic monthly income of a total of €750. Far from anyone landing on a pole like the German proponent said. Of course not. And when I asked her, "Honored, what do you do? She said – Every two years I publish a poetry collection and so on; that I can create under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture, that I can create freely, that I am only deeply deeply involved in these poetry lyrics, I am very grateful. She said that now at the time of the epidemic. The figures in the area of self-employed people in culture also show themselves, social rights in 2019 amounted to €9 million 386 thousand 73, and in 2021 they are projected at €9 million 908 thousand 581, which means that they have increased cumulatively by 5% in 2019 and 9% in 2020. The number of self-employed people in culture even increased during the epidemic. Why? Because they clearly see under this umbrella of the Ministry of Culture, led by respected Dr. Simoniti, some kind of cover for free and quality creation. Their number today is 3 000 46. What do other responses from the field say? You have not mastered any of the basic praises of any cultural entity that comes from your environment. I've got this in the Maribor mileage as much as you want. Many cultural institutions actually come from the Ministry of Culture. For example, the letter from the SNG Maribor Council is very short, so I will read it and it is dated 26. 2. 2021: "Dear Minister Dr. Simoniti! Discussion on the annual report for 2020 at the 20th regular meeting of the Council of the Institute 25. 2. 2021 Members and members of the Institute's Council recognized the extremely constructive response of the Ministry of Culture to the warnings and needs of the Maribor Institute. In line with the debate, we agreed at the meeting that we would like to express our special thanks to the Minister and all employees at the Ministry of Culture and to thank, on behalf of the Council of the Institute of SNG Maribor, for helping to achieve all the objectives set that have been reflected," that is, "in the form of financial and organisational incentives. The consideration of the report and the discussion on the completed year 2020 showed the understanding and support of the founder in these special times, allowing the Slovenian National Theatre Maribor to complete the business year 2020 in good condition and ready for new challenges in the coming season in 2021. Signed: President of the Council of the Institute of SNG Maribor Dr. Suzanne Žilič Fisher.« Apparently, there are better times for culture under the leadership of Mr Simoniti, even during the co-vidal period. Please take a look at the cultural stakeholders who are truthful and have no problem making themselves public. I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of Culture, from the place of the Maribor MEP, for their cultural projects. The Centre Rotovž, this urgently needed Centre Rotovž, is scheduled to start construction even this year. As you know, at the Centre Rotovž there will not only be a new library, which has had a number of years of space distress, there will also be a city gallery or art gallery exhibition, as well as a multi-purpose cinema. It is said that the exciting need for Maribor's cultural miles, also recognised by the Ministry of Culture as the development project of our wider Styria region and co-financed by 50% of the total project, read and write, will be provided by the state with as much as 12 million euros for this Maribor Centre Rotovž. Things that are very important to us, Styrians, and listen to them from the Ministry of Culture, I can only applaud. Some of the invitations were also mentioned earlier. The municipality of Maribor has signed up for several invitations in the area of immovable cultural heritage – Čeligi tower, synagogue, reconstruction of the eastern facade of Maribor Castle. I believe that there will also be a hearing from the Ministry of Culture and that we will get the Stajers at least a visual better view of our Maribor Castle, which is insufferable under the left governments. Both under the line, respected; Vasko Simoniti as Minister has proven to be working for the good of all Slovenian cultures. Although I have highlighted this Maribor domicile myself, I stress – all Slovenian cultures. This is evidenced by the fact that the record budget for 2022, the largest in the history of the country, is 237 million. It has also taken care of the implementation of the cultural euro. He actively participated, as has already been said, in the preparation of all intervention laws. And under the auspices of the Ministry led by them, they prepared appropriate decisions that responded very well to the severe situation of the covida-19 epidemic in the context of cultural activities in the country. Dearly beloved, I will send the interpolation of the opposition with my clear “against” to the waste of Slovenian political history. After today's vote, however, I can wish you a successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Get Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. For the second day, we are discussing interpolation where the Minister of Culture is interpeeled. But what we can somehow draw below the line is that culture itself has been intertwined for a year. I think that we can all agree that the cultural resource is a very important resource, as one of the contributing countries has proven to be in the past. Slovenians have a very special, self-sustaining attitude towards culture in a wider European space. Culture has taken on a very important place throughout Slovenian history and, according to other countries, a special city. What is now happening in the entire context of all the events, and also in the context of today's and yesterday's performances of the Minister of Culture, including all previous ones, is worrying because it points to a general attitude towards culture and culture, which personally seems inappropriate and to reflect non-culture. There has been a lot of talk about a dialogue that I believe all of our fellow Members are getting initiatives, letters, e-mails about how this dialogue is missing. While the Minister says we are meeting with everyone to meet, physical presence or sitting at the same table does not yet mean dialogue. The fine outline of how you imagine dialogue is also today's and yesterday's debate, as well as the debate on all the cultural committees that we had in this mandate, where there was no dialogue in fact. There was some implementation, there was a low level of discussion, and I certainly don't think that's what dialogue is called. Today and yesterday, much has been said, and even in such a short time, it is not really possible to go through all the crosses and problems that need to be highlighted. Nor is it really possible to deny all that has been said in the debates in a row, so it is only possible to mention certain things quickly. Of course, SO, even today is happening, has already been said, but it has been happening for several months. I have never heard in all this of the events of the Minister for Culture, who would be committed to a medium that would at least try to reconcile some situation, a relationship that would try to establish some dialogue between Ukomo and STA and try to calm things down and settle things. I didn't hear you. I will not repeat the findings on who the STA is and what it does, what its importance is in the process of self-reliance of Slovenia, how these people work, how many people there are employed and in what insecurity they are in because of such behaviours. Even the fact that there is not only one but two legal basis that obliges the government to fulfil its obligations; however, they do not. What does that say? What does that say? There are other things. Yes, Metelkova was also mentioned. Nor does this case point to dialogue, and this case also points to unilateral communication, underestimating, without the consideration of the interlocutor. We have also discussed this, the termination of leases, Metelkov's, or more than 20 NGOs in the field of culture, social, human rights protection and so on. Even though we can understand that the building is dangerous, that it is needed to rebuild, that it may be in the middle of a city where some urban guidelines may be dictated by a different arrangement; however, dialogue is the one that has waned. In November, the Committee on Culture also called on all users located there to be provided with some spare space by 1 June, which would have been necessary at the start. What we have also highlighted in the past was what has happened with regard to the expert commissions at the Ministry of Culture. The new regulation, by reducing the number of members of the professional commissions, by increasing the share of ministry staff in these commissions, the Minister may dismiss them whenever he wishes, even during the procedure, with the Minister even appointing the President and the Deputy Minister, has previously been elected by members of himself. At the same time, as I said, when we talk about dialogue, dialogue groups for self-employed people in culture, NGOs and so on have stopped working. The Committee on Culture also called on the Minister to withdraw this regulation last December and to establish dialogue groups. Why? As we have found in the debate, we are also warned because such interventions reduce the autonomy and expertise of the commissions and, of course, the impact of policy on them is increasing. Self-employed people come around all the time. Maybe even the minister's opinion is that he has the status of self-employed too many people in this country. But you don't do that by taking their status or not paying their contributions, which we also found that the decisions were not made, that contributions were not paid, that people got into trouble. We have heard nothing about the number of personal stories that have taken place because of this and, of course, we have also found that this failure is in fact contrary to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. There has also been no dialogue in these discussions, nor with the members of the Committee on Culture. At the same time, I would like to point out this once again on the Committee on Culture when we talk about how the Minister has stood up and contributed to some cultural action in the CAP. I would draw attention to one of the ministers' statements at the beginning of the epidemic when he himself said at one of the first press conferences at the adoption of the PKP measures that he had not proposed any cultural action since it was covered by the MGRT. He said so himself. And I've already warned you about that. The Minister will, of course, deny it now, as it was before, but the fact is, and this has been recorded and this can be looked at at at any time. Several words were already intended to wipe out self-employed people with this one specific case, which, of course, has now fallen in the Administrative Court, which was expected. However, it is not expected that the Ministry will thus take away certain rights obtained from the people; or even if it has already done so, then it is necessary to carry out the proper procedure, state the reasons, explanations and so on. And that's what the Minister's responsible for, of course. The fact is that we have already warned in advance of irregularities and of illegality in this particular case and in similar cases. The fact is, these warnings have proved to be correct. I don't think that's how you do it. Here I will also state what the court wrote in a particular case in its explanation, among other things: "The lack of a decision is so obvious, familiar at first sight, without detailed analysis." That was what the court said, and that's what we were really talking about back then. And I think that when we talk about people's fates, about their survival, it's simply unacceptable for the Ministry to act that way. We can also talk further about amendments to the statutes of various cultural institutions, galleries, museums, celebrations of excellent professional and competent leadership, of course I am talking here about Modern Gallery, Museum of Architecture and Design, Public Book Agency and so on, and the blockade of film and audiovisual production, when the approval of 31 film projects in the government for already signed contracts for projects already implemented. I think that this is an eclectic violation of the rule of law, of the principles of trust in law, and also of a kind of message abroad to recognised and rewarded film makers. So we're talking about production, which, in addition to some creative and cultural effects, also has some other multiplier effects, as I said, about production, which is repeatedly rewarded and played at home and abroad, and the creators are extremely valued in the international space. Apparently, they can't even survive at home. I know you're going to talk about numbers, you've all talked about numbers, how much more money was meant for, but in culture, they're not the numbers that tell us what the relationship is to culture. They're not. You can quote them, we can even agree on the financials. Maybe it was better than it was years ago, absolutely, no one denies it, but once again, they are not the numbers that talk about our relationship and the attitude of the Minister of Culture to culture and culture. Yesterday I also received one more than a coherent message from one respected cultural artist, who also talked about the damage these indemnities have brought with them and the harm they will bring to this country in the future. For he speaks of lawsuits that have already been filed because the funds have not been paid; and of course, these lawsuits — we all know — will burden the country’s budget. If I could just give you one example. The State's obligation to pay on 3 March last year was settled on 31 December. That's 303 days too late. 303. And then what happened? Because this remit was executed 31. Last year, the company could not apply for aid under the CAP. Why? Because officially in the last three months, she hasn't had a loss because she's got paid back for everything. But he's really lost a year. It was a year without income, and then it couldn't apply for measures. The action filed at this time relates only to late interest and the costs of the procedure, but I think that those creators who have lost so long everything that they have not received the basic things paid have the right to – and I am counting on them to take advantage of – to follow these lawsuits with compensation. Since many who have not yet received payments, some have still not been able to obtain compulsory insurance for new projects, pay certain limits and so on. And that's actually the damage that's caused them, and this damage is going to go some way. And if I also draw attention to the Slovenian Film Center and their world, the council of the agency. This is still not appointed, and until this is appointed, there are no invitations to tender for 2021, there are none. And if there are no calls, there will be no projects; and if there are no projects, there will be no work. And these people will what? Asked for social assistance? That's what we do with them. Not to speak, as my colleague Rajić mentioned yesterday, theatres. I'm just coming from the theater. The theatres are still closed. We go to churches. We don't go to theaters. I see in my home cell theatre how they took care of the measures, how they took care of the implementation, how this could all be done, but not done. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, of course, they're broadcasting online, they've learned a lot, but that's not it. And no coalition treaty, no offending and unworthy President of the Government, and no pressure so high or threat by replacing me cannot force me not to vote today as I think it is right. According to their conscience and conscience, all of my former colleagues, friends and acquaintances, culturers and culturers, who have also been in uncertainty because of the actions of this minister, are experiencing anxiety, a struggle for survival, and many, too, personal failure. That's why, of course, I'm going to have this interpolation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here the lady spoke of a series of things on which the answers are very broad and clear in interpretation. They're repeating some things that seem to me, and I'm sorry, a little incorrect about this closing of the theaters and so on. Here there is a little bit of a feeling, I would say, the crisis and the lack of action and the lack of accountability of the ministry when we know that there is a whole Europe, that I will not repeat the same thing, what we already said yesterday and what is already completely clear everywhere. It seems to me that in one playwright arch, there is a desire to highlight the inaction of the minister and the ministry, even though the situation is what they are, and we know them and I will not repeat them, of course. And you said I didn't have any part in the co-worker. Since the first session, I think it was at midnight on March 13th, and then there were these meetings all the time. I haven't been in a small group, that's true, but the government has a special co-vid session every Wednesday, and on Thursday, a normal session, when it can or will continue to do so, so I am aware of all things and practically present at all the meetings. And whenever necessary and necessary, of course, I also volunteered and defended the area of culture or made suggestions. I have to say, it's not true that I'm not active in this direction. Of course, this is done within the framework of a broader debate and culture is in nothing worse than, say, simplifying, in most countries of the European Union. There's no other way. We could find three, four cases, but basically this is where these things are straightened out, and, as you know, the picture is even worse. The measures taken have, of course, been taken to alleviate the burdens and weaknesses created by this, clearly. And we've already repeated a thousand times how much we've spent. You said I'd talk about these numbers, too. I won't. I think that the government is trying, as I probably believe, also all governments in Europe are trying to bridge this as best as possible and are looking for ways to make the way easier. In particular, in a country like us, where culture is quite much, as I would say, within the framework of state care, much more so than in many other countries. But that's what we talked about yesterday and back, and I'm not going to say it again. Regarding the STA, there were parliamentary questions Monday and here was the representative of the STA who answered. This gave Uko a clear recognition, the legitimacy that they are responsible for this field in full and, of course, they are also responsible in this regard. I now know this problem as well as others, maybe even more, I don't know, but at this point the STA has a perfectly logical position, responsibilities are clear. And the Minister doesn't have anything to enter this place and he doesn't have to. But if you want, of course, I'm with what Uk basically requires – give me the accounts, show me what it is to see what you've been doing, and then I'll pay you; so about, excuse me, talk so much, but I don't have to be deeper or I have enough other jobs and work to deal with it. WHAT falls under UKOM, under this office, and here are all the powers. As far as Metelk's concerned, that's all I'd answer. That's what we've already said in broad terms. Madam, you are not from Ljubljana, and I think that this environment, perhaps, I dare say, is a little less familiar with the configuration of that space and what it is intended for. I think the minister is right to insist that Metelkov is committed to what we have already talked about yesterday, and the previous ministers have done so in this regard, so they have been preparing the ground in this direction to say so. Most importantly, I think it seems a little inappropriate or unfair that he is at a coalition meeting in Brdo, where you and Mr Rajić were, and I think that Mr President of your party was, so Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Rajić said that in the area of culture we will have to talk somehow. The decision was or was said, I think the President of the Government has even called for some points to be drawn up, to be coordinated and to clear up the issues that concern us in this regard. And you gave this initiative, Mr Rajić, I remember, it was said as I told you, it did not happen. I think we should do this as members of the coalition. And now you're reporting these things that belong there, or I am, as a result. But well, that's your choice, and that's it. About the dialogue. All those who felt hurt about what you were saying were invited in writing, with an hour, with everything exactly when to come to talk and try to solve things in a way that will benefit both parties, so to speak. I'd like to give you a brief answer about your performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! All those of you who follow us are warmly greeted! Initially, however, a few substantive words about the work of the Minister and this government in the field of culture and culture themselves. For me, culture is the foundation of national consciousness, Slovenian culture is something that strengthens, which fosters Slovenian identity, so culture is extremely important and culture needs to be nurtured, encouraged, strengthened. This is what the current government under the leadership of Janez Janša and the current minister Dr. Vasko Simoniti are also doing. It is true, however, that we are also at the point of this national assembly when we have to ask ourselves what culture is or what culture is not, what art is, what art is not. Or to ask what culture our country as a country will promote and what is the culture that brings the Slovenian nation the greatest added value, pride and also recognition to the international standard. That is why I will take a few facts from here on out about this good year of Mr Simoniti's ministry, and I will try to close the matter down in four points. First time. We are talking about the budget, which is the highest ever, which is record, which is historic. EUR 238 million in 2021 for culture, which is still 46 million more than in 2020. This also means a significant increase in investment in culture, it is said in cultural infrastructure, of course as a result of the improvement in the working conditions of public institutions, public agencies, public funds and indirectly through calls by the non-governmental sector as well. It strengthens creativity in all areas, ensures the diversity and accessibility of the artistic and media landscape and promotes the preservation and protection of Slovenian cultural heritage as the foundation of national memory. By comparison, you can be on this graph [[shows the object]] let's see how much funding has been allocated to the culture budget in the last three mandates of the various ministers. As we can see, there are significantly more resources for culture under the third Janša government under the Ministry of Minister Vasko Simoniti. Another time. Interventions, anti-korona legislation. The anti-coronarets were intended for culture, i.e. additionally from this package, €68.5 million. Of course, the covida epidemic has seriously affected culture, and this sector has suffered greatly, and it is right that the country has stepped in here and helped, just as it has helped all the people of our country, it has helped the economy and, of course, culture. It is also important to point out that it helps and helped self-employed people. €700 plus social contributions from March 2020 onwards, and of course until the epidemic is lifted. Up to now, almost 8 million have been earmarked for this measure. Third time. We can also talk about social assistance for cultural people. This amount, which I will now mention, does not take into account any of the programme funds that individual cultural people have received. So 19 million euros were allocated to social assistance for culturers. And if we take a look at the entries, at the end of 2020 there were 3 000 258, each culturer or culturer received an average of 5 000 832 Euros of social support, social assistance from the Republic of Slovenia. Here I will allow myself to quote the minister or the ministry that represents him. They said in this context: "In the case of self-employed people in culture who have been granted the right to pay social security contributions, the Ministry will consistently respect the criteria of quality and creativity. Social corrections are in the domain of other ministries.” End of quote. I absolutely support it, right? The one who deserves this matter, who helps him to create it and then has some added value, let this benefit, let this privilege, let this privilege, get it. For those who do not, however, we have other competent institutions in Slovenia, of course if they meet or meet certain conditions. Fourth time. Priority investments in culture. Under the mandate of this government, the most important investments in Slovenian culture have also been placed on the list of priority investments in the country; SNG Drama and then the Slovenian Museum of Independence, especially in this year, when we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the independence of our country, and then in Maribor an extremely important issue of library, gallery, center of Rotovž and so on, could be listed. In the course of the debate, I will focus on the things we have witnessed in the last year. Not to talk so much about what you said yesterday, and after all today, there was a lot of hot controversy, unfortunately a lot of people weren't at some level, at least in my personal opinion, the National Assembly. I'm going to show this photo. [[shows the object]] of 4 December 2020 It's the front of the Ministry of Culture. As you can see, there are individual packs here. What's that? This is the destruction of the facade. As I said in the introductions, we are at the point where we have to ask ourselves what culture is and what culture is not. It's not culture for me. It's not a culture to me, and you're against this minister, whether you support this government or not, it's not a culture, it's not an art. If I'm trying to look through the eyes of today's interpolation proponents, but if this is going to be a culture someday, then can we expect some kind of front-painting call? You know, on a level like this, when my son's prints are like this, he's gonna be two days old in a couple of days and we like to do finger paints, not on the facades of public institutions, but on a sheet of paper. [[…]] And if you print your hand a little bit like that, and with a brush with different models, similar prints remain. Maybe he's an artist. If I put my sarcasm aside now, I will move on to another major, even more serious situation that took place in 2020, October 23rd. But this is about the maza action, which also happened before the Ministry of Culture. And I'm going to ask you, all of us, what is this? [[shows the margin]] . Is it culture? Is it culture? And I'm not going to say if it's culture, it's culture, but I'm going to say it's not even K from culture. It's barbarism, it's primitive. That's primitive. These are threats to six people who have also been listed on these tables with names and names, namely threats to Minister Vask Simoniti, threats to politicians, threats to officials, respected and respected. How far have we come? You know, it's not art, it's not culture. It's barbarism, it's primitive. Those who do this are not cultural to me. I will not point out those five names that have been mentioned on these tables, but I will raise one name, and this is Mr Miro Petek. 20 years passed — at the time Mira Friday was still a reporter for the evening — since he was brutally beaten to death, and to this day there is no epilogue of this case. Now, after 20 years again, the threat of death. Is this the art we want? Is this the culture we advocate and will we promote? It's not, it's not culture, respected and respected. And if I go one step further in this story, look [[shows the margin]] and this is the address on the public media house RTV Slovenia, on their portal: »Return of action for culture. The Ministry can peacefully delegate itself." And then this article kind of ends up like this, and I quote: "Protesters report that they will step up and do everything in the future," and so on, the end of the quote. Also in the position yesterday by the proposer, we have heard that they will remove the minister, so that they will step up their actions in the future to remove the minister. It's such an action, look. [[shows the object]] . A death threat action. What follows, after the threat of death? We have talked about this many times in this national assembly. What follows the threat of death, I ask you. What's next? What's next?Oh, my God! If you answer more than once, you may find it easier to understand after we have witnessed such works again in our country. And at that time, on public RTV, which some have been so scrupulously defending today — and also apparently part of the answer to why you so scrupulously defend it — has been paid over 2 million covid supplements. I'm not gonna say who's right and who's wrong, but I don't think everyone's probably right. But I'm not going to go to the U.S. at all. At this point, when I talk about the media, those who say that this government is blocking Slovenian media – do you read the media in the last year, two? Have you read them? Is it possible that the media does not criticise the government which has criticized it before or who has criticized this option earlier? They're even more critical! And it is not a problem that the media are critical, but the problem is that the public national media is not objective. That's the problem! Leave the private media to write what they want; if that's true, then we have corrections and things like that. But the public national media must be objective and must be at work — to whom? – people who pay these contributions. The interest of people, of course, is that they know the truth, that information is presented to them objectively. However, if they are not able to do so, at least on one side and on the other side and on the third side, or if there are more of these pages. Even in this case, respected and respected, something has been very clear. When we listen today mainly by the Social Democrats, but also in this interpretation, and in the past months, that we are fascists on this side, that we are not sure what all when you lie when you push these things, when you say these things, is freedom of speech, you say. But when we say that you're lying, that you're lying, that that's not true, that's hate speech. If I project this further, we see how you perceive democratic society, how you perceive democracy as such. And now I really think it's clear why colleague Marko Koprivc keeps saying 'democratic opposition'. It is now clear to me why – because it highlights the democratic opposition through this aspect that democracy is what you think it is, but everything else is an hate speech and needs to be suppressed. Respected and respected, and Comrade Koprivc himself says that you are a proud heir to communism. You know, fascism, Nazism, communism, that's all criminal. An evil that brought misery and despair wherever it came from. Respected and respected, I have had a lot to offer as an individual intervention, but I will not, because I do believe that in three hours and 15 minutes, as much as the debate remains of almost 18 hours, we can maintain a level of debate. I hope you can. We spoke months ago that we would be discussing on a level and so forth, but today it has been very clear that some of us are unable to do so. Let me conclude my debate with the red thread of my debate today, these are questions about what culture is, what art is, what culture is, what art is, what art is, and what art is, and they cannot be. This has also been very clear in this debate. Don't you understand that in culture, in art, it's not about whether culture is ours or culture is yours, whether some art is real or not, or whether it's right or wrong? Culture is something, art is something, it has some value, it has some added value or it doesn't. Today it has been very clear that you, in the left opposition, are proposing today's interpretation. [[shows the object]] culture, obviously. Personally, it's not a culture. And it turned out for you — some of the chairs are likely to be jumping — for me [[shows the object]] It's not art. This art is not for me personally. Apparently for the left opposition, to propose today's interpretation, that's art. It will not be a mistake if someone is willing to pay or finance such a culture, to do so. Let her. If such a culture is able to survive on a market, let it, but not from the taxpayer's money. Look. [[shows the object]] This is the culture that you clearly advocate in this Chamber. You know, it's not art. This has no added value for the Slovenian nation, for the Slovenian country, you cannot be proud of it, but I am sure that in Slovenia we have a whole range of artists and artists, culturers and culturers who, by their works and actions, promote Slovenian national consciousness that strengthens our pride, which, of course, also strengthens our country's recognition on a global scale. Respected and respected, since the current Minister, Dr Vasko Simoniti, has done more in one year of his term, much more than many of his predecessors together in the entire mandate, I will not support this interpretation. Dear Minister, I wish you to continue to work successfully on the road to the development and growth of Slovenian culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word has Masha Kociper, prepare Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much, President. Well, that's really brilliant that in one year your minister has done more than one in four years, and all together. Indeed an objective view of the field of culture, absolutely. Your truth, of course. Otherwise, in my debate today, I will focus on a few things. Actually, the debate has been going on for 15 hours, and it's hard to say something smart and something new. In fact, I can congratulate any Interpol minister who has so much time to respond in a focused and focused manner to the various debates. I don't have much time, so in addition to all the perceptions mentioned in this interpolation, and they have already been mentioned, I would focus on what bothers me most personally or what hurts. When I think about this government – which is not my government, of course, I am the opposition Member, I would like to have another government, a left- centred government, which I think is best for Slovenia, and which I think can also benefit from the broadest support from voters. Nevertheless, we have a different government, as we say, I do not support these governments, with many things that they do, I do not agree, but all these things I do not agree with, but I do, so it is in life, even through one prism, which is what this government is doing that is harmful, which is going to be able to fix and what is not. When we look at some of the personnel and the changes, I am, and there, political appointments to certain professional functions and so forth, I am comforted in my anger or disappointment that this can be changed. Unfortunately, this practice has become a constant in the country, has settled down, and unfortunately also has some negative consequences, purely financial, even compensation in the event of illegal settlement. When we talk about the staffing of one and the other, it seems to me that the left-wing governments, the left- centred governments – we haven't had a purely left-wing government in a while, thank God, I am for the left-centre government – but they give much more emphasis to expertise. We are simply not so frichs, we do not hope to give to the highest functions of people – we do not hope; I have never been in a position to do so – they do not hope to give to the highest functions of people who are politically defined, who are in the highest bodies of political parties, people who have in the past even against their institutions, who are supposed to be guided, set and so on. So there are some things that can be fixed, but there are some things that can't be fixed. Of all that's going on in this government, one of the things I'm most worried about is what's going on in the media area, so I'm going to talk about it. Because once you destroy the STA, which has been created for years and years since independence, which is one, as some have already said, from the pillars of our independence, the Slovenian Press Agency, and when you destroy RTV Slovenia, which has produced many more years, which is not only a house, tables, but employees, knowledge, archives, cameras, hours and hours of work, dedication, then destroy something that can no longer be fixed quickly. That's something I'm extremely worried about. And when the information came to us – accidentally we were the first to receive information from the SAB at that time – someone else could be preparing a change in the media legislation of the four laws of the previous year just as quickly as possible if only during the summer, when everyone is on holiday, and that the government had only conceived this public debate under the law for five days, I was really worried. Then, in the SAB and the rest of the opposition, we started shouting and screaming and demanded that this public debate be extended and so on. In a serious country, we cannot talk about seriously reaching out to the only public television, radio and television, or to the only print agency so quickly and so brutally after five days of discussion. We can't. That's irresponsible, and that's not serious. I am very happy and pleased that this debate was prolonged at the time and that this blitzkrieg action has stopped and that now, I hope, with some greater reflection and with the greater participation of the various stakeholders, I am not saying that it is making the changes that may be necessary. Some developments in some area may always require change, but they need to be thoughtful, thoughtful and, above all, must not be destructive. If you don't have enough resources for years and years, RTV Slovenia takes a fifth of the funds, a quarter, even a third of it, then you know you're actually going to destroy it. And the various excuses “yes, and then will be more competitive” and so on – see, public RTV, not just ours, any public RTV, which can be a great added value to some normal, cultivated, social states, cannot be competitive. She can't be expected to do that either, that's insulting! It meets one other criterion, it must not only spin films of light content that satisfy the widest range of people, it must have a quality information program, it must have a program for minorities, for religious minorities, for religious communities, for different cultural views, cultural shows, its own production, all that some public RTV must have. And again and again, I must also have the money to meet the challenges of the modern era. For me, one of the key questions of our time is how we as a society will respond to the growing so-called fake news, which is linked to social networks. In foreign countries – the BBC, I think French public television, but I think that Dutch – are significantly increasing funds for some research departments, research areas where experts are assessing what comes as information to the house or to the country or to the world is relevant information. We all know that there are some agencies, including terrorist organisations that produce some content. On the Internet, we could see some footage of a shooting, one of the cars that burned, one of the girls who falls in front of the camera under the shot, and then the boy saves it, which then turned out to be when you pulled the camera away, that it was all directed and recorded in order to arouse negative feelings against a group, country, political option or whatever. Here are the challenges! Here are the challenges for the public media, not the balance. So what expression is that, balance?Oh, my God! This also reminds me of some other times when it was necessary to balance a race in a country and it was necessary to balance that there would be enough Aryan race and that there would not be too many other races. Balance in the media landscape is such a wrong expression that the head aches, no. She can't be balanced. We can have private media that must be transparent, for private media to know who the owners are and so on, that the viewer knows who it's from. And when I watch Nova24TV, I know what I can expect. This is a right-wing, proesdees television of very low quality – excuse me, let me do something else – which is the trumpet of one party and one option. If I know that, and if I expect it, then through this prism, I'm watching this TV. Then when someone tells me it's independent television, all I can do is swing out loud. In RTV Slovenia, however, I expect something else and I agree here with those who confuse you when you are not independent. It is said that, for the last time, I listened to one discussion or one expert, independence is not the right expression, the right expression is expertise. I agree. We all have our own political conviction, our own view of the world, and the judges have it, but we must not show it through the work we do. Instead of destroying RTV Slovenia, a respected minister, after all the years and money that has been invested in this house, I would not collapse and start another story that will take years and years, would require expertise. The same thing bothers me when on RTV Slovenia, because this is the topic of all these conversations, in the information program, someone, a journalist obviously advocates for Levica as much as it bothers me if a journalist advocates for SDS. I'm not allowed to know who he loves when I'm looking at an information contribution. He can choose who he wants, but I demand expertise from him and that he does his job so that I don't know who he loves. I want him to give me objective information that, like the good old media reporting standards once asked me to both opinions on this matter and to even investigate. There are old American films, maybe someone was watching them when Washington Post and so on they kept standards when they had to have two sources that confirmed the information before they published when they always had to wait for the response of those who attacked her and give her an answer. That's what we should all be demanding, not destroying what we have and have created for years and years. In this sense, the programme world is an important factor for me, and the more I think about it, the more I do not agree with the exclusion of members of political parties. Because if I'm not talking about some unbalancedness, but about expertise, in addition to the individual parts of society that are represented there, also the policy that people have chosen to control, they have to control each other, checks and balances, whether these standards of expertise, neutrality, independence are respected. If there are five representatives of the policy, four should make sure that the fifth party does not dominate the programme, content and so on. And this heel has to make sure that the third one doesn't and so on, because we understand each other. This is something that I expect a modern minister to do if we find deviations in our society. And they are. In addition to one rejection, we are people, just like Members of Parliament, not all are of the same quality, as doctors are not all of the same quality, and journalists are not all of the same quality. If a journalist violates journalistic standards, obviously and constantly, then there is also some responsibility to be expected. However, if one journalist reports critically, but according to journalistic standards and according to what I have said before, no one has the right to settle for it. That's what's important to me. By the way, one of the MPs, even the vice president, was accused of having a forged diploma, whether he has it or not, I don't know, but after he was covered and so on, that he had it, and after this same college told him he didn't have it, the same TV journalist said: "They said he didn't have it, but look, I still don't believe this college, because why they said he had it before. Well, whatever." That's not right for me either. That's not right for me either. Instead of making out who has this medium and that medium and that medium, let's all join forces and work on it. That is what I would expect from a cultural minister who is the custodian in this area. Because the media, to be sure, is not something we all know, but also the media are a particularly important aspect of the rule of law. The European Union, when reviewing the level of respect for the rule of law in one country, is also looking at this area and it is not a coincidence. The fact that media and media, media independence, expertise and so on are part of the legal state is no coincidence, because they are so important. Before I finish, I could say a lot more, just two more words about the STA. I'm not going to find out now whether the minister is responsible or not, whether he is or not. For me, the Minister of Culture is also the custodian of media areas, and for me it is the fact that you have not responded to this topic and have not scolded. One, excuse me, Director Ukoma, with all due respect, will not determine whether the Slovenian Press Agency will stand, survive or not. He won't. It goes beyond his reach, beyond his knowledge and competence, and it's obvious to me that someone else is hiding behind it. It's probably not you, I believe. But the fact that it's your Prime Minister, it's also problematic for me. That's all I wanted to say, with a little break, I've been in politics for 10 years now and so impartial, independent, working media house, if I can say, like the STA – and with some concern, you'll all agree – we haven't had one. When there were never any press conferences, not just politicians, different societies and so on, STA always came. And it's always been published by SO, and then other journalists in their agencies copied it from the chair. Never in publishing the press have I noticed that we would be biased to intervene in any way in political space, as one of the political commentators said, on the political field. I didn't see that. That's why this race against them is completely incomprehensible. For the end – which is really funny – the respected minister, whether it is yours or not, is not important to me, but someone in the government ordered a survey on whether the media space in Slovenia is balanced if I say in the language I used, the analysis of media posts and so on. And then someone found out he was leaning to the left. But who was working, and who was involved in this analysis? Mr Rončević and Mr Makarovič Mr Tomšič. These 24 thousand euros could have been spent better, even if some procedure against a journalist working illegally were to be done legally and so on, they would have been better spent. The fact that these gentlemen, who are very closely connected with one option, will judge what our media space is, whether it is relevant or not, and so on, whether it is inclined left or right, is depressed and completely unconvincing me of anything. Since I'm running out of time. Media space is one of the most important areas of every independent and independent country for me, and I want ours to be professionalised as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just say that, of course, Mrs Kociprov and I probably have many different views. I'd just like to say thank you for your contribution. Really, because after two days there seems to be a contribution that could serve as a good basis for good conversation and advancement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Žnidar, prepare Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The first thing we have to ask ourselves today is why we are actually here today. For interpellations have long been no longer interpolation, but are farce and a complete waste of time. Losing because we listen to all the indisputable facts and evidence in the conspiracies and finally learn how irrelevant they are. Especially today. Clearly, today’s interpolation was urgently needed by the opposition to see at least outside that it was doing something, even if it was to its detriment. It is clear and evident that the opposition has forgotten what it has been doing to date with the field of culture and what it has actually done in previous governments. But not only will I remain in words, because I am constructive, let us take a closer look at the facts and the specific situation. If we believe in culture, if we respect it, if we work for it, then we attract it fully and treat all its stakeholders equally. And that's why we're here today. Because when positive changes are made, changes that have been proved by figures and facts, as we have heard from the Minister, it is understandable that all changes to those who have not been made before them are not by year. But not only that, equal and proper treatment of cultural stakeholders means that all those who have been fed from public funds in previous governments are no longer uncritically and politically secure, because it is of exclusive quality, and that is the quality of all those who have written public letters for years and years on the distribution of funds in the Ministry, which are top artists, but who have no political connections and who have cut them. Many of these live on the brink of survival. This is a disgrace to Slovenian culture and this is a disgrace to all governments before us. The shame of those of you who wish to convince us today that what the Minister has done in such a short time, and even at the time of the epidemic, is ripe for interpretation. For interpolation, you've matured all those you've proposed because you've proved with it that you don't know what the actual state of culture is and what its value is. We have heard that funding for culture has increased by just over €5 million at the time of the pandemic. There has never been as much extra money as it was intended for culture in the time of our government. I repeat, never before. Have you seen any of the exposed articles on this subject? You haven't seen them. You have not read such articles because they were not actually there and because they have no media interest because this success is obviously irrelevant. So much is done by the media landscape, which is said to be independent and objective for the Slovenian cultural spirit – they have done nothing or have done much damage because by misleading opinions on the part of you, the opposition, does harm to positive changes. Not only that, but also those who are being harmed are the culturers who are being used to use false information to target the government, and they are not aware of what it has done for them. Finally, it is better not to mention how all of this affects the state of Slovenian spirit, future culturers, generations that follow us, and could also be listed. Let us also look at the situation on specific occasions. Do you know what it means in practice for a self-employed person to receive EUR 700 per month of basic income? Let's say, if I compare, the fee for writing today's criticism or review for the bookwork, which you're reading and interpreting professionally, is going somewhere between 50 and 150 euros. But let's be even more realistic, from most media like RTV, the central newspapers, you'll get less than 50 euros. 150 euros is very rare, and I can say that this is already superstandard. I've spoken to a lot of Slovenian critics and those who work directly with them. Obviously, it is not known whether or not he wants to know that before the epidemic of years and years, the situation was so bad that all these writers had to work really hard to get them to scratch around 350 euros a month. Yeah, that's the culture we had. But these are not cultural people who are interested in making fun of culture, these are cultural people who have received prestigious awards for their creation. But it was not in the interest of the former governments to ask themselves or to listen to the roundtables listed, to debates, to public tribunals on the subject, because it was obviously irrelevant to them. Culture is only important to them as much as it can be used for any interpretation or activation of artists in the struggle for power. But let's be even more exact here. Even at the time of independence, it was possible to live from culture. No, it's not empty stories, it's the reality of today's top artists. You can't do it today. Now tell me which governments and how long they have been in power to contribute to this situation. There is no need for an answer here, the answer is very clear. Today we are listening to the testimony of the Minister, who has improved this situation in a short period of time and despite the epidemic. Who's making a fool out of someone now? You make a fool of yourself, especially those who are up to you who do not even know the situation in the culture of the field or know them only as much as you need public funds to power your connections. Because on the basis of all that we have heard today, it is more than obvious that there is something very serious wrong in this country when we come to the field of culture. Culture is an area where machinations are the easiest and no attention has been paid to controls in the past. I repeat, none at all. Why? Because certain political groups benefit from this. And that the situation is even more absurd, the minister's influence on the media is evident. We are here today because it has no influence on the media, because if it had, I would probably have at least achieved the good work that it has done in particular. But the good work of the media is not interested, the good work in the culture of the opposition is not interested, the opposition is interested in all that is quite the opposite, even at the price of culture. You have proved this through today’s interpolation – that you really care about the culture. But not only that, the content of the interpolation is proof that you are obviously some of the parties on eternal leave, even those who were in power. Because what the former government has done is obvious to the Minister, if we just look at the film area, that it has not been paid and that it has been regulated by the current minister, I can only say that once you start to change the media to serve the truth, there will be much less problems in this country, and it will finally be clear who works for the benefit of all citizens, to whom it is only up to power and obviously lacks knowledge. All those who report bad work to the minister because you didn't know how to do it yourself, and he did it for you, it's better if you keep quiet if you can't put the shit behind you. The other is the easiest thing to do in it, and you're experts, really, here I just have to congratulate you. And now we go to Metelkovo 6, a building where there are many NGOs that have received notice of eviction. First time. As we have already heard, this was already in the plan of Minister Prešič. Another time. This building is long - term and dangerous to stay, so we can wait a little longer and wait for it to happen so that some life will be threatened and then we answer. That's what you want. And we understand that non-governmental organisations need to survive, but I tell you, there are NGOs among us who work very well, who do not come to the Minister's money and who manage their own premises or pay their own rent. Obviously, some have succeeded, but just as the non-governmental sector has fallen apart in Slovenia, you will not see this anywhere abroad. No, we're completely unique here. Quality and excellence must be supported, not the average. Next. From the Minister's defense, we heard that in 2016 there were 825 self-employed people in culture with paid contributions and in 2019 there were 2 000 312 and at the end of the year there were 2 thousand 405. And all of this wasn't distributed properly. Data are available when artists earn more than 40,000 euros a year or more, but the state pays them contributions for their status. On the other hand, we face unemployment and poverty in the country. There has never been any control in this area, and now it is being established, which is difficult for those who would lose it at the expense of those who really need it. Where's the culture now? But we're going a little further. First of all, as much money as has been allocated to culture in this government, it's not in any of it so far. And what's the result? In front of the Ministry building comes the installation of tables, red-colored politicians, and on them the names of employees at the Ministry. The media is not surprised because they believe the cultural situation is as bad as it has ever been before. And watch out – what happened in front of the Ministry is an art installation. This is a work of art, supported by the media and artists. This is how artists express themselves about disagreements with the work of the Ministry. And with what kind of negativity? That it was intended for a culture of too much money? Is that a problem? Looks like it's actually a real situation. But unfortunately, the media doesn't report it. Why aren't they reporting? Yes, because they are "objective". But that the situation is even more absurd, we were able to read in the media and on the networks the harassment of Slovenian artists over Italian artists, who presented the banana at one of the largest fairs of modern art, which was glued to the wall by tape. Both cases of banana work were found by buyers at the price of 100,000 euros, for example. You know what followed? Slovenian artists were disgusted by what this means for superior art, that bananas with duct tape are not really artistic work. What a duplicity! Banana on the wall is not artistic work, tables, red-colored coatings that symbolize blood, and the names of employees, which explicitly suggests threat, are artistic work. Why? Because in Slovenia art is treated as beneficial to whom. We really have come a long way. Threats have become a work of art. Soon we won't even need the police anymore. It's best that there's still a performance tomorrow at the Ministry with knives, anyway, and it'll be artistic work. I'm sorry, this farce is over. If we want progress in culture, let it be clear what is next. Progress is not possible if the media are used to brainwash citizens with facts that are not, as the media do not publish real data and achievements. Next time. Supreme and quality works of art have a clear content that has not been invented since yesterday, but has clear criteria that do not change according to authority. The evidence of culture does not change with opinions by getting on our side artists with lies to serve as bribes, intolerances, and not at the time of the epidemic. The fact is that the work of the Minister is based on tangible improvements that are measurable and evident, or, in other words, interpellation is a mere fluke that wastes valuable time both for culture and for the cure of the epidemic. Interpellation is a disgrace or concrete proof that the opposition has little knowledge of culture, that previous governments have proved that they are incompetent, biased and manipulative in the field of culture. And that's being handled now. Yeah, I know, unfortunately, those who don't want real progress in culture, as our government wants. Once again, the opposition has proved that it itself is a chat, a chat and a load, without concrete facts. It's time to grow up and show that you're monitoring available data on culture. But if you are afraid that our government is taking substantial steps and progress in culture, this is your problem because you have not done it before. And, of course, it is now necessary to clean up after you in this place. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a double congratulations. First for your 70 years and second congratulations to receive an extraordinary opportunity for your birthday — finally, we were able to listen to all the facts and evidence of the success of this ministry. Bravo! Because what could be a better gift for the minister than that he had managed to obtain the most funds since his independence? For the first time in the history of Slovenia. Did you hear that? For the first time in the history of Slovenia. Minister, thank you. I believe that cultural people would also be grateful to you from the heart if the supporters of interpretation would at least once follow the truth and if our media were objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Thank you very much. She has a colleague, Violet Tomić, as her proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I have to respond to this, because this debate by Ljub Žnidar was not only unworthy of his way – “you don’t know how to clean up your shit”, “man, bullshit”, completely unworthy, forgive me for talking about culture – but also manipulative and enormous. You will tune the media to report correctly. What I have to respond to is that the non-governmental sector has fallen apart in Slovenia and is nowhere to be found. Sorry, it is the Council of Europe's view that the non-governmental sector is the foundation of a democratic society and that is why all developed European countries devote 2.5 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	My colleague, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	Excuse me? It's a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	We should have 17 more minutes, and we'll sort it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Who erased me? Deleted May I continue? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	Wait a minute. Please turn off the microphone. Five minutes off. Looks like the clock's tripping. Time for a glass of water. (The sitting was suspended at 13.06 and resumed at 13.24.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. Our services checked the watch that was supposed to show wrong. They found that, in fact, everything was fine, that it was a wrong alarm and that Violet Tomić, a colleague as a candidate, no longer had time. So, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you don't have any more than a proponent. They'll give you the exact calculation of your speech, you'll get a copy. If you think you have it, it's an important question that we need to clear up. The services have announced that they will bring in a copy, so I suggest we close the case in 15 minutes so we can check the time together. (The sitting was suspended at 13.26 and resumed at 13.34.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everything seems to be in order now, so I suggest we proceed with the meeting. My colleague Violeta Tomić, you still have time, that's how the jobs came to light. I suggest you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	Thank you, President. I had to replicate the debate of Ljub Žnidar because he said a lot of inaccuracies, indemnities and even some manipulations at the expense of the culturers, let us also leave the opposition in the style of “you don't know how to put shit behind you” and so on. The non-governmental sector that it has fallen apart from our extremes and that it is nowhere else in the world – this is not true, as the Council of the European Union believes that the non-governmental sector is the most important sector for the democratisation of society, and that is why all countries spend an average of 2.2% of GDP on it. The non-governmental sector also often takes to the state what it cannot do. Another inaccuracies and an eclectic lie is that there is no control over artists, that some earn 40,000 euros and more per year the state still pays their contributions. Excuse me. On behalf of all artists, this must be demanded immediately. The censorship is always around 20,000 euros, and if you exceed it by one euro, you lose the right to pay your contributions. In short, status is no privilege, let's clear this up once. It is an organizational form of work that allows self-employed people to set up accounts and pay taxes on them, as opposed to the religious servants you give them without proving anything. And then it goes with these self-employed documents to Ipes, where he has a registered activity, and on the basis of his decision, he carries out activities. Why are there so many self-employed people, over 3,000 you say? Because there has been an espelation of culture. Capitalism and the market economy have achieved that there are no more permanent players, directors, and also technical staff are completely overworked and are working on contracts, cease over the summer contracts and so on, so that there are no privileges, this is bloodyly earned money. You know, the culturers of course have had a hard time living before this covid crisis, but in the last year things have gotten very much worse and it seems like this government has reduced the suffering and euthanized the culture so that it doesn't mate. One such example is the film. We have found that the film is undernourished, the Slovenian Film Centre has warned that it cannot make enough films, and we have decided on the Committee on Culture to raise the funds for the film to 11 million. Everyone was pleased, we agreed unanimously, and representatives of the currently ruling SDS voted in favour, but now, as of 12 February 2021, the SFC has been without the board of directors and there are no calls and no calls for proposals and the film production has been blocked again. Let me go back to why we told the minister he wasn't doing things. The problem here is that the right hand is so ideological about culture and art. Previously, we have heard that art must promote Slovenian national consciousness – but please. Art is independent and purposeful, but it is a mirror of society. However, since the antiquity, there have been debates about whether to entertain art or to educate, and here we always have double desires and needs. We are not discussing this, unlike you, what art is and what art is not. I may like something, I may not like something, but it doesn't mean that what we don't like is to suffer and destroy. So I'm going to say that barbaric, primitive, ours, yours, these are such unworthy words that we're listening to here. On the other hand, you give 24 000 euros of taxpayer money to your own, Tomšič, Makarovič, Rončević, to do research on where our media space is. I guess it's nice to be a member of the SDS. As for what colleague Hefferle warned us about. You, Minister, are not a lawyer, that is true, but they taught us – and you are a very educated man, there is no doubt about it – that ignorantia iuris nights. We've been learning this very early, I don't know, in our teenage years, it's called ignorance of the real damage. You are signing the Treaties and you are a signatory to such harmful measures. I highly doubt you've been framed, but I think it's the other way around that you've been ordered to have your materials prepared. So you do not excuse yourself for violating all these laws, for which we have already mentioned that you have infringed them, is to say from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ZUJIK, Article 4, Article 5 of the Article 11 of the Self-employed Regulation, Article 87 of the ZUJIK, Article 222 of the Administrative Procedure Act, Article 5 of the Regulation, Article 11 of the Regulation, Article 15 of the ZUJIK, Article 20 of the Constitution, Article 7. Dear Minister, in every normal country you should leave because you are violating the laws and constitution of this country, and that is a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Ferjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I must replicate to my colleague Violeta Tomić in what context I also said that Slovenian culture can strengthen our national consciousness. If there is any work, some act of a wider reflection, is indeed good, excellent, superior, I am personally proud of it and it strengthens my belongings to the state, to the Slovenian people, to the nation and so on. As a result, I believe that Slovenian culture, good works, actions that go through culture, through art can strengthen Slovenian national identity. This has already proved to be true in the past. As for the other thing, you don't understand that it doesn't matter which direction art comes from, if something is good, if some work is quality or act, depending on, of course, art has a lot of fields, probably you know even more than I do because you're from this foch. For me. [[shows the object]] It's not art. It's a death threat to me. And for me, too. [[shows the object]] It's not art, it's art. [[shows the object]] It's not art to me. But if someone's going to do it, if someone's willing to finance it, then so be it. I told you before, it's not personal for me. So much so there won't be a misunderstanding. For me, what I've shown is not art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Comrade Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	All right, let's go. I did not want to comment on Mr Ferjan's intervention earlier, because everyone has an opinion. It doesn't have to be repeated all the time that it's not art for you. But for the Minister, the art you showed is art, which we talked about yesterday, it's clear to everyone. But we're not the ones who judge or judge art. Do you know what artistic freedom is, freedom of artistic expression? Art is not necessarily related to nationality or patriotism. Art is freedom, respectable, and the sooner you understand it, the sooner you will be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Ferjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	Just two words. Two words, as far as I'm concerned, I'll explain it one more time. Of course, art is free, but a broader context can strengthen, even if it is not directly linked to Slovenian identity, national consciousness, this pride, this recognition in the world can strengthen our identity. This is important. But in this respect, it's art for you, and it's not personal for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! I'm a little sad, actually, I'm a little ashamed that the level of discourse in the National Assembly has fallen as low as it has fallen, whether it goes to one side or the other. It's even worse to afford it, Minister, you, such a level of discourse. You're a guest in this house. This is not your house, nor is this our house, although we could say that we are the master of it during our term of office, this is the house of the people. And if there is, there should be a debate in the National Assembly at a level worthy, even if we do not agree on certain things. Your attitude towards MPs, your attitude towards culture, which is arrogant and actually bordering on some primitiveism, shows your purpose, your purpose, which is not even so much hidden anymore, it is culture by esdees and this stand is held by some individuals from SMC and Desus. I appreciate that you are the farthest disappointment and sorrow of this government, if not everyone who has been to this day. Since the only thing you and the entire coalition are saying is that culture is dedicated to a higher budget. My friend Zhnidar used to say that there was never so much money. Now, one shocker — even poofs have never been as many as they are today. We have never been as indebted as we are today under the rule of John Janša. Never in history have we had as much debt as we have in the government of Janez Janša. I thought I'd discuss it a little longer, very substantively, and in one part I'm going to do it, but I'm not going to be very long, because it doesn't even make sense anymore. Minister, I will focus on your responsibility for political recruitment in public cultural institutions. This government has replaced 803 people in one year, of which only 46 in the area of culture have been proposed to you, which does not include those I will now mention. Minister, you have prepared the criteria for leading personnel at national museums in your own way. You have never explained this to the public, at least not in a manner worthy of the function you perform. You are subjectively and objectively responsible for this conduct, as you have changed the founding acts of public institutions, thus facilitating the political installation, of course, of suitable and acceptable candidates, loyal to you and your client, certainly without any necessary professional knowledge, experience or references. We've been used to this before, and we've seen this a lot in the police department, and it really saddens me. In fact, you have also created certain conflicts because you have deceived, even ignorantly, you could say, non-hygienically communicate both with the media and with the public and with the whole area of artistic, cultural and museum creation. If we touch the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum. You have knowingly violated the founding act here. You chose a director who doesn't fit the profile, the basic mission of the museum. You also failed to take into account the formal designation framework set out in the creation act. A candidate or current director does not have the appropriate education to run such a museum. In fact, you have updated the provision on the professional representations and knowledge that the director of such a museum should have. Of course, it went to the detriment of the arguments. In fact, you didn't get the opinion of the institution before you named this person. You also ignored the opinion of the institution, which you received after all. Minister, yesterday your colleague has made it very clear to you that under the Constitution and the law you are obliged to follow the prescribed procedure and before any decision of the Director, even though it is in your partial competence, you would be obliged to take note of the opinion of the expert board and the institution. Since you ignored it, you disqualified your profession. Your decision has never been clarified, but it is and must be in accordance with your responsibility and the duties of ministerial office. That's not the responsibility. You also ignored all the suggestions at the Museum of Architecture and Design. Then we have the National Museum of Slovenia. This invitation to tender had to repeat itself. In the other you chose Dr. Paul Czar. He did not sign up for that first invitation at all, because this second invitation to tender was politically adjusted, and this is quite evident. In the meantime, you've changed the founding act for this person as well. Why? Because he's your man who nods you, who agrees with you when it's necessary and urgent. But when some of the standards that have been in force in our country for 30 years change, it is a grave violation of both the legislation and the impartiality that ministers should have. Then you called for this to be due to outdated provisions, but these outdated provisions were corrected only and only where they prevented you from setting up your people. Here, too, you ignored the opinion of the board of the institution and the candidate before you even got that opinion, which is a violation of the founding act. Finally, this man is also suspected of some corruption risk, and, last but not least, he is in violation of his appointment, at least contrary to the ethical code of the museum, which clearly states that the director cannot and must never be a collector, and this gentleman is. Many questions also arise in the next appointment, at the Modern Gallery. Also here ignoring the opinion, the modified invitation to tender, recasting the founding act in between. Even ten candidates have been applied for, and you have not decided for anyone, although both the board of institutions and the expert board have given a unanimous positive opinion for a candidate. In the meantime, the third time you repeated your invitation to tender, you staged it so that this candidate of yours could be chosen. Of course, you weren't even able to tell Modern Gallery that you were changing their founding act, they didn't know anything about it. When you drop the criteria for running such institutions, you drop the expertise, drop the standard, drop the knowledge you need to run such institutions to set up your people. I really wonder why you're doing this if you care so much about culture. My main findings are that you violated the founding acts, ignored the opinions of the councils, professional associations. You've come up with some professionally questionable changes to the founding acts, so you've set up the people of the SDS that are appropriate to you. This is a loosening of some professional competences for the political installation of candidates. To the conclusion. Minister, you're attacking, and your client is also, what we should be protecting in the first place as a minister, and that's culture, that's culture, that's culture, that's media. I think it's embarrassing. And not just because, while others are doing it, not just you, quietly, are somehow pushing this thing and using it, in fact, the entire Ministry of Culture, for some party propaganda. I think that you have not answered the key questions during this interpretation, and you have also been proven both by the court and by our arguments that you acted unlawfully, which is already a sufficient reason for your departure. You know, today's vote will be very close to your resolution, I don't know, maybe even succeed. The number that will appear today up there is a number that will certainly be higher than the votes that the opposition has. I think that this is a clear and loud indicator of both your poor work and your unwillingness, including in the coalition and this political space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word to prepare Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will not discuss the subject that I have prepared or that I intended to discuss. Since I'm coming from the economy, I've been used to it that if we made a deal, it didn't have to be repeated 30 times. What I intended to discuss is, above all, around the readings that we refer to you, Mr Minister, in the interpretation. I am firmly convinced that your colleagues and colleagues have already responded to you throughout the whole of yesterday and today more than half a day, alerting you to what seems to us to be inappropriate, what you are doing in your mandate, so I will not use it myself. Although I am not covering this national cultural assembly myself, I must say that, after I pointed out to my fellow Members in the parliamentary group that there was a lack of dignity on the committees for work, I also looked at two, three meetings of these committees. I must say, Mr. Simonita, I have been appalled, disappointed at your rude, arrogant performances that no minister, not even the Minister for Culture, should afford. In the final stage, Mr Simonita, from man to man, from the Lord of your years, who is to be, not least on certain criteria, after formal education, one end of one intellectual, expects one broad view of what is happening around him, which is perceptible to the difference that is tolerated, which is at work or in the role of the Minister of Culture, as far as I am concerned, one of the important things a man should have to represent or perform this function. But no, you're acting - I don't know how to find an expression - like a sheriff. And, by the way, on the boards, not least have you confirmed this to me in these two days, when we are also talking in Parliament. Not to say that I am deeply offended as a Member who intends to do his work in a respectful way, to be insulted, that I am, I don't know, a descendant of criminals, a butcher, I don't know what else I've heard, nor will I, because it's really hard to listen. And that this comes from a man who should be, like I said, one end of one intellectual, saddens me, I won't say another. On this occasion, Mr Simoniti, I would just like to remind you that this country did not start last March 13th, that we have been on our own for 30 years, we have some history, we have legislation, in my opinion we are a fairly regulated society, we have all the attributes of a normal democratic state. Of course, as every country in the world has some room for improvement, but what I would like to tell you on this occasion is that what you have been able to do – this government coalition in this year, or if I am more precise than a coalition, we can now say, after the last year, after the SDS has taken over leadership, with the assistance of the parties who have been rewarded for their loyalty and support by having fewer citizens or by supporting citizens and citizens in decline – that in a good year you have succeeded in demolishing this country, bringing them between citizens and citizens of unrest. You have successfully blacked us out in front of the world, not to mention that you have managed to repay this country in just a year of time, including my grandchildren, who will pay for what you are boasting about, how many millions more you have provided in all areas. But forget to tell me you're sharing something you don't have. I don't know if the situation we have is normal for you. The Minister of Culture fights with culturers, the Minister of Police fights with cops, the Minister of Education fights with schoolchildren. Not to mention to the President of the Government that he has been driven by half of the country, half of the European Union, including the whole world. You attack the public media, you pressure independent journalism. The media reporting your daily work setting up your mirror is according to your main problem with this country. Bravo, great, indeed this government, as you always point out, some of the members of the coalition, work, really work, but work unfortunately to the detriment of this country. When I said that we have a relatively regulated area of legislation, this legislation of course defines procedures in this country, including the functions of ministers, yours for culture and others. Your job is to be the first to follow these procedures and these laws in this country. Even failure to do my job – by the way, when I looked at the reports, in the parliamentary group showed me what you were writing at the beginning of this mandate, reports about what each ministry does monthly, the only ministry that did not report on what it does was the Ministry of Culture. I don't know. You must have had a good time, huh? You might as well have been working. But what I opened up this area for is that you — when I said you were acting like a sheriff — can't let you judge people and take decisions for yourself. I don't know how many times the Golden Rapper case has been mentioned. I don't know him, I don't listen to his music, and at the beginning, what I'm saying is that I don't approve of everything he's been doing, the harassment of Dr. Krek or whatever, but there can't be a reason, I don't know that you don't like taking his status overnight. Not to say that you have put many families in a difficult social situation by delaying decisions in this country. Why did you take the man's decision? On what criteria, I ask, Minister. Because he was critical of the current power? Because the STA gave him a few more sentences than the Prime Minister? This has also led the STA to a race that we have been witnessing for months. No, Mr Simonita, you are not a minister who cares for culture and culture, but I am firmly convinced that you are one of the loyal followers of Janez Janša, whom you will also appoint during your term as a museum, because obviously we do not appreciate him enough for citizens and citizens. I'll finish. About what I had on my soul, I kind of coughed. To listen today to who is the successor of someone, what happened 70 years ago in this country, and to talk about the past, but not the challenges of the future, and to hear this from a man whom I have already said several times that I would have expected, on all the criteria, that one intellectual is a broad view, definitely grieves me. Yesterday you received a lot of congratulations on your birthday. I won't congratulate you, but I wish you, like all people, all good, plenty of health and a long life. If I were you, I'd remember some of the facts. I don't know, the announcement by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia that the average life expectancy of women in this country is 82 years, men 77. And if I were you, I'd be wondering what the hell else I'm doing here, what the hell I need. On top of everything else, you are not loved, as you yourself said, dear Minister. So I would suggest that you do something good for yourself and not least for culture in this country – step down, Mr Minister, you are not fit for this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor, Mr Andrej Chernigoj is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the last debate also said a lot about the proponents of this interpretation. We will now determine who can and will not work until when, even though we have policies that have been, I don't know, years and years in this political space, some of us didn't even know where they are anymore, and of course we had to watch them. But there was another time. Let me start over. In your interpretation, you wrote: “Cultural policy under the tactics of the current government has no vision, no ethics or moral principles.” This, Your Honor, you have dared to write it down in interpretation. Of course, Minister Simoniti has responded to a number of questions on 132 pages, and this is what I am going to do by setting you a mirror, a respected opposition. During this term of office of the National Assembly, your government was under your tactics, first of all Minister of State, Mr Prešiček. It is right that we remind citizens and citizens why he left — because of a mobile phone, a serious mobile phone, and the abuse of the position in his ministry. You arranged this in the then coalition yourself. You're the one who agreed to leave. He did not leave alone, but the Secretary of State, a former Member of the National Assembly, also left. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go any further and say what happened at the Ministry at that time, but I leave it to citizens and citizens. Then came another minister, again of your kind. Well, here things get complicated and here we are, which is actually the problem today. It is not about the work or the work of Minister Vasko Simoniti, it is about who wants eternal primacy over culture and over the privileged in culture. Let me remind you. Luka Mesec – today you are together, but this is where Levica found herself, only because you always want to show strength again, who is stronger in the cultural space, but let's listen to this – Luka Mesec, as well as Violet Tomić, read the following to the then Minister Poznica. You were in the coalition together. This is: “You are setting up a staff octopus, and you are neglecting professional references and experience and support for employees.” This was an eyewitness to the left of the then SD minister. And what was Minister Pozniča Levi's response? “You represent yourself as protectors of the poor self-employed in culture and pretzels, and here you are putting yourself on the side of the cultural nomenclature, which has been in control of this scene for decades.” Well, Your Honor, here's the problem. There was a problem, and here's the eternal problem. Therefore, Your Honor, do not tell me that artists in this country have no freedom in their work. Of course they do. Citizens and citizens, I hope that we have the freedom to decide what we are going to read, what we are going to watch, what we are going to listen to. No, I don't agree that culture is its own purpose. It is easy, it can be culturally expressed by each of us, just don't force citizens and citizens to like each other's culture. Do not force the Ministry to convince citizens and citizens that each culture is good and another bad, this is not the Ministry's task. What is the Ministry's job? I'll read it to you. Among other things, care for art, culture, cultural heritage, media, Slovenian language, religious freedom and cultural diversity, respected. That's the Ministry's job, and that's what the Minister's doing. I do not see everything black, and I must say that I am delighted with those cultural creators and culturers who, in these difficult times when the covid struck, have also found various creative ways, ways, innovations and show their culture. Today we have online concerts, we have online drama presentations and so on, and citizens and citizens can monitor it. They can decide to watch this too, and the ministry has helped to do so, as it has allowed this sphere to be digitised. Yes, Your Honor, it is. There's something wrong with this culture, just not from Minister Vask Simoniti. Let me remind you, there's been a lot of talk today about the film industry. The former Minister of Culture once told Mitji Okornu honestly: “We will not give him money for the film because, for the first time, he is capable enough to succeed without it, and for the second time, because this money needs other directors who are not as good and capable as he is.” That's what the secretary said. He's the one who showed the ability. But what bothers me today is that you are imposing on the culturers, who, in fact, with a material emptiness and spirituality, are not able to approach creatively, but with vandalism, destruction and threats. Maybe it's a culture for someone. I also heard about the media intervention today. The Prime Minister of your government has called on public companies not to advertise in certain media. This is the worst intervention in the media, and we've never had an intervention like this before, and any of the ministers have responded? Were there letters written abroad? Of course not, because it worked for someone. That's why you're the last person you'll be reading here today to a minister who's a year in this department, what's wrong and what you should do. You don't even know how to deal with yourself. I will conclude with Cankar's thought: “The measure is good if we realize how many pests our young culture has at all ends and places; how many responsible flies flying around the bowl and convinced that they are invited to dinner.” Speaking of culture, let this very thought of Cankar be what guides us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	It's just a brief correction from the lady who was just discussing it. It began by appointing Mr Prešič, not the last one, but the former Minister of Culture of the SD. However, she has forgotten to say what is crucial, namely that the State Prosecutor's Office has dropped the criminal complaint about what the lady mentioned, and I am talking about alleged crimes of abuse of the official position and also of bullying. It is correct that if we say one side of the medal, we will also conclude what the prosecution has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	Dear proposalant, I was talking about a mobile phone. That's what the employees said. Mobing is very hard to prove, you know that. You know that. The fact is, the employees were just afraid that this person would come back. But I believe you have to defend her today, but that's undeniable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	It's called bullying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Andrej Chernigoy has the floor, Mr. Bevk alone is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to take advantage of this moment and first of all Mother's Day to all mothers across Slovenia and abroad. You women have taken on a lot of tasks in the co-vid crisis, but the power to be mothers is not enough. You are our greatest wealth and with your unique gift make sure that the Slovenian race will not sink into oblivion. In this place, I have come to smell with a high jubilee also to the current minister. I wish you a great deal of cultural, intellectual thinking and the successful management of the cultural ministry. At the same time, we need to groom ourselves to those who, insincerely at the time of your wax, send you to your retirement in the next step. Here these same people in the first place show great ignorance of matter and mixing apples and pears. Why am I saying that? You are yourself a minister, with this policy that you have come to this place directly or indirectly with the confidence of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of course because we are in democracy and not in any form. On the other hand, we have people who have an indefinite contract, more than half of them work in public administration and have both conditions for retirement, but still work, and they receive another 40% of the pension they have achieved, they have achieved with hard work throughout their life. These same people who refer to you from the opposition would rather see you in your retirement, while at the same time they scold you at about 4,000 jobs for which they are young. See for yourself if these are the same vats. Let's get back to your work. I would point out that you are a valued person in Primorska. We Primors have a memory and we don't forget. Perhaps not all Primors will agree with my words, but your obedience and efforts to destroy Franjo's hospital were swift and only correct despite the various concerns of others. As Minister, you have responded to the full restoration of the monument with a sign of European heritage, which is also on the UNESCO trial list. I myself have searched some articles from the past, here I have an article 24ur.com, quote some parts of this article: “The September trade in the Partizan Hospital of Franja is estimated to have caused €3.47 million of damage”, “the area of the Franja hospital soon after the disaster saw the Minister of Culture Vasko Simoniti, and the government later decided that this monument of humanity should be fully restored”, “interventions to address the immediate dangers that threaten the monument’s security properties and elements of the monument, thus costing EUR 255,000, while the recovery of the situation before the flood would cost EUR 3 million” and a quarter of the euro. We all sincerely thank you for this act. Today is the second day of the interpellation against you, which the opposition has tabled, and it is my turn to discuss only in the near end. So you're on the pedestal today, where your work is being evaluated. In this place, I apologize on behalf of the younger generation for the disrespectful relationship which appears here in the hall not only to you but also to the Institute of the Minister of Culture. At times, opposers have respected each other, and only in this way can you win and maintain your integrity. This virtue in the temple of democracy is almost gone. Now to the numbers and record budget for culture for 2021 and 2022, which was elected by Minister Vasko Simoniti. Sometimes the numbers were an indicator of how much the minister weighs in the government, you weigh about 38% more than the previous minister. Although in these times when we need to take care of the lean line, I sincerely congratulate you on this achievement. If Minister Dejan Prešiček of Social Democrats has negotiated EUR 162 million, his successor, also from the Social Democrats, Mr Zoran Poznic has negotiated EUR 237.9 million, slightly more than EUR 172.8 million. It is said that a little less than €76 million has been allocated to culture in the previous government. In your mandate – these are not the only numbers that speak to you in favour – the number of self-employed in culture has increased to 3 000 46 people, compared to 2000, which means a thousand 100 more people. The amount of funding for these cultural workers in the number of EUR 188 000 926 is once again the highest in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. This is especially important in the time of an invisible enemy. So you've been listening to your culture. Citizens and citizens, judge for yourselves whether this is a poor guardian of culture in Slovenia. Not in my personal opinion. We can't get past the Zlatko culture case when we're interpreting. Let me immediately state that the actions of this artist are inadmissible and condemned. Acting and acting at a state celebration is unacceptable to me. Taking action against the press is worth my judgment. Above all, the action against the Director of the NIJC, Mr Krek, in my opinion, is the least committed, if not more. Because this esteemed cultural worker does not think well of us politicians – and not of everyone in this Chamber, that there will be no mistake – he would take his own words, which, unfortunately, he does not hold: “If others are dirty, you don’t have to be one.” Still, I understand the minister who admitted to writing against him and making a poorly prepared decision or case that was later rejected. The opposition is making you aware of a reckless act. I see this act in the light that you have a man of good heart and you have offered Zlatko another opportunity to improve his behavior and, above all, to apologize and repent for his actions. This is supposed to be one of the reasons for your interpretation – to give the artist another chance. I would also like to commend your efforts to build a museum for the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This cultural institution is urgently needed in Slovenia. I also agree with the Social Democrats, who say, quote: "We can agree with the Government that the preservation of the historical memory of events 30 years ago, which brought Slovenia and Slovenia an independent and sovereign state of utmost importance." End of quote. They continue to disagree with the way I support it. And that is, colleagues and colleagues, democracy, not a cultural struggle. In the following place, my dear minister, I would only whisper a little in your ear so that this museum would be perfectly compatible with the Park of Military History in Pivka. With a little thought, you will realize that Slovenia must seek synergies of integration, not fragmentation. Therefore, Pivka is the only place for this most prized monument of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I conclude, I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, and especially your team, your hearing cabinet and agree that in Novi Slovenija, together with the coalition partners, we have tabled an amendment to article 77 of the Media Act. A few days ago we received a letter from Akosa, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, and I will read some clippings again. We're trying to solve this as soon as possible. The letter goes on to read: “With further delay in the adoption of the amendment of Article 77 of the ZMED”, the Media Act, “there will be in the short term irreparable long-term negative consequences on the Slovenian radio market.” We will go on: “In the event that the amendment of the ZMed will not be accepted at the time of this call, local programmes of particular importance will not be able to apply for the tender because, in the event of a decision to step on a more technologically modern and uninterrupted network by Italy, the current provision of Article 77 of the ZMed will result in a loss of special importance status in the public interest.” They conclude: “In the hope that you will recognize the importance and urgency”, as we have recognized in our government and in the ministry, “as soon as possible the solution to the problem described on the Committee on Culture, we have begun the consideration of the proposed law, which was introduced by New Slovenia in the State Election Procedure by first-signed Member Joseph Horvat and the proposaler, Mr Andrej Černigo.” This is where the appeal goes, and I expect more involvement from the president of the Committee on Culture, who I hope will do everything in order not to, God forbid, put out 11 local radios due to an unaltered single article, i.e. article 77 of the Media Act. Let me get to the bottom of this. The opposition, the investor, precisely because of your blindness and hostility, which you have printed on the paper of interpretation on the first sheet, and your application in this valuable hall I have no difficult choice. After the false fact that the Minister of Culture is guilty of the collapse of Radio Student, after the false fact that the Minister of Culture is the culprit for the cleansing of the Horn, and here could still be listed, but I'm getting a little embarrassed if the interpretation falls at the same point, and here we see that the whole interpolation falls on several points. That is why, for the third time in this esteemed assembly, I will press against interpretation this time for the Minister of Culture. Today it is not a culture issue, but today the opposition is engaged in a cultural struggle. Will the culturers be better off after this cockfight? I personally don't think so. However, I do know that the more funds that this Minister, Mr Vasko Simoniti, has chosen, mean more culture, more contributions to culture and probably higher positions. These are the facts that apply and are worth fighting for. It's over. Thank you, Minister, for your concern for cultural heritage. This last word, a cultural heritage, was mainly put more aside in previous references and in previous ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Koprivc has the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Very briefly, colleague Chernigo, when you responded to the actions of artist Zlatko, you do not agree that the conduct was inappropriate and so on. Here we can even agree or not, it is not essential, it is essential that in a democratic country there are institutions or ways to respond. If you or the minister feel that he has acted wrong, then he will turn to the courts, law enforcement authorities and so on. However, it is not acceptable for the Minister to waive the status of a cultural person on behalf of him. That's the problem. It's not a problem if we agree with him or not. I don't recognize myself in a lot of his actions either, and I would have done otherwise, but the sanctions were wrong because we live in a state of law. It's as if someone who commits a traffic accident would be deprived of a child's allowance if I caricated a little. That's the only problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	Your Honor! Surely this is the heart of the problem, the understanding of the rule of law and its role and its mission as Minister of Culture. The Minister of Culture must not allow an individual, whether a rapper or an opera singer, to interfere with his status. If he does anything on the criminal side, then he is certainly not the minister in charge of sanctioning. And this was actually answered by the Constitutional Court. Because when the minister says he's acting legally, we're here to challenge him. That's not what we're saying. It's black and white. Well, the minister's acting unlawfully because he's also interpreting his role differently. Its role is not to be a censor of Slovenian culture. And another thing, Mr. Chernigoy. Your debate seemed relatively correct, except in the last part when you said we were doing – cultural? [[...]] I didn't quite get you. This is mainly about us wanting to prevent the cultural silence that is taking place at this time. You speak very proudly about the first time in history that we have the highest budget, and it is great and no one is questioning it – it is necessary to say under what circumstances. That's the first thing. The other thing is where the money is. If we're talking about institutional culture, maybe if we're talking about NGOs and self-employed people, we're not. So, the paradox of the situation that we've been repeating for two days is that we're bragging about something that whoever's in charge of this doesn't get. On the one hand, we will devote the new museum of independence to all of us — how much? Almost 10 million, on the other hand, we have institutions that have already represented our independent history in a corrective way. And we are, of course, wondering what needs to be reopened in a culture that is fed with 9, 10 million museums with some content that has already been represented by other institutions, in which you have already intervened human resources in the last year. So it is a basic understanding of your own mission — the country, that is me. That's what we're talking about, and we're fighting it. The country is all of us. In order for the state to function, it is necessary to establish a legal order. The Minister of Culture can't cut down on an area that isn't his. In the case of Goldilocks, he did. The Administrative Court attaches what I'm telling you today. But it's the last one about the money. Great, but we need to tell the truth about the circumstances in which this happened. We have no limitations on indebtedness in the last year and this has not happened in the last – how much? - Seven, eight years. It is said that we owe not our children, not our grandchildren, but their children. This is what we are doing, and this is what we are bragging about – by borrowing future generations. But culture, if properly exploited, financially creates added value, some say 1:3, others say 1:4. And that's why it's very important where this money goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone, Mr Franci Kepa is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, that the almost 18-hour debate was announced on the interpretation of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, on my proposal, divided into two days and that we have finally moved on to at least as much normal work in this area. For to discuss and decide at 4 a.m. is at least uncultured, if not inhumane, because we do not have extraordinary or war situations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope this remains standard. Not only because of us Members, but also because of all the employees who even allow meetings of the National Assembly to be held. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Minister Vask Simoniti on his 70th birthday and wish him well. Congratulations to all mothers for today's Mother's Day. Let me take a short trip for almost 15 years. This is my second intervention against the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti. Since we have an independent and independent state of Slovenia, it has been the first time that interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Culture has been introduced. We had a debate on 29 November 2006. At that time, the government set itself rather ambitious objectives in the area of financing cultural activities, which was merely to preserve the status achieved and did not follow the origins of the national cultural programme for the period 2004-2007. Even then, the government and the ministry were mainly involved in the media. In the first place with the Public Institute of Radiotelevision Slovenia. As if history repeats itself, today RTV is joined by the Slovenian Press Agency. At the hearing in 2004, I said that Dr Vasko Simoniti would mainly be Minister for Media and Less Minister for Culture. The fact is, I do not support the current government and I am not satisfied with it. But this is our own fault, because I still deeply regret today the irresponsible resignation of the then Prime Minister, Marjan Sarc, from a good year ago. I gave my signature for a constructive non-trust and also for interpretation against the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Education and voted in this way. Interpellations against the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti, but only after the human side, I could not sign and so my signature was weakened. As I'm going to vote in the end, I haven't decided yet. Before that, I will consult with my colleagues and colleagues in our Group of Members. Let me tell you, 15 years ago, I supported the interpolation. We have implemented too many projects in the mandate of Dr Simonita 2004-2008 on my proposal and on the proposal of the Social Democrats. Of course, I do not agree with a lot of what the current Ministry of Culture is doing, and the text of the interpolation also speaks about this widely. A little more on my side, too. However, the truth must be acknowledged, the budget of the Ministry of Culture is so far nominally the highest in 2021, and the cultural euro law proposed by our government in the mandate of Marjan Šarc will also be implemented, and the Ministry of Culture under the leadership of the Social Democrats has prepared this law in substance. I would like to highlight four projects from that period. The Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, supported the cultural euro law for the period 2009-2013, whose first signed proposal on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats I was. This was also the last law on the cultural euro to be implemented. When we proposed it in 2011-2014 to continue it, the coalition, of which we were part, did not support it. The fourth law was adopted in the mandate of our government at the end of 2019 and the current government has included it in the budget for 2021 and 2022. Another time. In the mandate of Minister Simoniti, the Government proposed a European Heritage Label for the Partizan Hospital Franjo, which it received in 2007. Third time. In 2007, the flood almost completely destroyed Partizan Hospital Franja. At that time, the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provided funds for its reconstruction. The project was successfully completed by the government of Janez Janša and Borut Pahor, which opened in June 2010. After the destruction of France in 2007, for example, Ludmila Novak, on behalf of the then coalition partner NSI, proposed only the setting of the marking in the parking lot and the facilities in the ravine, not to be restored. Fourth time. In 2006, the Ministry of Culture, led by Dr Simoniti, supported and co-financed a project on the registration of the heritage of mercury and the city of Idrija on the list of the world cultural and natural heritage of UNESCO. The entry was confirmed in 2012. What does this have to do with today? Depends on the viewing angle. Everyone can interpret it in their own way. I didn't contribute the signature to the interpolation. Ladies and gentlemen, two intentions of the Government and the Ministry of Culture, which I do not agree with. Some others have already been talked about by my colleagues and colleagues. About the STA, it is called the Slovenian Press Agency, and about the new museum of Slovenian independence. The Slovenian Press Agency is too important to be able to quietly monitor its destruction. With an indisputable historical role in establishing the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, for which one of the fundamental conditions was independent, autonomous information to the domestic and foreign public, the State of the Slovenian media environment, which is supplied daily with hundreds of news, and at the same time a key state infrastructure for communication with foreign public. The only founder and associate STA is the Republic of Slovenia. It is the responsibility of the founder to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the STA and to provide adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the annual business plan of the STA. Even the Government’s legislative service warns the Government that the suspension of payments or the non-conclusion of the STA financing contract may result in the reduced or suspended performance of the public service provided by law and thus constitute an illegal situation. Therefore, the call on the Minister and the Government as a whole to ensure the financing and smooth implementation of the public service of the STA, in accordance with the STA Act and the 7th Anti-Korona Act, and respect its autonomy and editorial independence, without delay. Finally, something small about the new museum of Slovenian independence. Let me just say that we don't need a new museum. We do not need a completely new institution with an entire administrative apparatus, director, deputy, accountant, accountant, secretary, janitor and so on. Instead of a new public institution, we need to narrow down the professional, organisational, financial and spatial capacities of existing institutions dealing with recent history and set up a new, ambitious exhibition if you want even a monumental or wide-ranging exhibition about Slovenia's latest history, an exhibition about the emergence of Slovenia's independent and independent state. Together we should connect the Museum of Recent History of Slovenia, the Park of Military History in Pivka, the Military Museum of the Slovenian Armed Forces and some important provincial museums and such an exhibition project together. All Slovenian museums, including private collectors, could cooperate with the material. I think this is a better solution than the establishment of a new public institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr. Franci Kepa has the floor. Prepare the mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the Minister of Culture! Congratulations on the high jubilee. Congratulations to all moms today. Today's interpolation is unnecessary and wasting time through windows and doors. The saying says we're stealing time from God, and we're stealing money from the country. There's a lot of readings in the interpolation. One of the findings is the incorrect opening of cultural institutions at the time of the epidemic. Almost all sectors, including culture, have been affected by the virus. After the first wave, cultural institutions opened up in May, and the second wave is longer and we are all missing cultural events live. Some things are happening online, some have been happening on a very limited scale live, but I know this is not the same. The fact that there is not enough funding for culture is irrelevant. On the contrary, as many assets as in 2021 and 2022 have never been earmarked for culture in the history of Slovenia alone. For 2021, the budget earmarked $237.9 million and for 2022 229.6 million. In previous, more left-wing governments, these amounts were lower, so that today's interpellationers could be grateful that the Minister of Culture Simoniti has negotiated for such a large amount of funds. You can see that this government has great respect for culture. In the epidemic, the country has taken care of all cultural workers through the CAP, including self-employed workers with a monthly basic income of €700 plus €400 for pension and social insurance contributions. The perceptions of workers in the film industry and others who were not paid at the date are unjustifiable. Anyone who has ever worked on the market for the supply and demand of services knows that the transaction is not always paid on the date of conclusion or signed contract. First you have to get a job on the market, then you sign a contract where the date of implementation and the date of payment are given, and many times in practice the contract is not realized. There is no payment at the date despite warnings to customers, but also to a lawyer, paid either by delay or by extremes. Cases include corporate bankruptcy and personal bankruptcy. The Ministry of Culture has made an effort to pay all services in accordance with signed contracts. A good 2 000 is in the state of such self-employed in culture, which the Ministry regularly pays contributions to them every month also outside the epidemic. And then there's the pension. For some, for exceptional credits, for cultural, I don't know, some special activity in the country, even this is some extraordinary, huge privilege, I don't know which countries know that. It's only possible in culture. Whether the number of these alleged beneficiaries is high or not, the fact is that this number has so far increased almost annually. It is right to make an order here to be aware of each individual and then decide who is truly entitled to be paid by the State and who is not. Cases were discovered in the near past when this was paid, and the alleged beneficiaries also had various companies to which additional funds were pointed. I, too, will touch Mr Čordić, if he can be called Lord, because of the profanity of the honor guard at the celebration, the profanity of Professor Krek. I don't know if they're entitled to that kind of funding, but I don't think that's why. Many of these are also able to make their own money on the market for contributions or at least part of it. There was no condemnation of threats to the death of Culture Minister Simoniti and colleagues, Journalist Petk, Alenki Gotar, Vesni Jurca Tadel, Mitji Iršić and others. They were not even convicted of vandal exploits on the facades of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister's own house. In these so-called performances, a reddish color was used, which adds weight to these threats. Such and similar threats began prior to the oath of this government last March. I myself have been threatened with red paint on the facade, so I fully understand how the minister and all the other participants feel about it. These threats should be condemned most decisively and the perpetrators captured and judged fairly. These threats are, among other things, a reflection of the cowardice of the perpetrators, as they usually happen at night. However, the interpellations are circumscribed by Uk because he did not pay the STA account. Ukom simply did not conclude a contract with the STA because they do not receive the relevant documentation from Director Veselinovich. The discovery of the Rog factory - cleaning was carried out by MOL or the Ljubljana mayor, so the ministry has nothing to do with it. And it's a good thing they did it, there's been a lot of insurrection and dirt. In the past, anyone from the Left could have said that they had been there and that they knew each other, suggested some sort of cleaning action in the Horn in the past. Usually, in the spring, these cleaning operations were carried out. It is also right that some artists find room to work elsewhere, perhaps not only in Ljubljana, but also in other places in Slovenia. Metelkova – Resistance due to the move of NGOs, the plan for the museum is made, whether it's an idea or a construction permit or a project for execution, I don't know. This could have been done under former Minister Prešičko, said under the former minister. I will not support interpolation because Minister Simoniti has already worked well in the past, it is working very well now and I am sure that he will make every effort to help and develop culture in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get ready for Mrs. Jerca Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I don't have much time left, just one minute 44 seconds, so I'm gonna try to be brief. I will support the intervention against the Minister, we will support it all in the parliamentary group, and the president of our party of mags will also come to the vote. Alenka Bratusek. Why would we support her? Also because Thompson's concerts in Maribor are especially important for this government, even because this government wants to force fascist singers into our places and thus deny the long tradition of openness, tolerance and peace, on the basis of which our city lives and celebrates. We're going to support the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Jerca Korče, Mr Tomaž Lisec is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings, respectable minister, colleagues and colleagues! There was a lot of talk, a lot of words about what culture is, we even heard about what a healthy culture is, what a true culture is. One of the colleagues from Nova Slovenije even said that he supported everything that is ours, everything that means that we are Slovenians. We've even heard of nationalism. But the fact is that culture is a diverse, broad, very broad concept, and the fact is that culture is a reflection of the diversity of our society. If we are honest in our words, that the diversity of society is important to us and that we respect it, then we have the same attitude towards culture and do not judge or condemn it, but we are looking for a policy point of view in that we create the conditions for culture to work. Here are some main findings on the existing minister, so it is not the one who creates the conditions, but to interfere with the field of destruction of what this government or existing coalition, of course with the leading SDS, does not like. Of course, it's not a target for the entire field of culture. Without reservations, I believe, we're giving the thesis that somehow you're disturbed by that advanced or that I'm going to say a more liberal part of culture if you want. I even hope to say that this is the part of culture that sometimes requires deeper reflection on what the artist wanted to say with his creation, and that sometimes this thought can be harder than a quick perception of a message. But it is true that such a culture may mean less to us in the present than it means through the prism of a view of the future when our craftsmen have a view. Because the fact is that the past also teaches us that a number of artists in their current creation were incomprehensible at the time of his life, but through the prism of the past, they were written in gold letters. Finally, we are talking about what is at the heart of the problem or in which the SDS party sees the main problem, and this is that a certain part of culture is looking for its own purpose in developing critical thoughts. This critical thought really bothers you. I think that politics, politics, and above all, the Minister should accept this critical thought, hear it, question in particular what this critical thought is saying, not try to silence this critical thought. It may even be too idealistic or utopian, but, Minister, to some extent, I even believe that you could look for your role in being the voice of culture and transferring to the government impulses coming from the field, but you have taken or have internalized the role of someone who is merely the executor, some statistician at the Ministry. I think when you look back at your work, you'll be sorry for some of the things. There is so much interference with the words about autocracy, which we sometimes read to you, but the fact is that the highway wants peace, it wants a critical thought from civil society, from the cultural sphere, from art, it doesn't come from art, and it doesn't come from democracy, but it's that belief, in the cultural world, in civil society, by anyone, that belief, that freedom of thought, that creation, that action, that all of this understands as something important for the strengthening and development of a democratic society. And here is the difference between perception of the current policy and perception of the majority work of both Slovenian policy and Slovenian society. Yes, you have formed a government, Mr Simonity has become a minister, of course the authority is so legitimate, but no one has given you the legitimacy that the social order changes to the extent that it wants to extinguish a critical thought, anywhere and at any time. This is the main observation, which is essentially the basis of everything that needs to be revealed to today's interpolator, because the material evidences that have been explained in writing and have been presented today or even yesterday have not been answered, but the basis of everything is that the desire to suppress critical thoughts is greater than understanding what democracy means. Politics, we shouldn't all be judges in here, judging, mutilating, talking over one culturer or one piece of art. We can't understand anything, we can't go to one gallery, we can't monitor the creation of one artist, we can visit or not visit the theatre, we can go closer to Drama, we can go closer to the folklore event, we can hang out on a party, or we can go to the Slovenian Youth Theatre or we can go to the Old City Electric show than the Maska Institute. We are different and we are rich in diversity. I apologize if you hear my words, the coalition, then the minister, who is also a historian, understands where such aspirations and such words are, after distinguishing and dissuading, that some healthy part of society and some unhealthy part of society have brought them. I have a very easy decision to make and, of course, I will support this interpellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! Third interpolation in 10 days and always the same thing. What happens to the Minister with the highest budget, this time the highest budget for culture in 2021? What happens to a minister who additionally draws 68 million additional funds? What happens to a minister with an increase of 83% in the payment of cohesion funds than in 2019? What happens to a minister who has an additional 87 million European grants planned? And what happens to the Minister of Culture, who extends the deadline for the implementation of projects, also for the completion of operations from cohesion funds? Interpellation. Obviously we're at a time when the reward for good work is interpolation, and here are the main reasons why I won't support interpolation. In addition, the second day, when we listen to 10 complex readings on the interpretation and when no substantive debate is held by the representatives of the applicants, we are no financial consequences, why we will not be satisfied with Minister Vasko Simoniti's leaving. In the last two days, there's been a lot of talk about what culture is. Today, I have read the views of both candidates and of the members of the Left, SD, SAB and LMŠ. Such a low level of culture in the National Assembly has not yet been told at any interpretation. We are talking about the interpretation of the Minister for Culture, from the interpretation and from the views of the four groups of Members, and we are talking about total non-culture. A culture based on lies, deception and insults is this so-called liberal, advanced, deeper-minded culture, with deeper messages and a more critical culture, which is drawn up by the interpelling proponents. Apparently this is a culture supported by the KUL Coalition. The blood on the road and the culture in the institutions you support, for which Mr Vasko Simoniti is not to blame, but for the fact that certain groups have left the Horn, thank your supporter, Mr Zoran Jankovic. There are also some substantive matters that I will not speak in an empty language, unlike the applicants. First fact. Performing cultural services, how nothing was done for culture. Facts. The funds for self-employed people in culture have increased by €700,000 despite the pandemic. The possibility of additional intervention funds, totaling €7.9 million per month of basic income, €700 per self-employed person. Programme funds were paid to public institutions, although the programme could not be implemented due to the pandemic. Slovenia was one of the first countries in the EU to open galleries, museums and libraries at the initiative of the Minister for Culture at the end of the first wave. How social contributions were not paid to self-employed people in culture – this reading may be particularly interesting for those who live in the economy and for whom you are supposed to call an urgent meeting of certain committees. The registered funds received from the budget of the Ministry of Culture by the self-employed in culture amount to only 19 million for social culture in 2020, on average EUR 5 000 800 for social support. Respected self-employed in the economy, have you been on such a good path as the culturers under the leadership of the Minister of Culture, who is being intertwined today? They weren't. We hope that economic operators will benefit from this in the CAP9. Next thing you know, attacks on freedom and independence of the press. This so-called freedom and independence is defended by those who are descendants of those sociopolitical workers whose spirit is still in the way of state media institutions such as RTV and STA. The fact that the right hand or the minister of culture is confronted with an attack on freedom and, above all, on the independence of journalistic work is a shameful work in interpretation. 90% of RTV is constantly attacking, whatever's minimum right from the middle. For all editors – and this is also part of your interpretation, your staffing – we know where they belong intimately and politically and familyally and otherwise. And you're talking about how this minister and this government are attacking independence and how they're recruiting. Whom did Mr Vasko Simoniti or this government appoint to editorial policy such as RTV? But if we're talking about the S.H.I.E.L.D. If the CEO of STA pays his employees badly, it's not Vasko Simoniti's fault. If this Director of the STA takes care of himself, this is partly the fault of the Minister, who will have to solve this too, but we know how matters are handled, where one of the parties does not take legal matter into account. And you, today, the other parties who make it clear that they do not comply with the legal provisions, are clearly violating the law. In short, it's typical leftist. If he doesn't do something wrong or do something wrong, his finger points to his right. We could talk a lot more about the media, but I think Mr Kaloh has poured you some pure wine about how you fight for freedom and independence of journalism, but we all know what is at least in public news institutions, particularly such as RTV and STA. What's commercial doesn't interest me because every owner has the opportunity and the free will to do what he wants. But I would like to remind the Minister of what I have already warned him about. Self-employed in culture – something where the minister will still have to roll up his sleeves in this mandate and at least make a review of the status of who is actually self-employed in culture. Perhaps it would not be bad for a part of Mr Simoniti's team to look at who, for example, has applied for self-employed status since 2015 and who has received and who has not received the status. I'd come up with very interesting names, but I'm not operating with them today. Because of the political name of the people who received the status, it gave a political negative opinion on why someone cannot be self-employed in culture. Those self-employed who are primarily those who whistle, how their rights are being denied — these two graphs [[shows the object]] Dismantling them. The level of funding for self-employed people in culture is increasing. The daily allowance for self-employed people in culture is growing. These are the so-called poor self-employed in culture who, unlike those who experience and survive in the market, perceive completely differently. There is no way that I can support the interpretation, where we have the minister who has chosen the most resources for culture in the history of Slovenia, and where we have 10 complex ideas about why the minister must fall. The Minister must stay because he has much work to do in the field of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	You can see that we are not wrong about what dictatorship the minister is working on. They're ordering him what he's gonna have to do. Your Honor, I applied for status in 2016, and I also received it, but if today were to happen to still be self-employed in culture, you would probably suggest that the minister revise my status and take it away from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Gradually, Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	Madam Vice President, please warn the predecessor that, for the first time, she should read the magnetogram of my speech, stating that I did not specify anything to whom the minister should give the status to, to whom he does not give it, just to make a review. If you are entitled, Mrs Sukič, I am happy to grant you the status of self-employed. If you meet the conditions. There's no part of these self-employed people. So please, Madam President, for the second time, warn the debaters not to use the replica for something that no one has said at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Now I'm gonna warn both of you. First, Mrs Sukič, because she replicated in a work where she was not entitled to the replica because it was an additional debate. However, the second part of the warning was for you, Mr Lisec, because you did not make a procedural proposal, which would be in relation to the Rules of Procedure, but you referred substantively to the previous replica. Now we have one replica that's really going to be a replica. Dr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Member Lisec, although a long-standing Member, a political scientist and a previous expert SDS, clearly does not understand the social and constitutional view of the media landscape, because he said that he was not interested in private media because the owner could do whatever he wanted. For the time being, this is not possible in Slovenia, and I hope that it will not be possible either, because there is labour legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has been given by Mr Boštjan Koražija, prepare for the Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Madam President, thank you very much. Now I'm just gonna call the minister, let's talk about books and libraries. This too was not addressed or underemphasized in this interpretation, says the issue of books, the publication of new books, the opening of bookshops, the opening of libraries, or the operation or purchase of library materials in the library, in general, I think about the educational library. In view of the fact that you have repeatedly stressed today that the small or budget available to you at the Ministry of Culture would expect you to invest a lot more in the books, even when it comes to publishing books, and also investing in libraries and other such matters, or to face it yourself, and to deal more specifically with some new plan or continuation of librarying, bookkeeping and these things after the coronation. That's why I'm voting for your interpretation. In fact, what many of you have learned today is that the gentleman is very intelligent. I completely agree with that, sir is very intelligent. I'm afraid you've been in the last 18 hours, and I'm gonna say, you've been playing some court fool here in front of us, because I know you have a lot of professional answers that you could give us, and you're not. That's why I'm voting for your interpretation. I know you like books, I know you like libraries, I know you like literature, and those answers were all before they were all in this direction. I would also like you to focus more specifically on books, including reading, in the future as Minister – depending on how this interpellation will be done today – even in this direction it has been insufficiently done by the Ministry of Culture and on your part as Minister of Culture. However, given that you have already started at the Ministry of Culture, even when it comes to the Book Agency and also the purchase of materials through libraries, indoctrination of a system, it also bothers me that you are already directly determining what the library is supposed to buy or what content it should support. That, I'll say, is such a hidden agenda for your political party, which you, too, represent as minister. And I don't agree with that. If we are talking about plurality, let us be plural and stand for open society, for open spirit and, above all, for much reading, for various readings, of quality, of course. That's why I'm voting for your interpretation. Please step forward from this stage you've been presenting to us these last 17 hours and introduce yourself to us as an expert, as Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grimes, get ready, Mr. Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! It's Mother's Day. Motherhood is the most important and beautiful mission, so to all mothers, to all who will, and to all who want to be, sincere congratulations for Mother's Day. And congratulations to Dr. Vask Simoniti for his 70 years, for all he has done so far, as well as congratulations on his patience. Because for what he's been experiencing for the last 20 hours, it takes a lot of energy. Special congratulations are due to the Minister, because he finally went after the destruction of the shed of the Slovenian culture of Auggie, everything that went under the auspices of the Ministry is said to have been. And I just expect and hope that he will continue to do so successfully. Perhaps you should exchange some villas for these with more legal knowledge and experience. However, for Slovenia, for the Slovenian people, this is of exceptional importance for the Slovenian country. Because it is a matter of Slovenian culture. What's the situation here, it's nice to say what happened the last time we had an interpretation. All I said at the time was that it would be good for education to get rid of leftist indoctrination, from LGTB to all other cultural Marxism, and then it was a storm. And I have said nicely what we would need to replace it with – with more Slovenian culture, with more Cankar, with more Prešerna, if you want with more Drag Jančar, with more people who have international reputation and who are certainly part of Slovenian tradition and true Slovenian culture. What many have shown today has one common denominator. What do you think the common denominator is, if you want, rats in the arms of Bezian Mary, the cross you burn on the beach, even though it is a monument to the dying in a tragic accident at sea, and then the tearing or squeezing of the Slovenian flag, not to mention any dogs or anything else? And all of this is sold under Slovenian culture, even awards are awarded for it. This, sorry, with culture in that original sense of the word, the most noble, the most positive meaning of the word has nothing in common. Or irrigate the cross into the urine and everything. What's going on here is cultural Marxism. What is cultural Marxum? This is an attempt to destroy everything that forms the essence of one nation. For the last time — and I am asking again today — I have raised the question of multiple values. The value followed by the great Slovenian creators, the real creators of Slovenian culture such as Prešern, Drago Jančar and all others, when writing or drawing, depending on the artist, their works. It's a question of values. Just like it is about values in politics. That's what this whole circus is all about. The first objective of this interpolation is to make a mistake on the part of the government, to try to prevent the Minister from continuing with his work, with his mission to strengthen the true Slovenian culture, where he was successful, to increase the money devoted to it. Very successful. And on the other hand, of course, he is afraid that everything that has gone under the auspices of these finances will, of course, be lost by false culture. It's about money. It's about a lot of words, like it's always about money. It is also about what I was talking about, about the issue of values and about the issue of cultural Marxism, which is trying to destroy Slovenian culture, Slovenia, all that the cultural ministry is really dedicated to, preserving, strengthening what is its task as a true Slovenian culture. That's actually the purpose of this interpolation. For this reason, I am completely opposed to this interpretation and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	The honourable Member has again enjoyed the outbreak of his literally racist statements, where he would just draw some people, and he does not understand that we have different people in society and that we also have different views and approaches to culture. No, he would have smothered all the other views, only let his own live. Yesterday you slept, my friend, a very important conclusion, just the minister who, for a change from you, is an intellectual and a secularist, for example, a performance with the dog Maja Smrekar and her opus in general regarded as an extraordinary work. Read his interview in Siolo and you'll know on Novi24 TV that you're past him with such pathetic observations and judgements of contemporary art that you obviously don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter, Mr German, has the floor, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	I'll be right there. I'll be right there. Isn't it interesting how the extremists who actually look at each other, both left and right, meet and name each other and point to each other? That's exactly what it looked like from the Magi interpretation. Grims and his way of looking at culture. Culture should be liberated. Culture is not nationalism, culture is not patriotism, culture is freedom. That's what we talk about all the time. In any case, none of us, not the Minister or you or any of us, will judge which culture is appropriate and not and which culture is good and which culture is bad. We can do this in mathematics or in sports, we can't do this in culture. We also want to share this thought, this free thought of culture, in our debate on the other side. In fact, culture does not limit, culture frees. And the sooner you take over, the easier it will be to understand culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, Mr Primož Siter has the word, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is being prepared as the final debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Intermediate Affairs, hello! We are in the midst of the biggest crisis, a crisis we have not seen in at least the last 30 years of our country, is both health and social, economic and, of course, cultural. I am personally offended, deeply offended, as I monitor how government representatives like to talk when they talk about culture, about paying contributions for, say, self-employed people in culture as a privilege. We are at a time when politics must be the one who makes decisions on how to ensure survival for people. We know that very many people have found themselves on the brink of survival, self-employed in culture are certainly one such group. That is why it is so much more painful when we talk about emergency survival as a privilege, or the minister has already expressed himself as well as the government representatives that they are adherents, that they are hung on a state manger and so on. I, colleagues and colleagues, object to this whole line. The contributions paid amount to basic survival. They mean that a person can go to a doctor, meaning that a person does not have to worry about having a piece of bread or not in his old age. That today one self-employed person in a culture is entitled to this bare survival, to visit a doctor if you want, or to care for at least about an age of tolerance, something that, for every employee in the country, has to work hard, to prove, to prove with his success, either by book editions, reviews, appearances, performances or music editions and so on and so on, the list is long. And those responsible at the Ministry are looking and drawing signs or yes or no. And that. If it meets all the conditions for it to fit into a group of self-employed persons to whom the State grants paid contributions, i.e. some basic survival, this will be calculated at the level of the minimum wage. So, the self-employed in culture is automatically sentenced to a minimum payment of contributions, sentenced to social, health and pension security on the basis of minimum wage. It's hard to talk about privilege. We're talking about a huge survival. The privilege is far above that. On the other hand, though, it is interesting to look at or ask yourself, who today, even in these times of crisis, does not have to prove at the time of the government that it is worth surviving to have something that is, in effect, a privilege. Spirituality, colleagues and colleagues. Representatives and representatives of the largest religious institution in the country. Not on the basis of minimum wage, but priors and without any evidence on the basis of average wages. Self-employed in a culture with evidence, a clergy without evidence based on average wages. People who are already in one way or another, colleagues and colleagues, employed in the largest firm, which has the largest capital background, which has the most real estate, which is justified by six tax categories sitting on gold and has a billion-dollar budget, but also has such selfish and brutal greedy leadership, which even refuses to provide its people with survival. To these people today, the state, to say the least, takes its ass away to the leadership of an organization like that. The link between the state and the church — Who? The Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture is the one that must ensure the separation between the church and the state, not the integration between the church and the state, but the realization of the constitutional category, which is secularity, the separation between the church and the state. This same address, colleagues and colleagues, keeps self-employed on the brink of survival, and those who don't fit it, sweep off this edge by taking their status. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will of course support this interpretation, I will sign under all the points, most of all because I do not see this link of state – culturers, this bridge, which the Ministry of Culture and Minister Simoniti should be, instead I see a deep gap under this bridge. As a human, I wish the best in the future, but I sincerely hope that this future will not be in this ministerial chair. I wish him a peaceful pension, something, I'm afraid, which many self-employed people can't count on today because of his guilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mrs Alenka Jeraj will also be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. First, something about the fact that the culturers are on the lamb pole, on the edge of survival, and so on. You yourself wrote this in the text of the interpolation, quote: “Despite the right to pay contributions, a quarter of the participants in a living culture lived below the poverty threshold before the covid epidemic.” So, all the governments didn't set it up before, now you're asking Minister Vask Simoniti to do it at this time. At the time of the SD ministers, they were below the threshold of poverty, and you were in no pain at the time, and now you are in pain. It's a media sighting. You mentioned earlier a new press agency that is supposed to appear – not listed in the media, even some inspection procedure is initiated against them or being investigated. And it has nothing to do with SDS, which has been said several times. This has been established by an individual and works with what he wants. Akos found a whole bunch of concentrations, 18 inspections of radio stations connected to Radio 1 network, a whole bunch of violations of the Media Act, but no action. Let me remind you that Akos is in charge of Mrs Mucha, for which the country has paid 750 000 euros to the European Commission because we have not prepared any changes to the laws. I have also asked quite a few questions, because the lady is in violation of European directives in this area and so on, but nothing happens because nothing should happen to us. These are media concentrations and these are problems we have and violations of media legislation, not 2% of Hungarian capital in Slovenia. There's something else about the media. Ms Maša's colleague had difficulty researching the media landscape by the Faculty of Media. Let me read you some findings. “Most media governments treat strongly less favoured than the opposition; in some media, 24ur.com, RTVSLO.si, Council24.si, there was no way to detect one single contribution that could be written from a position that could be labeled to the right.” “We cannot go beyond the profile of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and so on, and some other media such as Siol.net and Giurnal24.si have a much more balanced attitude towards Slovenian political actors, as well as much less emphasis on ideological connotation.” “The government is generally treated much less favoured than the opposition, the left positions dominate the right and those on the top are strongly favoured by the left political options and views that are considered left-handed in the Slovenian space. In this sense, we can say that the left half of Slovenian politics has a much stronger support in the media space than is the case for its right sex." Just two more sentences, and this time from Dr. Dejan Verčič with the FDV, professor of communication, you may believe him more, says this: “Slovenian media have a traditional structure that we can call continuity, and every time the right government comes along, they experience it as the end of the world. This is a major problem of Slovenian political life because the left political space on the right does not see as legitimate." We've heard that a few times today. The big problem with Slovenian political life is that the left political space on the right does not see it as legitimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We have a replica first, Mr. Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u191	Thank you very much. On behalf of all cultural and cultural people, artists and artists, self-employed in culture, I have to take this assumption from the MP that they do not live on a sheep's wand. The majority of cultural creators depend on such or other activities in the event sector. The event sector is the first to shut down and will be the last to start again. In the meantime, where? Right there, in silence, nowhere, in limbo. The Ministry of Culture did not offer them any concrete integrated action, to culturers and culturers, and they were the ones most indignant during the crisis. This is also the main criticism of the opposition's role as Minister of Culture or Ministry under his leadership. Just like his colleagues and colleagues in other ministerial seats, he just doesn't listen, he doesn't hear the profession, he doesn't hear the terrain, he sits in his office and he thinks about how he's out there. The calls of culturers and culturers remain somewhere in the German limbo. That's why it's time for the minister to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, I ask you to sit still quietly in your seats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All present! Even though we've been here for so many hours and we've already told each other many times, and we've also responded to certain obviouss, I can't help but overlook the fact that today's ruling party is drowning what was yesterday's so infamous national press agency, which was created as an alternative to the STA. Mrs Jeraeva said in the microphone that the SDS party has nothing to do with this project, which is not true. Mr Ernekel has repeatedly stated that he is a member of the SDS party. More than that, I mention only one guest on his portal, that was Mr Kovšca, President of the Council of State, and many of your visible members, even on the website, have appeared as supporters of this project. Mr Ernekel, the responsible editor of the so-called National Press Agency, called himself a fascist. That's a fact. We've all seen this, heard it, the media reported it. The embarrassment is great, I believe, on your part. But as long as it suits you, you cultivate this ideology, when this ideology becomes unacceptable, then you beat it up and run away from it. These are facts and cannot be denied. In your case, it would be wiser not to say that the SDS party has nothing, because every time we renew this fact that Mr Erneck is a member of the SDS party. So much so, Vice President, we'll clear this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Please, let's just calm down a little, because we're almost done here. I believe we can pull it off without incident. Mrs. Jeraj has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u195	Mr Matjaž Germany can repeat the lie a hundred times, Mr Ernekel is not a member of the SDS party. I don't even know where he'd get the information on who our member is. I guess we know more who our member is and who's not our member. That's a lie. He's not a member. He worked for New24 and so on, but [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u196	Mrs. Jeraj, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u197	Yeah, it's procedural because he lied. And she's still lying. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u198	No, that's not a procedural proposal. I believe you are aware that this is not a procedural proposal. And please, if we can finish at this point. Mr. German wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u199	As a proponent, Your Honor, I still have a lot of time, so I can tell you about it, but we'll be done in no time. The gentleman himself said that. Not you or me, but the gentleman himself said it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the representative of the motioner of the interpretation are given the floor. Dr. Every Simonita has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the end, I can say that the second day of this interpolation was much more peaceful than the first day. Some representatives of the opposition even spoke substantively in a way that allows for cooperation. I certainly reject those representatives who speak here in the way that they are representatives of all self-employed cultures and cultures, or even that they are representatives of all cultures because they are simply not. I can tell myself that I also reject interpretation at all points that have been given here. We have given a thorough, comprehensive response to a densely printed 132 pages. These answers are based on facts, on precise and reasoned answers that tell any reasonable and unburdened interested person that the evidence in this interpretation is completely unfounded and is worth a complete rejection. I have noticed that those who have accused have repeated one and the same, in fact they have not read these answers at all, which I resent if I say so. I believe that I am working for the benefit of Slovenian culture and that I am not working for the benefit of various interest networks and lobbying. I hope the interpolation goes down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Violet Tomić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Culture is not a hobby, culture is a work and requires a certain education, status business environment and then pays taxes and so on. In short, here the minister acts as if he is above the law and “State, this is me”. We've heard a lot of lies about culturers, but I have some things to tell you again. A large number of self-employed are not because this status is so attractive and attractive, but because of the unacceptable espionage of culture, because capitalism and the market economy have strongly cut into this sector. That is why this sector has been in poor skin for 30 years, as you yourself have identified. Now, at the time of the epidemic and at the time of the almost complete cultural silence, this sector would really need someone to understand who would help it, even in the record budget with which you boast. That way I could use a more delicate, more affectionate minister. But unfortunately, we have a boring official who hides his incompetence with cynicism and arrogance, who hates culture and culture, who is on a mission of total destruction of the cultural sector – of course, according to his great leader – and acts more like a great censor than a cultural minister. In short, what do we read to the Secretary of State? Mostly and not least breaking the laws, ingorantia iuris nocturnal, ignorance of the right to harm. You can't argue that for the contracts you signed, you didn't know you were breaking the laws because you weren't a lawyer. That's what the court warned you about, then the Keeper warned you. A block of Slovenian film. There's been a lot of talk, and here's the blame entirely on you, at least now, in the second round of blockade. The attacks on the media, we know what happened to RTV, with the four you brought in, which you're supposed to discuss in four, five days. We barely stopped it. In short, I also heard the obvious how many meetings of the Committee on Culture were held during your ministry. That's a compliment to me. We called for meetings, two, three a week, because it was necessary, because we had to warn and stop the worst. Then the stepmother's attitude towards self-employed people in culture, when you explain that self-employed status is a privilege and, of course, a failure to respect Article 7 of the Constitution, which speaks of the separation of the State and the Church. Today, we have seen discussions about how — church officials you tell them — have a privileged position toward self - employed ones. Self-employed people receive 60 per cent of the minimum wage, which means a miserable pension at their age, even though they pay taxes and work hard all their lives, while religious employees, as you say, have been sold by the largest corporation in Slovenia, which does not pay taxes and has forests that you have returned to them, even though they have been sold centuries ago. In short, there are contracts and you as a historian could find them. So, here, too, you knowingly violated, you would say, the laws and work in the sense of your ideology. In short, self-employed 60 percent of the minimum, religious employees, as you say, 100 percent of the average wage. Unacceptable inequality before the law! 138 million euros to which you boast that you have guaranteed; yes, you have received a record budget first in your hands, and then you have dissolved the fiscal rule, which you, the SDS, in your previous mandate, have been the only one who voted against the fiscal rule at the time. But you've come up with a domestic argument that a housewife can't spend any more than she deserves and so forth. In short, you have a small and free hand in debt. Our children and grandchildren will pay their debt and do not let them know where that money will go. In short, a self - employed or culture will not have much to offer. Perhaps you like this culture, as we have heard on the side of your Members, the tearing up of Auggie's barn, and the choice of what is true culture and art, what is not real. Normalization; oh, my God, save us from your normalization, God help us! Last but not least, the promotion of hatred by the SDS party over and over again. Here we have heard of the descendants of the slaughterhouses, today, in the 21st century, we are talking about who is partisan and who is belogardist. Unacceptable. Young people are interested in the future, my dear. And you're talking about a device, which means that the winning side or this anti-fascist side should bow down and apologize to the fascist. You're attacking Antifa – as I said before, Antifa only bothers the fascists. Where we came by encouraging hatred to be today [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] But you can listen, fellows, please, I have a closing statement. Where We Came With the Promotion of Hatred [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, SDS can't listen if it's not what they want. With the encouragement of hatred, we have come, respected and respected, to the moment that the government's yellow jackets in the middle of Ljubljana burn the book of the famous youth writer Svetlana Makarovič Čuk on the stick and say that her works belong only to the trash. We came into a phase we don't want, all because SDS keeps beating culturally more. You're also fighting NGOs. There's enough of your Janez's tweet and it's already been erased. For example, when they report about Zlatko’s rapper in one tweet, it happens to say that the STA is Slovenian shame, in the other tweet requires how many characters the STA reported about, and how much more is considered as a visit to Orban. And you know, Goldie and STA, you've both done a hell of a good job on him. Non-governments, top creators, have been attacked, but Europe and the whole world know them. Through international calls, they have made a significant contribution to the budget and are supported by all countries as well. You throw them out, you compare them with sloths, eaters in the budget and so on. And who are you really throwing out? Center for Slovenian Literature; Slovenian film producers who make excellent films that are known all over the world; NSK society, Leibach, the most famous Slovenian group; Škuc, En Knap, festival Kino Island, City of Women, Dance Theatre Ljubljana, Institute for Contemporary Art Ljubljana, Ustanovo Gallus, Vertigo and so on. In addition, forget to say that these people bring a lot of money and a lot of fame and recognition to our country for a small contribution. Never doubt why the St. Stanislava gets almost 70 million, because the Institute of Anton Martina Slomška almost 40 million, Ozara almost 30, the Institute of St. Francesca Saleski 24 million, St. Cyril and Method 12 million, St. Joseph 11 million 319, and the problem is 10 million contributions to self-employed people in culture who live on it, cultural workers who pay taxes pay bills. I will say, Minister: shame, shame, shame. That's not the kind of minister culture needs. And that is why today, colleagues and colleagues, not only is the Minister's interpretation of the right option, but today we are deciding whether, after we have lost the economy, we will lose the culture. And then, my dears, we're gone. Today, on the Mother's Day, as you have seen on many occasions, is, at least for me, a historic moment that will be recorded in memory, not only of the culture, but of the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Your Honor, to find after the third interpretation of the week, that, after the interpretation in which we participated and touched the Minister of Education, in the second part of the Minister of Labour, none of the two had as much rude dialogue as we had seen in the last two days. Unlike in the past, when we exchanged opinions between Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups many times, and where these cartoons were drawn, this time the minister was, in contrast, the one who was leading in ridicule, ridicule, insult, humiliation. So, the Minister of Culture, who should not only understand culture, but live it, has actually presented us with a show of nonculture with the desire to simply set up another face. So according to the principle of the position of power, of course with its arrogance, hidden for some image of a great intellectual, with all due respect. The rhetoric was – thank you Minister, for this gesture – quite sharp, which was possible to see in the media as well, and I think the residents and the residents have made a good impression on who they are dealing with at a time when not only you, but also us, are very happy with the record budget as it has not yet been. But with a unique paradox that culture has never experienced before. So on the one hand, we have a whole little, on the other hand, we have culturers on the other hand who are on the lamb chopstick. This is an understanding of culture in a way that we should understand time and space and understanding about freedom of culture. So, freeing culture in a way that we don't limit it. Of course, the rhetoric of some was also that it was defined to be a good, bad culture, an attractive and unappreciative culture and to a culture worthy of the support of the country. So, dear fellows and colleagues, we are in the midst of the greatest cultural silence since independence. Today we have the opportunity to end this cultural silence. Not only do we thank the uncultured minister, but we actually liberate the culture in a way that will finally be free. Therefore, I ask you, those who still feel not only for patriotism, but especially for culture, that you are voting today for interpolation and thus will vote for Slovenian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on interpolation. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellations propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, extend its non-trust to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, and discharge him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group colleague Lidija Dijak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the LMŠ, we believe that cultural policy must not be based on the minister's position, who he likes and dislikes, but must understand the needs of society, ethical norms, dialogue, understand that it must allow for the coexistence of all cultures and cultures of different ideologies and not raise one and prevent those who bring critical thought into social space. It is undeniable that the ruling authority tries to instill its values in our society’s social systems as well as its subsystems. In one year of monitoring the many creations of focal points in the field of culture, it has become clear that sincere dialogue and integration is undermining perfidious and through the prism of democracy is extremely low and dangerous strategy leading to parallel reality, which we did not decide in Slovenia 30 years ago. In the LMŠ, we are convinced that Minister Simoniti should step down because the Maciavelist methods used to achieve his objectives are dissension in society and, of course, negatively distort public interest in culture. In the LMŠ we are convinced, Mr Minister, that you are also destroying an independent, non-ideologically free media space, that you are politically recruiting, discrediting journalistic work and journalists, and also exerting political pressure on independent media to the point of their break. A good example for this is STA and RTV. After everything we have heard in the last two days, we will, of course, support the LMŠ interpretation, which we have also signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. The 83 Members and Members present voted 43 to 40. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I find that the Minister for Culture has not been voted on. This concludes this agenda item [[Applause]] And for fifteen minutes, I interrupt the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 16 hours 15 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 15.56 and resumed at 16.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u209	Your Honor, we continue our session. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal to initiate the procedure for Supplement II. CHAPTER OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE DRAFT KINGDOM LAW ON SUPPLEMENT II. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me inform you at the beginning of this point, by which it is proposed to enter the sign language into the Constitution, that this point will also be interpreted in Slovenian Sign Language and subtitled. Subtitles can be found on the Teletekst Radiotelevision of Slovenia. In particular, I also welcome all those who accompany us today through these two options. The draft act was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft act, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Flower Uršič, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u210	The Union of Associations of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia. [[turn off the microphone]] For communication and language and the right to use them, they are essential for the social inclusion and exercise of the fundamental human rights of all citizens and citizens. The need for communication and language and the right to it are essential for man to be human. Deaf persons, deaf persons, persons with sluggish implants and deaf deaf persons do not have the same rights due to hearing impairment, have no equal opportunity to exercise human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and international documents. The importance of communication and language is so essential to these people's quality of life that they can exercise their fundamental rights so that, as I said, they can be people who live as we do who are hearing. Persons with hearing impairment in Slovenia use Slovenian sign language for communication. Slovenian Sign Language is a special visual sign system for the use of arms, mimics, faces, eyes, lips and body movements. The Slovenian sign language is also different from the sign languages of other countries. Slovenian sign language has its structure, which is not the same as Slovenian Slovenian language and therefore Slovenian cannot literally be translated into movements. The Slovenian Sign Language also has a different vocabulary, the mother tongue, the indigenous language of the deaf community in Slovenia, completely independent of Slovenian. Unlike Slovenian, it does not belong to the Slovenian language group. By placing the Slovenian Sign Language in the Constitution, Slovenia will become the fifth country in Europe, which will have a sign language in the Constitution, and the first country, which will also have the language of the deaf, for Austria, Finland, Hungary and Portugal. Thank you to the Constitutional Commission, thank you to the expert committee appointed by the Constitutional Commission, for the work done and for the well-prepared justification for further consideration of the proposal to place the Slovenian Sign Language in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. To dejane jedan for presentation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u212	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished Members, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, Mrs Tolmačka and the rest of the present, welcome! At its 2nd meeting and at its 4th follow-up, the Constitutional Commission considered the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the second chapter of the Constitution of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer, i.e. the representative of the Government, introduced the proposal to supplement the Constitution with a new 62.a., which will regulate the position of the Slovenian Sign Language at the constitutional level. Hereafter, the Constitutional Commission established an expert group and opened a discussion on the proposal to initiate the adoption of a new provision of the Constitution. Members of the Italian and Hungarian communities pointed out at the beginning of the consideration of the proposal that the text of the new Article of the Constitution should also regulate the position of the sign language of both national communities, which was also attached by the expert group. In the first opinion, following the support of all its members of the proposals to initiate the constitutional audit procedure, the government proposal amended and proposed to the Constitutional Commission that the Constitution should ensure the free use of the Slovenian Sign Language and Sign Language of both national communities in areas where the latter also live. The debate then raised objections that Slovenia should also take care of the development of the Italian and Hungarian sign language used by the national communities. The first phase was followed by a discussion on the completion of the text of the section, which listened to the needs of a small group of our citizens, for deaf people and the use of their language. In an additional opinion, the Expert Group adopted comments by the members of the Commission to ensure that our country develops the sign Hungarian and Italian language used by the national communities and subsequently entrusted the competent authorities with the development of the Slovenian Sign Language. In that opinion, it also presented the situation of the deaf and the eligibility to ensure the use and development of their language at constitutional level. The Expert Group has thus drawn its conclusions into a revised proposal by the Constitutional Commission on the draft Constitutional Law, which has been unanimously supported both by the members and at the meeting of the Association of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, which has participated in the debate from the very beginning, and at the last two Co-operations of the Deaf Dlan Association. The Constitutional Commission, in view of the clearly expressed will and the communication by the representatives of the proposer and the members of the Commission, has called for the speeding up of the process of adopting a constitutional audit proposal on the basis of the proposed position of the section on the draft Constitutional Law with the aim of adopting a new 62.a Article before the start of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. In this context, Slovenia was among the first countries to ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the time of its first presidency in 2008, and at this time Slovenia could join the four countries that already regulate sign language at the constitutional level and was the first country in the world to add the right to the free use of the language of the Deaf. Dearly respected, the Constitutional Commission has unanimously, with a need for more than a two-thirds majority of the members present, adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to take a decision, with the same required majority, to initiate a procedure to supplement the second chapter of the Slovenian Constitution by writing a new Article 62a, and proposes that, following a discussion on the draft Constitutional Law, a Member and Members should adopt a proposal for a position of the Constitutional Commission on the draft Constitutional Law, which is an integral part of the report. Let me mention that the proposed text also has full support for the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia and the Association of Deaf Dlans. It is their members who rightly expect the country to listen to them by our decision and to guarantee them, by writing into the Constitution, at the highest legal level, the free right to use their language and to ensure the development of the Slovenian Sign Language and the language of the deaf. I am therefore convinced of the positive decisions taken regarding the continuation of the constitutional audit procedure. Allow me to conclude by thanking all the members and members of the Constitutional Commission and the Section for the work done so far, as well as the services of the National Assembly, which allow today's consideration of this item at the meeting of the Assembly and all our meetings of the Commission to be interpreted in sign language, thus allowing the participation of the users of this language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and Yuri Lepo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, distinguished Mrs. Sign Language Expert, colleagues and colleagues, I wish everyone a nice day! One of the most important duties of a modern and advanced country is to ensure and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Constitution is a fundamental legal act in the Republic of Slovenia, whereby all persons must be guaranteed human rights in an equal manner and establish a basis for equal opportunities for all. We can say that at least indirectly the right to use sign language has already been introduced into our Constitution, in Article 62. This Article states that everyone has the right to use his or her own language and writing in the exercise of his or her rights and duties and in proceedings before public authorities and other bodies performing public service. It follows from this that, through this Article of the Constitution, the realization of equal opportunities for the deaf in all areas of social life is already ensured. Since the Slovenian Sign Language is not constitutionally defined as either an official language or a minority language in the territory of Slovenia, its use is regulated in the first instance by a cover law, this is the Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language. It specifically identifies the rights of users of the Slovenian Sign Language in all areas of life. The possibility of using sign language is in particular a prerequisite for the full enjoyment of the many rights of people with disabilities, such as deafness and deafness, and in particular the right to education and training for an active independent and quality life in society. Communication, understanding and communication are key to social inclusion. As presented at one of the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, an analysis of the situation, despite the fact that the deaf have been allowed to study on our soil for 120 years, has shown that only one percent of the population has been highly educated. Regrettably, too, deaf people do not have a professional education to compete successfully in the labour market. However, service or work is the basis that provides decent income for survival and independence from social transfers. It is a fundamental human right, which, as has already been said in the introduction, is to be exercised only with equal opportunities, both in the field of education and later in the active employment period itself. These are just two important circumstances that affect the quality of our lives, but they are the basis for improving the quality of life in general. The sign language is enshrined in the constitutions of four European countries: the Finnish, Hungarian, Austrian and Portuguese Constitutions. The Republic of Slovenia would become the fifth on the European map if today, by a two-thirds majority, we ensure the start of the constitutional change process. In the course of the proceedings before the Constitutional Commission, the text originally tabled by means of a designated expert commission and initiatives and comments by Members and other experts has already changed slightly. In the Desus Group, we welcome the last text for supplementing the Constitution by recording the explicit recognition of the freedom to use sign language and to ensure its development. In addition, when the sign language is entered by the deaf, the Constitution specifically mentions the language of the deaf. We do not have any reservations about this either, as it is simply a matter of not letting go of any way of communicating to those who for health reasons and the common way in which we know is disabled. Since two minority languages are already recognised in our area as official languages, of course it is not necessary to include sign language in the field of the constitutional category in Italian and Hungarian. Whether we will stay with the proposed text is still a matter of further discussion, which will take place if we confirm today the decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution. The Members of our Group will of course be pleased to confirm this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u215	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u216	The Constitution is an act forming a state which is the highest act and which must contain only those fundamentals that establish the country, its inhabitants, its citizens. When we were working on the Constitution, the Constitution was done by poets, and because it was done by poets, it was a bad constitution. There is a lot to change, to correct, and so far the Constitution has changed ten times, but never in those important matters that would strengthen Slovenian statehood, but in some marginals, and we are also talking today about a matter that does not fall under the Slovenian Constitution. We have a law governing matters, we have adopted a resolution of the European Parliament, and that is enough. Enrolling this language in the Slovenian Constitution is the first step towards the entry of the Croatian minority in Slovenia, the Serb minority in Slovenia, the Albanian minority in Slovenia, the Zambezi minority in Slovenia and more. I'm saying, once again, it doesn't belong in the constitution. The Constitution is a second act, a different act and the content of this proposal is already adequately regulated. If we look around the world, we see that sign language is constitutional matter in four countries – Finland, Portugal, Austria, Hungary. Other countries know that this is not constitutional matter, it is legal matter, and the legal matter in our country is very exact, accurate and specific enough not to have to be written into the constitution. I don't know how most people look at the Slovenian state and statehood. Very bad, partial. Some of them because they're recognizable, willing to push anything into the constitution, others who are afraid to show their opinions are quietly sneezing, but when you meet them in the hallway, they say, fuck it, because it doesn't go in, but you know what, we have to be in. What do you have to be for? Are you responsible to the country or are you responsible for the current preferences of some or to look pretty to the public? In one way or another, the public will find that you kicked into the darkness of abuse by the National Correctional Institute and made a huge mistake. On the other hand, the Constitution does not provide for the sanctity of property. Any thief, any burglar can come into the house, steal anything from you, not only if a man breaks it when he gets it, but if he falls down the stairs and gets hurt, that burglar can sue the owner. I'm an asshole. I'm a jerk. If we look at it, did anyone remember to put it in the constitution? No, he didn't remember. The Italians passed a law stipulating that anyone would break into an apartment, that the one defending himself and defending his property was not liable because he defended himself, and even if he overcame that thief well. But no, we're a country that's going to take all kinds of goats, all kinds of goats, but to protect the one who's acquired some property with a job and he's cutting the deal, and then some thief comes in, steals it all, and he's going to be punished for defending himself and his family and his property. If we look at the sections of these criminals, what they are, we will come to strange results; that 80 percent of these criminals from foreign logos and those from foreign logos are protected by criminals. Instead of getting lawyers who are supposed to be here in parliament to deal with this problem – no! In order for someone to build a monument, we will now, you will – the Slovenian national party will not support it – you will write this language of the deaf into the constitution. Aren't you thinking about what's gonna happen next? No, you probably can't even think about it. First, because you can't, and secondly, because you don't care. But one thing, some in the Slovenian Parliament don't care what happens to our country and the highest state charter, is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know what to say. It's hard to say more. In any case, I speak to the deaf, not only the deaf, but also to the foolish and unexamined, who do not know other constitutions, who think only of the present benefit, one way or another – either politically or otherwise – and are willing to deny the basic postulates. Indeed, there are many of these basic proposals in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and we should correct them. But no, we're not gonna fix that. We're gonna share candy, pre-election candy, so someone gets 70 more votes than they would get otherwise. But let me tell you, even those who use sign language, are also thinking, and many of them are thinking significantly more nationalally than most of them in this national council, which I'm increasingly thinking is this circle or this round formation because there are no four-year circuses. Sad to say, this is the way to tell the truth. It's hard to accept the truth, and there's a lot of people after silently accepting it, but as they say, it doesn't have the balls to react differently, to say, but I'm not up for it. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are like to say what we think we are not hiding behind the Flossules, not hiding behind some of the Paravans, and not attaching ourselves, as some say, to populist statements and demanding some of the things that need to be done just to make peace in the house. There will be no peace in the house in this way, for in this way there has never been peace in the house. Once it all blows up, and when it does, there's going to be a lot of things going on, probably a lot of good. But there must be a lot of good things to bring into this constitution. This proposal is certainly not good today and we will vote against it in the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I would also ask everyone else to focus more on the agenda and also on the level that comes to this national assembly, even though that point has previously dropped quite a bit. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Felice Žiža will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u218	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, distinguished secretary of state and other guests! Egregio vice presidente della Camera di Stato e un cordiale saluto a tutti and presenti! Tisztelt Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we know what the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms really means. The public use of the mother tongue is essentially one of human rights and is the foundation of the existence and development of each community. Of course, this means for us the official and equal use of the Italian and Hungarian languages in the territory of the municipalities in which the indigenous national communities live. Therefore, with regard to the amendment of the Constitution, we are in favour of supporting the proposal to supplement the Constitution for deaf, deaf, deaf, and people with slugger implants, in order to ensure that the Slovenian Sign Language can be used in public. This is a language for the said communities of citizens and citizens of mothers and indigenous languages. Since deaf, deaf, deaf, and sluggish implanters are also among our members and members, we welcome the right to free use of sign languages in the Constitution in Italian and Hungarian as well. Of course, as has already been said, the Republic of Italy and Hungary will take care of the development of these two languages themselves. In the Italian and Hungarian national communities, we sincerely thank you for your support and cooperation in adopting and supplementing the Constitution, especially to the President of the Constitutional Commission, mags. To Dejan Židan, expert group, Members and all others who have actively participated in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u220	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! At today's session, we are talking about things that Slovenia has already committed itself to in the international legal field. It is a question of the right to communicate, it is a question of the right to inclusion, it is a question of creating equal baselines for everyone and everyone. This is a constitutional norm, so we are bound by the Slovenian Constitution and ratified international acts. Today we are talking about values; values like safety on the one hand, on the other hand, health, which are comparable. Especially after we realize how precious they are, how important they are when we lose them, when we don’t have them, and when all the problems we usually face are not. This is really about these people today. In Slovenia there is a large proportion of citizens, many who have serious health problems. One of the worst forms of disease, some unfortunately have had it since birth, is hearing loss, vision loss, or the worst combination, which is the most fatal for humans, even both at the same time. As a rule, hearing loss is also related to speechlessness or difficulty, which is understandable. Today, this is why we are putting an end to the procedure that we started at a time when I led the Constitutional Commission alone and have been dragging on for two years. It is a question of how and in what way to express your will to make that decisive gesture to show that we also want to allow these people to participate equally in society, to fully integrate themselves as people in all the activities that are possible in society and, of course, the first condition is to make it possible or to establish communication with each other and, of course, with all the other members of the Slovenian society. For them, it is a sign language used by deaf or deaf people and a special language used by deaf people. For quite some time after the establishment, the expert commission needed to prepare an appropriate solution, which we consider to be a good basis for further work in the SDS, as it addresses both of the issues we are talking about today. It is therefore an expression of the will to be enshrined in the Constitution, that we are all equal members of this society, that every citizen, every citizen, makes a valuable contribution and that on the other hand, society is committed to allowing it to participate fully in any area of social life to the best of its ability; it is said, in a comprehensive and human-worthy manner, to respect the possible way. For this reason, we fully support the proposal before us in the SDS and we will also vote unanimously for it. Since this is about a relationship with the human being, a relationship that is actually based on some fundamental values, I would like to point out in my name, on behalf of the SDS Group, and on behalf of the entire Slovenian Democratic Party, also the symbolism of today. For today is the mother's day, and motherhood is the most important and beautiful mission, and only in the light of this mission is all we speak of this moment, we have talked about and we will talk about it, it has its meaning. For this reason, allow me, on my behalf, on behalf of the SDS Group and on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party as a whole to all mothers, to all those who will do so, and to all those who would like to do so, to sincerely congratulate for Mother's Day.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of Ambassador of the Group List Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u222	Nice hello to you all. I welcome my colleague. I am pleased and honored to be able to translate into this temple of democracy today. Today we have actually heard two different approaches, and it is true that there is also a discussion and that it draws attention to some views, various views, especially when the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is changing. Whether the entry of the Slovenian Sign Language used by such deaf, deaf-blind, all with snail implants and all users of this language is justified or not. In 2002, we were convinced that no, because the Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language would actually solve all the problems and put questions and dilemmas under the point where everything will in itself turn into the right direction. From 2002 to today, we have found that the law has been misinterpreted many times, and many institutions have said that there is no legal basis. Finally, the development and education of children and adults is still taking place in the same way as was done practically before the use of the Slovenian Sign Language. No progress. Moreover, because we have adopted the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language, more educated in this population, we have not actually reached them, as a percentage. However, we did not achieve in particular because at the time we did not count on great resistance to be created mainly by those who already have university education and skills in the field of surdopedagogics and pedagogy at different levels, both at primary, secondary and higher education levels, where they teach children in this area that they will actually have to meet with a language that they should learn and know. To date, most of them have not actually learned this and the interpreters of the Slovenian Sign Language have not been able to fill this gap and this deficit, which this staff has actually had in education. Moreover, deaf students who used Slovenian sign language even through court had to choose the right to make reservations to the university so that they could use Slovenian sign language interpreters. But we all know that if the Slovenian nation wanted to fight independence, identity and, above all, one identity, it had to bow first to its language and give it the right place. In fact, people who use and worship their own language do the same, which is a Slovenian sign language. First, he needs to be given the right place. You know, in 2002, the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenians actually thought about changing the Constitution, and then they got an obvious message when the constitution was clear, human rights were clear and article 14 was very clear, it was written there, we were all equal before the law. Well, of course that didn't happen. Even more, just 10 years before this event, before we adopted the Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language, she was shy not to say in the institutions that it was Slovenian Sign Language because she did not really want to and did not want to admit it. They talked about the verbal relationship of total communication and, of course, tried to divide the two groups that fought not only in the Slovenian space, even in the former Yugoslav space, if we are looking at the development of this language, that it is really about those who want and are convinced that children should be taught only by speaking, is said to be some kind of oralist, and that they actually claimed that Slovenian sign language in fact reduces the intellect and the possibility of developing speech. In short, so many of the stupid things that have happened in this area have actually led to the realization that this law will fix everything. By amending and entering the Constitution, of course, this language is given another dimension and another category; it is given a constitutional category. And more importantly, by entering the Constitution, each language will also be given the opportunity to be the right language if it is to be the right language, which is the recognition and right to develop that language. If you look very closely at the text, talk about recognition of the use of language and research, it is said that this language is developing. Of course, you need the expertise to do so, and it also gives you a long - term basis and care for that language. I must say, I'm disappointed, seriously disappointed, that some people think they're deaf, deaf people with snail implants, deaf people. Those who say that and that these are issues that do not belong to the Constitution forget that this is the case for Slovenians and Slovenes, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am deeply disappointed that in the temple of democracy someone can divide the nation into minorities in terms of secondary classes. That is why, of course, I can confirm that I have spoken to various constitutional lawyers and that opinions have been shared there. If some were convinced out of their sincerity and conviction that the Constitution was written so that, in fact, all human rights could always be found in the constitution, other constitutional lawyers said that, of course, the culture of the nation, how it wanted to accept and understand it. And it is true that what has been said today is that countries that do not have it in the constitution can take better care of these minorities, minorities in the true sense of the word, that they are less than those who hear them. Of course, this thing is self-inflicted. But we had years and years to prove that we simply couldn't do it. That is why we have experienced a kind of paradox; first we have adopted a law and now we are even going to write it in the constitution. This is in fact just an indication that we need significantly greater security and protection for the development and recognition of this language. That is why we will give this recognition not only to the language but, above all, to children, to young people and to adults, to be at least about the same and to have about the same starting points that we all have together. This is the right to education, the right to services in the public sector and the right not least to live in their world, in their cultural language, where they understand it best. Let me put it this way, and I'm concluding my position. In fact, very few people know when they talk about the Slovenian language that it is not their mother tongue. The mother tongue for them is a Slovenian sign language. Those who can't understand it can't understand why we're discussing it today and we want to get into the constitution. Because it's their mother tongue. Therefore, I ask you, all Members of Parliament and Members, in the LMŠ Group we have already accepted this, today we will, of course, accept this with the parliamentary aclamation. I believe that most of us together will give this support, and if this is a small step for us, believe me, for them it is a historic step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Every time we had a proposal to amend or supplement the Constitution on the table, we were warned that the Constitution was changing with a shivering hand. It is important that this action concentrates on what is changing or complementing and in what respects novelties are proposed to other provisions of the Constitution. Social Democrats believe that this time it is different. We have before us the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by new Article 62a of 18 April 2019 on the basis of which a new right is to be enshrined in the Constitution, the right to use the Slovenian Sign Language. The Social Democrats have supported the proposal for the start of the constitutional amendment. Enrollment of the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution is especially important for those individuals with hearing and vision problems who are more difficult to integrate into the community. How important human communication is that we have come to know practically everyone in the present year. Therefore, perhaps only now do most of us realize how difficult it is for people with hearing, blindness, or even hearing, who constantly face the handicap of lack of communication and social inclusion, how difficult it is to engage in education, how difficult it is to work, how civil rights and political rights are exercised, and how many other social events are. Persons with hearing and vision impairment are at risk of developing communication and language skills and will consequently have an impact on education, on the development of cognitive skills and also on psychological development. So now is the time for the right to communicate and to speak to deaf people to be enshrined in the Constitution. Your Honor! In the debate at the Constitutional Commission, many questions and dilemmas were raised as to what the inclusion of the right to Slovenian Sign Language in practice means. The expert commission has done important and good work, even though it has been revealed to members that there has been nothing for a long time, and has drawn up a proposal that answers a number of questions. On the Constitutional Commission, the proposal was supplemented by an expert group, adopted by 17 votes in favour since the 18th. That was just the first step. Today we're going to take two more steps. First of all, we will, in the Group of Social Democrats, evaluate, support by a two-thirds majority the decision to adopt the Government's proposal to complete the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and further support the text of Article 62a, i.e., “the free use and development of the Slovenian Sign Language are guaranteed. In the areas of municipalities where the official languages are Italian and Hungarian, the free use of the Italian and Hungarian Sign Language is ensured. The use of these languages and the position of their users is governed by law. The free use and development of the language of the deaf is governed by the law." End of quote. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposal. However, we are aware that we will have to take a number of steps to ensure that this right actually takes effect. At this point, I refer mainly to the law that will regulate the free use and development of the language of the deaf. Given that the proposal to supplement the Constitution has been prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we expect the draft law to be prepared. We note this because the record of the right to drinking water has not yet been translated into legislation. I believe that Members and Members will be able to reach the end of the proposal in this mandate, until article 62a is entered in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u226	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of February, the Constitutional Commission adopted a final decision on the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the registration of sign language of deaf and deaf persons in the highest legal act of the State. In the SMC Group, we are pleased that the constitutional procedure for the proposal has accelerated, and I myself, as President of the National Assembly, have committed myself to submitting the proposal to the National Assembly for consideration as soon as possible, especially due to the express expectation of the members and members of the Constitutional Commission that the National Assembly on the Supplementation of the Constitution should decide until the start of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The proposal to amend the Constitution by the previous Government has also been tabled in the parliamentary procedure since 2019 and it is correct that, after a qualitative debate, which took place within the framework of the Constitutional Commission and to which the expert committee, which has done its work well, will also do its part. In the SMC, we want the National Assembly to follow the expectations of the deaf and deaf and to unify itself with regard to the initiation of the procedure and also with regard to the position on the draft Constitutional Law and thus complete the next phase of the constitutional review process as soon as possible. In Slovenia, there are about a thousand deaf people who use Slovenian Sign Language, which means their first mother tongue. Approximately 550 people use a snail implant, about a hundred of them using a tactile sign language, and about 75,000 are users of a hearing aid. The proposal to amend the Constitution was based on the initiative of their representative organisation of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, which we must also mention here, so we believe that it must give the National Assembly a message that when it comes to human rights of vulnerable social groups such as disabled people and at the same time fundamental human rights, such as the right to communicate in the mother tongue, there is no room or time for political overplay. The proposal pursues a noble objective to provide, at constitutional level, to deaf users of the Slovenian Sign Language and deaf-blind users of the tactile sign language, the constitutional basis for appropriate measures to enable them to effectively exercise the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia includes, among other things, freedom of expression, electoral rights, education and education, the right to use its mother tongue and writing and so on. Agreement and language and the right to use them are essential for social inclusion and the exercise of fundamental human rights. The need for communication and language and the right to it is an essential condition that man is human. Slovenian Sign Language and Deaf Language are native indigenous languages of these groups in Slovenia. They are classified among minority languages in Slovenia, but so far they do not enjoy constitutional protection and are therefore in an unequal position as the languages of deaf or deaf minorities. Since the adoption of the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language, it has been almost 19 years, so it is high time to recognise Slovenian Sign Language and Deaf Language as the autonomous indigenous language of deaf or deaf people. Due to the inadequate recognition of the country, special care has been taken to preserve and develop them so far mainly on the shoulders of NGOs, and it is only in 2014 and 2016 that the country decided to place them in the Slovenian school premises. I am proud that this change will make us the fifth EU country to have the right to use sign language as enshrined in the Constitution, and we will be the first country to write the language of the deaf in the Constitution. The SMC Group supports this addition to the draft Constitutional Law. Let this change be a good road map for all further steps in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye! In Levica, we are persistent advocates of solutions that seek to ensure equal opportunities for all who seek to improve the situation of the most vulnerable among us, vulnerable individuals and social groups seeking their full social inclusion. We therefore support the completion of the Constitution which regulates the area of the Slovenian Sign Language and ensures the same position of the persons who use it. Our position on constitutional changes is always the same. It must not only go for the entry of an area or rights into the Constitution, but must also reflect this, be confirmed in practice. In practice, this must actually mean improvement for those affected by the amendment. While we have received some responses from the Government during the drafting of the text of the Constitutional Law, some questions have been raised. Even the ministries have not yet been able to precisely assess the effects of entering a sign language into the Constitution. If we really want to improve the rights of hearing and vision disabled people as a society, there will be a need for changes in curricula, there is a clear need for interpreters at schools and universities, and new study programmes will need to be introduced and so on. To implement the measures allowing users of the Slovenian Sign Language to fully exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms, we are already bound by the Conventions on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language, as well as the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018. Therefore, it is quite appropriate to ask whether the country today is truly exemplary in caring for sign - language users. These are all open questions that we must not forget when we complete the Constitution. We must not forget this either as a policy or as a society as a whole. As we say, in Levica we will support the proposal. However, we expect that the completion of the Constitution, the situation of persons with hearing and vision impairment will in fact improve and enable them to fully exercise their fundamental rights. We therefore once again call on the Government to commit itself clearly and unequivocally to the fact that this supplement will not remain just a nice gesture, but an empty letter on paper, as is unfortunately all too common practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State! First of all, I express my sincere gratitude and welcome the distinguished lady of the Slovenian Sign Language. In fact, in some ways it shows that the new Article 62a of the Constitution is somehow being implemented here in the National Assembly at least at this point in the agenda of the National Assembly. We are extremely happy and happy that you, the viewers and the viewers, can monitor this, as we are discussing today. I believe that Mrs interpreters and colleagues will soon continue to be in our society at the meetings of the National Assembly. This is our goal and, finally, our mission. We're talking about a sign language we can't hear, but we can see it. Speaking of language, we may have an association in our mother tongue today, and allow me to quote here the spiritual leader of the merger of the Premurese Slovenes with the mother nation, Joseph Klekle of the elder, who wrote more than 100 years ago: “The mother tongue, the dagger of the dear ones who gave us you.” You understood everything, although Premurst and Premurst are, of course, a literary language. Except “Kinč”, you will see this in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of New Slovenia, I declare that we will support the proposal for a decision to open the National Assembly with a constitutional amendment procedure. This decision is as proposed by the Constitutional Commission: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the Government's proposal of 18. 4. 2019 for the initiation of the follow-up procedure II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law on Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's a new 62a, so it's a sign language. We thank our colleagues in the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group for reaching a common opinion, and this is that in the areas of the municipalities where the official languages are also Hungarian and Italian, the free use of Hungarian and Italian Sign Language is ensured and we agree that the development of the Italian and Hungarian Sign Language is provided by the country of origin, i.e. Hungary and Italy. Let's go for a moment before we count. Today I am strongly addressed by the Greek philosopher Aristotle, quoted earlier, who wrote, “We meet people not as cattle on the pasture, but as we will talk.” That we'd talk. I believe and I believe that this was also the basis on which the author of the government proposal for amendments to the Constitution of Slovenia is building, here is the present Secretary of State, Mr Cveto Uršič, who wrote the text of the amendment of the Constitution two years ago, there in April 2019. So two years long, we've been on the Constitutional Commission for too long, I apologize for the expression, this text. But now we're just ahead of the target. The need for communication and language and the right to it is essential that we be human, perhaps for the fourth time today. Without communication, an individual in society cannot become an effective and productive adult or an informed citizen. In order for users to have the most of this provision in the Constitution, it depends primarily on the Constitutional Court and other courts, Parliament and the users themselves. From the judges because they explain the text of the Constitution and give meaning to words, from us Members to transfer part of the right of the Constitution to the laws which are implementing acts – I hope that it will not happen to us as it did to the registration of the right to drinking water into the constitution where we burned on the entire line. In the proceedings before the national authorities and the courts, users will apply the part which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will not introduce into law. I am also pleased that the expert committee at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission before this meeting of the National Assembly accepted the amendment to article 62a, a new article of the Constitution which we have prepared in Novi Slovenija. I conclude and repeat that we will support the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u232	Dear Members, honourable Members and distinguished also deaf, deaf and deaf companions of today's session, of course, accompanied by the help of a friendly lady of the interpreter! In the last two decades, Slovenian sign language has experienced several breakthroughs. In 2002 he received his marriage and in 2014 he received his day, January 2nd, and in 2018 he received an entry into the unfathomable cultural heritage. In 2019 the first Slovenian dictionary of the Slovenian Sign Language was created. All these milestones, let us hope, are now joined by the inclusion of this language into the constitution. By confirming today's decision, it will be possible to run procedures for entering the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution and thus recognise the status of the indigenous language of the community that uses this language. Free use and development will not only be provided with Slovenian sign language, but also with Hungarian and Italian language. Deaf people will also receive the city in the constitution, which is especially a source of satisfaction for us in the SAB. This vote, at least we hope, can be one of those in which we can anticipate the outcome in advance, a vote in which there is no division in the National Assembly, merely a recognition of the importance of regulating the area. This has already been demonstrated by discussions and also by all the votes cast at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission. If such a thing seems logical, it is not necessary to look too far away to see that it is not so everywhere. Already in neighbouring Italy, sign language, for example, is still not even recognised in legislation. It is also a eloquent fact that we will join only the four European countries that have organised this before us, Finland, Hungary, Austria and Portugal. This will enable us, together with them, to point out the importance of this area to all other members of the European Union, which is also very important in the light of the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of Europe. But we need to be aware that by entering the constitution we will write only one important chapter, followed by a great deal. The deaf, deaf and deaf should be able to create conditions under which their situation will be as equal as possible to the situation of hearing or hearing citizens and under all conditions should be prevented from being discriminated against in public life and treated differently from others. The environment in which they live must become so much more tailored to their needs as to their ability, if we want them to be able to be equal, to receive better education, which will make it easier for them to fit into society, and so that they can achieve better employment as a result, then we must add to this symbolic action a series of changes and steps that will bring concrete solutions and opportunities to practice. From now on, the efforts and enthusiasm of volunteers and individuals who have been pursuing all the progress of this community must be replaced by the concerns of the State. The State will be the one who will be obliged to ensure continued and systematic care for the development of this language, in particular by providing sufficient funding. The area where key stakeholders are most likely to work is undoubtedly the area of education. Each individual, including deaf, deaf and deaf, must be able to access knowledge and education. Research in the Union of the Deaf and Deaf has shown, for example, that 89 percent of deaf people have the highest secondary vocational education and that less than a percent have academic education. Now we're taking this data to a hearing population, how big this spread is. Ambition, desire and curiosity sensoryly disabled persons are not likely to decrease disability. 89 per cent does not mean that 89 per cent of people actually wanted to reach only secondary school, but in many cases it is clear that they have been set up and drawn on unequal conditions compared to the heard population. To all of us who hear, it is unimaginable that we cannot learn our own language at school, and this must also become a reality for sign language users. Especially because the consequences of inadequate regulation as a domino effect affect and mark the entire life of the affected: poor literacy leads to poor education, which leads to lower employability, the latter results in poor material conditions, low incomes, dependence on social assistance and social visibility for life. The possibility of education in their language is therefore essential for these people. Even though we can be proud to include deaf people as one of the few in the constitution, their language remains an area that needs a lot of attention because of all the specifics. Particularly important is the fact that deafness blindness is not only a problem for those born with it but also for those who bring it to them. So, something that's waiting for us all in a row. We must also address this aspect of our ageing society. All of this, of course, will not erase a decade of contempt and neglect, abandonment, perhaps even injustices that have occurred to some of the deaf, deaf and deaf, but I hope that it will significantly change the situation and potential of all those for whom it is not too late. The proposal for a decision will be welcomed and unanimously supported by the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. Three others were reported, namely Janja Slug, Jani Möderndorfer and Igor Zorčič. I see there's no Lamb Servant. I give my word to Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, I am pleased to hear the views themselves because, apart from one party, all parties, parliamentary groups in the National Assembly support the entry of the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution, of course we will vote tomorrow. However, a number of questions or, above all, appeals in this area were addressed, if so, what after the entry into the Constitution has been made or voted and the constitution has been amended. What's the first thing that's gonna happen? One is certainly the one that will have to change the Law on the Use of the Slovenian Sign Language, and the other, what the Government will have to do, and this will be seen at the next budget, of course, is to open a new item on the financing of the Slovenian Sign Language. At the same time, there is likely to be a debate in the professional circles, a discussion of how officially recognised by the constitutional category of language will also put the language into learning plans. Indeed, the fact is that during all this time we had one of the main problems, and this is how to put Slovenian sign language into the curricula of both schools where children are integrated, and also specialized schools, public institutions that educate this kind of youth. In fact, the problem is, as I've already indicated, mainly in professional staff. I say that if sign language can be taught by people working with a deaf population – it is said that if today we can have very quality interpreters of the Slovenian Sign Language – it is certainly possible for those who directly work or teach the youngest population to have this as a compulsory subject and, of course, also one of the fundamental values that even when such an expert is admitted to the institution, he has knowledge of this language. For I can't imagine anyone teaching someone, and actually they can't communicate with them. This is a fundamental foundation that must simply happen. Secondly, with higher education institutions where such students are said to be users of sign language, they are taught. Of course, it is the special Andragog skills these teachers should have when they have such a student in their classroom. They do not need to know the Slovenian Sign Language, because it would always be an interpreter, but it must certainly have knowledge of who they are dealing with, what their values are, what their relationship to such a person is. This, of course, is one of those firsts. And the second, of course, is development. We must not forget that the Slovenian Sign Language was once literally a curse in this country. In fact, 120 years ago, children were prevented from getting their hands tied to their backs before they even spoke. Well, of course it's not like that today. Far from it. However, feelings and feelings are very close, for many times they do not have the opportunity to express themselves in their own language. And that's the key problem. Let me conclude my debate by being satisfied with the course of the constitutional audit procedure. But we need to know that tomorrow's vote is not the end of the story. We will have to go to the Constitutional Commission once again if there is any other detail that would apply before we enter the Constitution, that we are paying attention, because the Constitution does not change just so that the record is accurate and also meaningful. And in the end, I am looking forward to discussing again in the National Assembly, which I am already looking forward to today. Let me tell you, although I am pleased that this would be before the Presidency of the European Union, but not only because of this, but mainly and only because of the users; those who urgently need this language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič is not here, so we are moving to the conclusion of the debate. On a proposal for a decision in which a representative of the Government of Cveto Uršič will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Government, as I initially said, support the placement of the Slovenian Sign Language in the Constitution in order to enable or improve the possibility of use and to ensure the development of the Slovenian Sign Language. Allow me a purely personal note. Before I was appointed Secretary of State, I had the honour to be appointed to the expert group that reviewed the proposal prepared by the Ministry in the National Assembly. I was simply appointed as an expert on the one hand, and also as a volunteer, who even associate adult life with all groups of people with disabilities; whether they are deaf, deaf, deaf or motionless, mentally impaired or otherwise. And believe me, in the expert group, we have studied thoroughly "for" and "against" how to write the text in order to be clear and appropriate as a constitutional provision. That's why it was changed. We have also reviewed the comparative legal framework of the regulation in other countries. Yeah, the job was responsible. Therefore, thank you, on my part, also to all the colleagues and colleagues in this section. Secondly, Slovenia was extremely active when the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was prepared in the United Nations in 2005, there by 2006. I went to the meetings myself and Slovenia ratified this Convention among the first countries in the European Union and thus demonstrated in such a symbolic manner that in Slovenia we respect the human rights of all citizens and citizens, including persons with disabilities. That is why I was later elected to the First Committee of the United Nations, where we were 12 members from around the world, and believe me, one of the key elements in this committee was the right to communication, the right to privacy, the inclusion in the environment, which is not without the possibility of communication. You're expelled. This is why Slovenia, yes, a good country that has already adopted the Law on the Use of Slovenian Sign Language in 2002, which has significantly contributed to the greater possibilities of deaf, deaf people with sluggish implantation and deafness. But, unfortunately, it's still happening. When the deaf person comes to the doctor, the doctor speaks to the interpreter and the interpreter looks, not the deaf person and the interpreter has to say, look, I'm the hands, you talk to him, you talk to her. The constitutionalization will also show at this symbolic level that communication is the fundamental right of the deaf person. The interpreter's hands. There were also many words about whether it would be a dead letter on paper. Believe me, as long as this suit is in the Ministry and as long as this composition is in Parliament, it certainly won't. You have shown these days that you have a great deal of attention to the rights of people with disabilities: raising invalid pensiones, petitioning the Commission had a lot to say about a family assistant, in the process of raising the compensation for lost income, the possibility of staying parents with a disabled child or a severely ill person in a hospital. It's listening to vulnerable groups, where they're disabled. Above the ministry, however, there will be a community of deaf, deaf, deaf people who will keep a key watch. These are the ones who will set up mirrors for us daily and tell us when you will do it, when you will do it. Believe me, these are persistent people who are determined and know what their rights are and what they need to live alone, to be included in the environment. At this system level we know that sign language is already included also because of the law on the development of the Slovenian language. We are now talking a lot about learning plans, as Mr Möderndorfer said, also about educating interpreters at a different level. There's a lot to be done on specifics. See, the Ministry's website, the key regulations that touch disability protection, especially the works of the Directorate for Disabled Persons, are translated into Slovenian Sign Language, so that they can directly deaf themselves through sign language, i.e. in their autochthonous, autonomous communication can become acquainted with these rights that are theirs. And I firmly believe that's how it's gonna go. Therefore, honourable Members, thank you for today's support; thank you to the Constitutional Commission, thank you to the expert commission. Of course, today is the first half, the second half follows. In the meantime, the Constitutional Commission will work – and thank you very much for today's support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. If the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision, it will immediately pursue the debate on the draft Constitutional Law and the position of the Constitutional Commission and then on any amendments, the position of the Constitutional Commission, as part of the remainder of the total time of the groups of Members and the Government. The amendments may be tabled until the end of the debate on the draft Constitutional Law and the position of the Constitutional Commission. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the State's Attorney's Office within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u238	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is before you, deals with the issue of the inclusion of European Delegated Prosecutors in the system of compulsory social insurance, the appearance of European Delegated Prosecutors before the courts and cooperation, and the exchange of information between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. It also specifies the required level of knowledge of the working language of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In view of the specific positions of the European Delegated Prosecutor, who will carry out his work in matters under the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and at the same time, because of the nature of his work and competence, he cannot be left with the State Prosecutor's Office and certain rights from the State Prosecutor's Office, the European Delegated Prosecutor remains in relation to both the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office. Since national compulsory social insurance rules do not know such insurance status, it is also stipulated that the European Delegated Prosecutor is also considered an insured person for the period during which he works in matters under the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. However, for the period during which he works in matters under the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office, for the purpose of inclusion in compulsory social security, he is equivalent to the state prosecutors assigned to the Special Prosecutor's Office. The taxpayer for contributions from the insurer and the employer is the Special Prosecutor's Office, which is also liable for the payment of social benefits from both the worker and the employer. The amendment also regulates the appearance of European prosecutors and the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in exceptional proceedings. In the case of exceptional remedies, the European Prosecutor or the European Delegated Prosecutor will be able to appear before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but only after the power conferred on him by the Attorney-General, together with the Attorney-General, on a case-by-case basis. The amendment to the proposed articles also provides that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor must have knowledge of the working language of the European Public Prosecutor at least at the level of C1 of the common European language framework. Let me get this. With an exciting novelty, the Republic of Slovenia will arrange everything necessary to start the work of the European Delegated Prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office was considered by the Committee on Justice as a parent working body at its 27th emergency meeting. 3. 2021. Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice of Zlatko Ratej, said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendments to the European Delegated Prosecutor involved the compulsory social security system in the Republic of Slovenia and provided for the retirement of his rights and duties from the State Prosecutor's Office, with the exception of the State Prosecutor's Office. It also regulates the appearance of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and specifies the required level of knowledge of the working language of the European Public Prosecutor, which must be at least at the level of C1 of the common European language framework, that is the level of efficiency. In presenting the written legal opinion, the representative of Špela Maček Gustin of the Law and Law Service pointed out that the proposed Articles 4 and 5 interfere with the established arrangements for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor by establishing the necessary knowledge of the working language of the European Public Prosecutor at least at C1 level, while the explanation does not show which requirements and the relevant rules of the European Union are being followed. It also drew attention to the issue of retroactive application of those articles. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočar presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. The representative of the State Prosecutor's Council, Tamara Gregorčič, said in a presentation of a written opinion that the State Prosecutor's Council opposes, in Articles 4 and 5, the proposed clarification of the level of knowledge of the European Public Prosecutor's Office's working language, which means tightening the conditions for appointment as European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutor, thereby narrowing the range of potential candidates. In their view, it would be sufficient for candidates to satisfy the condition of satisfactory working language knowledge, which corresponds to level B2. It also drew attention to the absence of a transitional regime which would provide that the procedure for the appointment of two delegated state prosecutors should be completed in accordance with the existing rules. Aleš Butala, representative of the Attorney General's Office, concurred with the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of State and the Council of State. He recalled that the European Prosecutor from the Republic of Slovenia had already taken office in Luxembourg and that the procedure for appointing two European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia had not yet been completed despite calls from the European Union. He explained that the European Delegated Prosecutors would appear before Slovenian courts and that their legal knowledge of the effectiveness of prosecution of crimes must therefore be at the forefront of the European Union. In the debate, opposition Members drew attention to the responsibility of the Minister of Justice for late appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia and to the unacceptable political pressure on the State Prosecutor's Office. They agreed with the previous opinions and warnings on the proposed stricter appointment requirement by setting a higher level of working language knowledge than the European Public Prosecutor's Office actually requires and the related issue of retroactivity of those amendments, which, in their view, clearly shows that they are submitted to ad persons and with a view to influencing the procedure for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia in progress. The representative further explained that, according to the Ministry of Justice, the definition of the condition of working language in the domain of individual Member States is more stringent, and pointed out that Germany, which has established an even stricter condition, is the knowledge of the working language at the level of C2. In this regard, he said that the verification phase for the fulfilment of the conditions in the ongoing procedure for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia had already been completed. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the LMŠ Group and the Member of Predrag Baković. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the absence of amendments to the draft law, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office should be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u241	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u242	Good-bye. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Secretary, all present! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not define ourselves to the very content of the law which lays down the rights relating to the social security of the European Delegated Prosecutor and to the working language which the Prosecutor is supposed to know. As we have repeatedly pointed out in this mandate, the European Prosecutor's Institute is a foreign institution in our system and should not be reached. We are most concerned that the sovereignty of the State is being violated by such bodies delegated by the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of the state prosecutor in 135th Article – I emphasise the state prosecutor, and this is constitutional matter. The proper application of the Regulation could avoid the transfer of that authority to our legal order. The state's sovereignty and the monopolisation of the criminal procedure in the hands of the European authorities will be violated by the superstate prosecutor. The superstate prosecutor has far more powers than the state prosecutor in the Slovenian legal system. Europe is obviously concerned about the functioning of its equal members, of course exclusively in relation to finance. That's interesting, so much for trust and equality! Criminal law is the backbone of every country, and when Europe has jurisdiction over this area too, it is the final end of our country. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent and independent college body independent of the Member States and other institutions of the European Union, so we open the door to an organ that is completely independent and independent. This body will be able to do whatever it wants in our country. First, Europe has acquired banks, now it's reaching out to hunters in criminal law. It is therefore a matter of establishing another body, many of which will further weaken national sovereignty. It must also be said that countries not included in the European Public Prosecutor's System are Poland, Hungary, Sweden, Denmark and so on. Why? Apparently because they have smart leaders. Standing Chambers are being established to monitor and direct investigations and prosecutions carried out by European Delegated Prosecutors. The Permanent Senate will thus give instructions to the European Delegated Prosecutor in a separate case. So it's the foreigner who's going to make the final decision. Such arrangements must be feared. The first paragraph of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provides that the State Prosecutor shall be independent in the performance of the prosecutor's office, bound only by the Constitution and the law. What will be the judicial control over this work of these superstate prosecutors? Because they are independent, of course they cannot be. It is likely that control will be similar to that of the European Central Bank. The law enforcement authorities should remain exclusively in national structures. You'll know your mistake by the time it's too late. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u244	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, ZDT-1E, is adopted on an urgent basis. This dictates the necessity of interest in the context of the security of the State and in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State itself. Normative amendments and additions proposed are necessary in view of the smooth functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which, through the two European Delegated Prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia, investigates and prosecutes offences under the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and represents the necessary adaptation of the applicable law with regard to Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor of 29 September 2020 laying down rules for the employment of European Delegated Prosecutors. The proposed amendment deals with individual status issues relating to the rights and position of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor, who will serve as a prosecution in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings and Regulation 2017/1939 of the EU. The status cases relate to the inclusion of the European Delegated Prosecutor in the social security system and to the maintenance of rights and duties from the State Prosecutor's Office for a period in which they work in matters under the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The amendment also regulates the appearance of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, including in the case of exceptional remedies. However, he will only be allowed to appear before the Supreme Court under the authority designated by the Attorney-General and together with the Attorney-General for each case. As regards the level of knowledge of the working language of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the paper follows the decision of a colleague of the European Public Prosecutor's Office of 30. 9. 2020, which defines English as the working language of the EJT for operational and administrative activities. On the basis of the EJT decision in the new ZDT 1E, the Government proposed that the level of C1 of the common European language framework be required for both the European and the European Delegated Prosecutor, which means a level at which a person can effectively and adaptably use the language for professional, learning and social purposes and is able to express himself clearly, structurally and in detail. Given that European Delegated Prosecutors will be responsible for overseeing the purposeful use of European funds, it is clear that English is an excellent knowledge of the basic condition for their smooth and efficient work. Let us recall that the Committee on Justice on 10 March 20201 supported the amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which lays down the conditions for the employment of European Delegated Prosecutors and the necessary level of English knowledge. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, ZDT-1E. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u246	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The novel that is before us today would not in itself be at issue if there were no specific political agenda in the background of its contents. There is probably no need to explain in particular the background of the government's ignorance by choosing two candidates for the post of two European Delegated Prosecutors. The very background of this story is the reason for putting a controversial change in the level of English knowledge into the amendment of the law, which would otherwise be necessary only in order to provide a basis for the full implementation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Just in a quick explanation. The College of the European Public Prosecutor has set English for the working language for operational and administrative activities and has established a satisfactory level of English skills as a condition for the European Prosecutor's post of employment, corresponding to level B2. The change you are proposing today, which therefore requires a higher level of English at C1 level, is only and only the result of this government's attempt to find a way to get rid of the two already selected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, who are obviously not interested in the President of the Government. Since it has been proved that both selected candidates have a sufficient degree of English, even the greatest knowledge that you now want to prescribe with this novelty, namely level C1, a new amendment to this law has been announced which would revise the selection and familiarity process. Let me be clear today again on the position of the LMŠ: no change in the law in accordance with our legal order must go retroactively into the already completed selection procedure, i.e. backwards. Not by adding some new, stricter conditions with regard to English knowledge, nor by modifying the selection or familiarity procedure. In order for such abuse of power, I am talking here mainly about the coalition voting machine, will not occur, we have tabled an amendment to today's amendment to the transitional and final provisions, which clearly stipulates that the new condition of higher English knowledge cannot apply back, i.e. the procedures already started or the selection procedure has already been halted. Without such a provision, in our opinion, the question of retroactive application of the said articles is rightly raised, since the proposed text of the amendment does not show whether the proposed additions to the conditions for candidateing are fixed for future calls or could have an effect even in the case of procedures that may still be under way. Not only is there a danger, without such an amendment, that these stricter selection conditions would apply to the already elected candidate, because it has turned out that both candidates speak English, but there is now a new danger that the entire selection and awareness process will end, return to the very beginning and that this government will achieve its own; this is that these two already elected candidates will not be appointed as a European Delegated Prosecutor. This is, of course, unacceptable and illegal. In the LMŠ Group, we will not support this amendment if the amendments in the transitional and final provisions are not confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u248	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry to start this way, but it is more than obvious that the Government, with all the cannons attacking Slovenian prosecutors, is exerting unacceptable pressure on them. Since the beginning of his term of office, he has been introducing laws that either make their work more difficult or reduce their independence and independence. The President of the Government, with representatives of prosecutors, is even publicly charging on social networks and directing them to pursue whom and who not. Not only do such practices of the current governments further undermine people's confidence in independent judicial bodies, including in the international space. There Slovenia is increasingly losing the trust and reputation of a young democratic and legal state. Amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office are necessary to enable the newly established body, this is the European Public Prosecutor's Office, to operate smoothly at all. Slovenia must therefore also appoint two so-called European Delegated Prosecutors who will act in this body and prosecute and investigate crimes to the detriment of the European Union. It is therefore an extremely important function of these prosecutors, and it is our country's legal obligation to appoint them. But the government's blocking the D.A.'s appointment because she's obviously not comfortable. The Ministry of Justice has long since sent a proposal for names, and the government should only confirm them. The European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders also pointed out that Slovenia is late in this regard. Even so, the Council of Europe has recently been informed by the Association of Public Prosecutors of the many unacceptable pressures on prosecutors exercised by the President of the Government. In Legal Practice, the magazine, there was also an article with this topic that somehow defines this issue. Since the Government does not have the legal levers to stop this appointment, it finally tabled even a proposal for a law that gave rise to a stricter condition of the working language for candidateing the European Prosecutor’s office, probably in order to end the procedure in the end. Both the Rule of Law and the State Prosecutor's Council have pointed out that no such stricter condition is required or recommended in any European Union act and is not recommended and recommended by any other Member State, so the question arises whether the European Union's rules allow for any decision on additional or more stringent conditions in national legislation. It also adopted a decision by the College of the European Public Prosecutors setting out that European Delegated Prosecutors should be employed on condition that they have satisfactory knowledge of the working language, i.e. English, for the operational and administrative activities of the Prosecutor's Office. And the satisfactory knowledge of language is at B2 level, which is also a higher level of knowledge required for most jobs in the institutions of the European Union. The proposed level of language, as proposed by the proposer, is therefore not based on the rules of the European Union, nor in the requirements of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, nor in the employment of the institutions of the European Union. The proposed regulation is also questionable from the constitutional point of view and from the principle of the prohibition of retroactive application of the rules, since there is no provision in the proposal for a law that the proposal does not refer to the procedures already initiated for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors. We have already drawn attention to all of this to the committee where we have proposed an amendment that has not been adopted. We will also support the amendment of the LMŠ, which relates to the initiation of the procedure for the appointment of two prosecutors. There was even news on social networks that the proposed candidates did not speak a foreign language, which, of course, in the State Prosecutor's Council, they clearly denied. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the Government called the procedure for appointing prosecutors a special feature because the government is not a post office because it has no influence on the choice. However, most European countries have a similar procedure as Slovenia. It is clear, therefore, that there is obvious fraud and manipulation with the public about the procedure. All of this shows that it is a re-examination of the existing policy to restrict the Constitution and the law of independent authorities. We therefore rightly ask ourselves how far we will go and when we will stop destroying the foundations of our Slovenia, the democratic and the rule of law. We're not going to break the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u250	Your Honor! The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a newly established European body based in Luxembourg responsible for investigating the use of European funds and the prosecution of possible fraud, corruption or money laundering with implications for the budget of the European Union. Slovenia joined this European judicial cooperation already in 2017, that is, at the time when the Justice Department was run by the Modern Centre Party. Slovenia has decided to take this step because it has recognised that many frauds are at the expense of the European Union budget and therefore needs an institution that can investigate and prosecute throughout the European Union. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we point out that the budget of the European Union is also full of the resources of our taxpayers and that this will make it easier to secure their assets or assets. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent body of the European Union responsible for investigating, prosecuting and prosecuting crimes against the financial interests of the Union, such as fraud, corruption, cross-border VAT fraud and the like. He will conduct investigations, carry out prosecution measures and carry out prosecution functions, the prosecutor in the competent courts of the Member States. The European Prosecutor-General and the College of the European Prosecutor, headed by the Office, and delegated European prosecutors in individual Member States are responsible for day-to-day investigations and prosecutions. It is expected to start on 1 March this year, but its operation has stalled since all the members participating in it have not yet carried out all the procedures for the selection of delegated European public prosecutors. In addition, some countries, like Slovenia, have not yet been able to fully align legislation with the Council of the European Union Regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The news that we are considering at this meeting removes these inconsistencies, and it must also be borne in mind that the latter issue needs to be addressed before the work of the European Delegated Prosecutors starts because it affects their rights with regard to social security. We need to put in place appropriate arrangements for the Slovenian European Delegated Prosecutors to be able to retain their social security rights, pensions and social security rights under the Slovenian social protection system. Most controversial is the solution that sets the level of knowledge of the working language of European public prosecutors, at least at the level of C1 of the common European language framework, for the effective work of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we point out that the work of the European Prosecutor is carried out in English and that adequate knowledge is a prerequisite for effective and effective work. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we also assess that this condition for the appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor cannot affect the procedures under way and cannot be applied retroactively. The latter provision should therefore not and cannot affect the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors who are waiting to be briefed by the Government. Given that the candidature has been on the table for two years now, that no one has bothered it so far, and that the European Commissioner for Justice has already twice called on us to complete the procedures as quickly and transparently as possible, we expect the adoption of today's amendment to fulfil the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia and its Government, which is subject to both Slovenian and European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The aim of the proposal is to achieve the full implementation of Regulation 2017/1939 and the decision on the Slovenian legal order. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a newly established European body based in Luxembourg which will be responsible for investigating the use of European billions and the prosecution of possible fraud, corruption or money laundering with implications for the budget of the European Union. In Levica we estimate that such a law is likely to be necessary, and we are surprised by the procedures for adopting this amendment, as well as the procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors from Slovenia. In doing so, the new requirements regarding the required level of foreign language knowledge are unusual. The State Prosecutor's Council points out that the required knowledge of the foreign language is too high and can outweigh the knowledge and experience of the candidates. It is also unclear whether the procedure for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors is to be completed under the current law or under new conditions. The Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out in its opinion some uncertainties as to the retroactivity of the conditions for appointment. Given the circumstances of the adoption of the law and the procedures for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, we can conclude that the Government is trying to block the appointment of two prosecutors who are not pleased by the amendment of the law. It is more than obvious that Janez Janša for personal reasons is writing ad personam laws to prevent the appointment of unwanted prosecutors in any way, which means impermissible interference with the independence of the judiciary. The Government, which should only be familiar with the appointment, does not wish to place this item on the agenda of the government's meeting and thereby block the appointment. Thus, it is not only that Slovenian European Delegated Prosecutors are not appointed, nor can the European Authority begin its work. Our delay seriously threatens the launch of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Slovenia, which should start operating on 1 March. This has become so critical for the judiciary that Commissioner Didier Reynders, in a letter addressed to Justice Minister Liljano Kozlović, urged Slovenia to hurry and, nevertheless, to confirm Slovenian members of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to allow the newly established body to operate in the territory of Slovenia as of 1 March. Due to the whim of the Prime Minister of the Government, because the European Delegated Prosecutors are clearly in the prime minister of misdemeanour, the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is being blocked. This is how the President of the Government and the whole Government understands politics – politics is a personal interest and a personal offense. The President of the Government has even publicly attacked the Minister of Justice to propose to the Government candidates who do not speak a foreign language or who themselves acknowledge that they do not know it. This is another form of discarding lies and public deception by Prime Minister Janša, since the nomination procedure for the State Prosecutor's Council also required candidates to have satisfactory knowledge of foreign languages, which they also took into account in the process. One of the candidates even attached proof of knowledge of English at the highest level of C2 to meet this condition also under the proposed new conditions. And why does the chosen prosecutor, Janez Janša, not like it? Prosecutor Tanja Frank Eller was involved in the preparation of a lawsuit under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin against Janša and Matthew Oštir's biggest government party resented him for rejecting the complaint against Pro Plus. As if the prosecutors are guilty that the President of the Government and his client are often in the hearing of the State Prosecutor's Office and that the prosecutors should be the service of the daily political caprices of the ruling SDS and its president. More than likely, the prosecutions are severe thorns in the fifth ruling party in this country. Things have been going so far that state prosecutors have turned to European institutions, and the processes of decommissioning the rule of law by the government of Janez Janša are too severe. If an amendment clarifying how the procedures already adopted with regard to prosecutors are completed, we will not oppose the law. If it is not adopted, we will vote against it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u254	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows and fellows, once again a nice greeting! The proposal for a novelty brings urgent changes to the full implementation of the European Regulation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The integration of countries into European integration and the subsequent establishment of intensive operations across Member States' borders in the internal market also require the integration of the judicial systems of the countries. Unfortunately, cross-border fraud also occurs. Member States lose at least €50 billion of VAT revenue each year due to cross-border fraud, and it is also estimated that €638 million of structural resources were misused in 2015. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is the European Union's body responsible for conducting criminal investigations and prosecuting crimes against the EU budget. These are frauds, tax evasions and the like. The aim of the bill is to achieve the full implementation of the EU Regulation of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the conclusion of the College of this Prosecutor of September 2020 in the Slovenian legal order. In order to ensure consistent compliance with the national legal order and the effectiveness of the rule of law and legal certainty in the implementation of the regulation, it is essential to adapt the existing provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Act in such a way that they do not conflict with or ensure its application. The European Regulation provides that Member States must ensure that such arrangements are established whereby European Delegated Prosecutors retain all rights relating to social security under the national system and, in addition, the College of Prosecutors of September 2020 also provides that European Delegated Prosecutors are recognised as entitled to work: right to leave, right to work days, right to compensation during their annual leave, right to compensation for retention from work, sickness or injury, right to maternity, paternity and parental compensation. The European Delegated Prosecutor should be subject to the same insurance conditions and the same amount of contributions as they were paid before their appointment, i.e. before being allocated to the European Delegated Prosecutor. The bill provides that the insured person in the compulsory social insurance scheme is also the European Delegated Prosecutor, as is the case for all persons in a working relationship in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also established that he is liable to contribute to the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, where European Delegated Prosecutors are employed. In the light of the characteristics of the scheme itself, the basis for the payment of social security contributions is also laid down. The draft law also regulates the appearance of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In these proceedings, the European Delegated Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor, acting under the authority of the High Prosecutor, will have to be given the power of the Attorney General. In September 2020, the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office adopted a decision establishing that the working language of the Prosecutor's Office is English. The bill stipulates that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor must master the skills of the working language at least at the level of C1 of the common European language framework, as in Slovenia we are striving that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor should act as effectively as possible. With regard to the various debates regarding the necessary level of English knowledge, I would like to draw attention to the State Secretary's explanation on the Committee on Justice, which said that the level in Germany is even higher, namely the C2 of the Common European Language Framework, which is a level of excellence. The work of the European Prosecutor shall be carried out in English and shall have adequate knowledge in addition to his expertise in assisting him in his work. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed solutions to the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions will make the work of the European Delegated Prosecutor in the Republic of Slovenia definitive. It is a matter of adapting national legislation to the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutors laying down rules on the conditions for the employment of European Delegated Prosecutors. The legal basis is therefore laid down for the involvement of the European Delegated Prosecutor in the social security system and for the exercise of the rights and duties of the State Prosecutor’s Office other than the State Prosecutor’s Office. The appearance of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court is also being regulated following an analogy of the current regulation. In this way, they will only be allowed to appear before the Supreme Court under the authority designated by the Attorney-General and together with the Attorney-General on a case-by-case basis. The law also lays down the level of knowledge of the working language for this European prosecutor, namely that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor must have at least C1 level at least. The College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office has established satisfactory knowledge of the working language, and this level is, after all, the one required for most jobs in the European Union. The State Prosecutor's Council and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office also object to the stricting of the conditions. That the proposed regulation interferes with the current regulation of the conditions for the appointed European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor, our Legislative and Legal Service also warned. In doing so, everyone points out that more importance must be given to the selection of candidates, in particular to knowledge and experience which are essential to the effective functioning of prosecutors. In this regard, we must not forget the fact that Slovenia has already received calls from Brussels to confirm two Slovenian members of the European Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as possible. Their appointment is conditional on the entry into force of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Slovenia, and the appointment deadline has expired on 1 March. Let us also recall that the Minister of Justice, on a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council, has already proposed two candidates who have received a positive opinion from the Attorney-General as well as from the Chief Prosecutor-General. However, it is clear that the candidates were not in favour of the President of the Government or the largest government party because of their past work and that their appointment process has ceased. Such blocking of appointment was not limited to those two. The government has been delaying the appointment of new state prosecutors for months. This is best felt in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and in the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, where they also face a great deal of human resources distress, but of course they also have the biggest caseload. In the SAB party, we view such actions by the President of the Government as extremely unacceptable and point out that this is an unacceptable pressure on prosecutors and an intervention in the second branch of the government. In their work, prosecutors are bound only by the Constitution and laws and therefore, according to past work, according to which complaints, for example, have been rejected, in which they have continued to pursue and so on, we cannot assess the quality and expertise of their work. If the law was so written, if what the prosecutor had before him was in accordance with the law, if the signs of the crime were to be given, the prosecutor had to continue his prosecution. In the absence of such conditions, he may have withdrawn or dropped the complaint. It is indeed unacceptable to evaluate their work backwards on a case-by-case basis. In the SAB, we therefore welcome and support the proposed supplement, which will undoubtedly provide that the procedures that have already begun will be completed in accordance with the rules in force. For the President of the Government has made a public statement that he disagrees with the appointment procedure laid down by the current law. It is more than obvious that the Government is delaying with a view to concluding the appointment procedure following the adoption of the proposed provisions, which is undoubtedly contrary to the Slovenian Constitution, which provides in Article 155 for the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. We believe that the adoption of the law is necessary for a number of practical reasons, but we cannot shake the feeling that the conditions for the European public prosecutor's working language are being tightened just to block the two purely concerned candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, who, as mentioned, are not the biggest government party or ruling suitors. In the SAB proposal, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! The proposed novelty aims to establish a comprehensive implementation of the European Regulation concerning the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is the independent body of the European Union responsible for the investigation, prosecution and prosecution of crimes against the financial interests of the Union, such as fraud, corruption, smuggling and the like. The current provisions of the State Prosecutor's Act should be amended in such a way that they are not contrary to the content of that Regulation. In the last period, we have already adopted certain necessary adaptations to sectoral legislation in the National Assembly in this regard, so that today's discussion is an additional article to provide the necessary normative basis for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Regulation thus provides that Member States must ensure that such arrangements are in place to ensure that European Delegated Prosecutors retain all social security rights under the national system. In addition, the College of the European Public Prosecutors has established that the European Delegated Prosecutors are granted the right to leave and day off, the right to compensation for annual leave, the right to compensation for work retention or non-working injury, and the right to maternity, paternity and parental compensation. European Delegated Prosecutors should be subject to the same conditions of insurance, the same types and amounts of contributions as they were paid before their appointment. It is therefore stipulated by the proposal for a law that the European Delegated Prosecutor is an insured person in the system of Slovenian compulsory social insurance, as a person in a working relationship in the Republic of Slovenia. The basis for the payment of social security contributions is also being specified. The basis will be the gross amount of salary, compensation and any other remuneration that the European Delegated Prosecutor receives from the European Public Prosecutor’s Office for the time he is working on matters under the jurisdiction of this Prosecutor. This proposal also amends the rule of appearance of the European Prosecutor and of the European Delegated Prosecutor before the Supreme Court in cases of exceptional remedies. In the case of exceptional remedies, they will be able to act with the Attorney-General in a new manner, and they will therefore need to be empowered by the Attorney-General on a case-by-case basis. Last year, the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office adopted a decision setting English as the working language for operational and administrative activities. Thus, the proposal provides that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor must have a working language knowledge at least at the level of C1 of the common European language framework, which means that a person can effectively and adaptably use the language for professional, learning and social purposes. In the Desus Group, we agree that a comprehensive legislative framework for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is needed as soon as possible, and today we will support this bill. The European public prosecutor's candidate is well known. The State Prosecutor's Council's proposal was welcomed by both the Attorney-General and the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, and therefore the Minister of Justice gave the candidates a green light. Because they meet all the prescribed conditions, the government should support them without any difficulty. At Desus, we regret that the final appointment of both new national prosecutors and these two candidates for the European Public Prosecutor's Office is still at stake, despite the fact that the candidates have successfully come through all the sieves prescribed by our legislation for these functions. Blocking the designations of such important actors in the justice system due to such and different perceptions, which, according to our assessment, do not have a material basis, is certainly not in place, and from this place we call on the President of the Government to ensure that the appointments are implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SMC Group for a new Article 5a. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. Two reported. Natasha Sukich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, what we're witnessing is serious playing and interfering with the judicial branch of power. The fact that the Government is still blocking the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors by having to start work on March 1st and today we are March 25th clearly shows why it is doing so. And all the perceiving that the possible adoption of this law would not have been retrogradely regulated by anything is clearly a lie. Because if that were not the case, the government would already be familiar with the appointed European prosecutors, and the matter would come to light. But no; no, because the government wants to retrograde the appointment of other European Delegated Prosecutors with this law. Therefore, a government that does not really have any other powers than to be familiar with the appointment simply does not place this item on the agenda of the Government’s meeting. And what is more than completely unacceptable, repulsive and harsh interference with the judiciary, the independent branch of power in this country. Where are we going? It is amazing what pressures Prime Minister Janša can afford; it is simply blocking the appointment only because he does not like already appointed European prosecutors – I have told you why he does not like them. Let's say it's Prosecutor Tanja Frank Eller, who, by the way, has proof of knowledge of English at the highest level of C2, so I don't know how Janša would like to get rid of it. Probably by canceling the entire procedure and forcing the appointment of completely other people, because that prosecutor fulfils all the conditions, including these new conjectures. Well, this prosecutor was involved in the preparation of a lawsuit under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin against Janez Janša. Matthew Ostir, but he did not remove the request of the SDS party and rejected the complaint against Pro Plus. Well, that's how our ruling SDS and Janša's policy pictured it. Personal insults, rematchism, gas, now we're in power, we can do anything, destroy everything and make the world our own way. But the fact that you are blocking the work of a European body, which has already been pointed out by European Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders, I mean, this is an international blemish, another in a series of international blemishes. It's not the first, and apparently not the last. But we do have a War on Specialists that we have become perfect exotics in this European Union. [[…]] It's embarrassing, really embarrassing, where we've slipped in a year. And that's not someone – now they're going to say again in the SDS, what we're making up. We're not making anything up! That's unacceptable! This actually points to the situation where the rule of law is with us. I mean disaster, come on! The fact that you are now imagining that there must be very few English-speaking European prosecutors. Well said, all right, these people know English well enough. Let's stop fooling around. Besides, their office will be in Ljubljana. They won't need it when they do, so don't worry. [[…]] They agree well enough, but otherwise they have translators available for the most challenging conversations in English, of course. And their first task is to be the top legal experts, not the English. This is the only thing — others have already mentioned how the fifth - ruling party of thorn prosecutors is concerned. Indeed, things have gone so far that the public prosecutors had to turn to the European institutions. Imagine, that's really depressed. The processes of decommissioning of the rule of law are truly, truly too severe. Ladies and gentlemen, take action! Hold on to the subject. You can't let this go. How can you let this go? You just can't let that happen. I mean, that's embarrassing. The Slovenian Society of Public Prosecutors has informed the Council of Europe of the numerous unacceptable pressures on prosecutors, which Prime Minister Janša has afforded. Pressures and violations, for example, are reflected in the suspension of appointments, the promotion of state prosecutors, in the insult of individual prosecutors by the President and other government representatives. In a 30% reduction in wages during the covida-19 epidemic, for example, all of this is happening to the prosecutor today, Minister. And what are you going to do? You're in the government, stop this practice. And the letter signed by President DDTS, High Prosecutor Miriam Kline, was sent to the Consultative Council of European Prosecutors, which operates within the framework of the Directorate-General of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and Rule of Law. As stated in the DDTS, they have long observed this exercise of pressure on the work of state prosecutors, and the direct reason for the notification of the pressure sent to Strasbourg is the suspension of these appointments of state prosecutors, which have been in line with pre-adopted criteria selected for posts at the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, and the designations of these two candidates, which today are particularly worded for because of this invention of marriage, what new prosecutors should know. Now, Minister, look, I really don't know what else to do in the opposition. What appeal should we make to you — who? All the professions are advertised, desperate signals are sent, literally desperate signals to Europe, because they can't find a hearing at home. Take action! That's your department. Take action or simply stop agreeing to it and do not support this horror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to join those who don't seem to have a problem naming prosecutors. Much has been said about the position of prosecutors. This was also said by the Venice Commission, which said that in some democratic system prosecutors enjoy a high degree of independence. They are not in exactly the same position as the judges, but there can be no government over the prosecutor; there can be no President of the Government; only the law can be against the prosecutor, and only the law that governs his work. That's why it seems to me that in the prosecution's appointment process we have a whole bunch of files lying somewhere in a drawer for a reason, that the government is not a postman and that it's not tied to any deadline. That fact seems extremely problematic to me. It is more than obvious that there is a politicisation of the prosecution procedure, and here I see no other way to prevent this than to start talking about whether the government should be the one with this authority at all. We also discuss similar matters when it comes to the appointment of judges. We get a proposal from the Council of Justice in the National Assembly. Of course, this has already happened in the past that the National Assembly has not followed the proposal of the Council of Justice, but we must find that in 99% of cases this has been done and that there has never been a politicisation of justice in such a way as to usurp what is going on with another body. The same applies to the Commonwealth Council. They're the ones who can judge whether someone is competent to do the job of the prosecutor. I can't imagine what I heard the last time I heard in the National Assembly, if the government wasn't just going to be the mailman, that anyone would be proposing a solution that will make the government judge who is the real prosecutor and who isn't. I believe that such procedures and such a way of appointing prosecutors are known only in North Korea and in various non-democratic systems, where the government, the executive branch of the government, with the help of the state apparatus, the repression of prosecutors and the police disciplines its citizens and citizens. So, in the democratic system, it is crucial that the recruitment and appointment of candidates also be made for the prosecution, which is somehow part of the repressive apparatus, so that it is carried out politically independently. In the SMC Group, we have tabled an amendment to cut at least this Gordy knot concerning the procedures for the appointment of state prosecutors. In Article 5a, we propose the introduction of the following text: “Despite the first and second paragraphs of Article 34 of the Appointment Procedures Act, which have not yet been completed before the entry into force of this Act, the State Prosecutors shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for justice, and all candidates who have prepared for the State Prosecutor's Office shall be served by a decision on appointment.” Notwithstanding the first and second paragraphs of Article 35, which speaks of an oath being made before the Government or under the authority of the President of the Government before the Minister, that is to say that the state prosecutors referred to in the preceding paragraph swear before the Minister responsible for justice. In view of the statements made by the Minister of Justice, who seeks to reach this urgent appointment of prosecutors, and here is more than an obvious dispute between, say, her and, I don't know, the Government, the President of the Government, the Secretary-General, those who give the material to the decision-making process, it is more obvious that we have to cut the matter down here if it doesn't work out differently, and this Gordic knot is cut down in the way that these prosecutors who are in the process are dealt with before the Ministry of Justice. What I would also like to point out is that, of course, even in the future, I mentioned this in the introduction, even in the future, we will have to discuss whether the regime should remain as it is. It is more than obvious that some countries that have a certain system of regulation, for example, by simply getting acquainted with the government or with ministers, that in some countries, especially probably older democracies, this system works, but we still know it – perhaps we do not have enough democratic tradition – to explain it in our own way. Some of them like that, if you don't get the government to be a postman and stuff. Perhaps one day the National Assembly will recall in a reference that the National Assembly will not be a postman and will not name what the Council of Justice proposes, for example, when we talk about judges. It would therefore be appropriate to start a debate today on whether the matter should remain the way it is, or perhaps because it is a matter of appointing officials who need to be professional in order to move matters to bodies that are primarily professional. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Those who have had a little look at this rather than a very extensive law can find that this law is essentially totally non-problem; it deals with certain issues of social status, employment status and so on, prosecutors who will serve as Delegated Prosecutors; in short, a rather unproblemable law. Except, of course, one provision that raises the necessary level of English knowledge and all the concerns that we or we know and are at the back of this law. This government, or any government of Janez Janša, I will say, has – and this is what some of us who have seen for a long time in Parliament, of course, on several occasions – outstanding problems in understanding the principle of the division of power, particularly when it comes to the relationship between the government and the judiciary, the judiciary. When it comes to the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly, it is not so problematic, because there is a coalition majority here, which, nevertheless, what the Government proposes, usually confirms, but has outstanding problems in understanding this other relationship, as is said, the Government-State Assembly. This has been shown many times, and this has proved to be true not least in the demonstrations of SDS members during proceedings, criminal proceedings, against their President and, of course, on various other occasions. And the one we are talking about today is such an eclectic display of this misunderstanding. Public prosecutors are still in the eyes – sometimes we personalize, we say – Janez Janša, but of course the circle of responsible is wider. They have this special status that they're guilty of a lot of things. Those who regularly attend meetings and are members of the Justice Committee know how they are constantly trying to set up certain additional control systems for prosecutors, determine what they are allowed to do, do not have to be further controlled when it comes to dismissing cases and so on. In short, it is a misunderstanding of independence and independence and a misunderstanding of the status of the Attorney General. In these debates, I always say that I personally think that the very state prosecutor's office or prosecutor's office, I must say, is the area where we have the most room for progress in the field of justice. I also explain in a number of different committees where this space is – this goes beyond the scope of today's debate – but it is certain that we cannot violate all of the established standards, the established principles not only within the European Union but also in the world; some of the principles resulting from the development of law, legal thought and understanding of democracy. And you can't judge the quality of the state prosecutor; whether he's progressing or not, whether he's ours or yours or what he is. You can't judge by taking a map of his ex-cases or even worse, one of his ex-cases and saying, look, this guy dropped my complaint, or this guy was on my team, but he told me to go on with the prosecution, or he was on the team representing this case before the court. This is completely wrong. This means that you are actually ordering prosecutors not to use the Constitution and the law in their work, which is the only thing they can and must apply, but to follow some other principles in their work. In fact, by putting pressure on them, you want and demand exactly what is bothering you. Even in a specific case, if someone estimates that, under the established procedure, a public prosecutor is a problem under the law only because of – these are rumours, I cannot put my hand in the fire, is it not – he was chosen only because he was involved in the proceedings concerning the President of the Government when it came to assessing his assets or what this procedure was already. In short, that's when this person fell into a pitiful state. The name and surname are completely irrelevant to me, and I object to his being mentioned at all. This is totally wrong, and this is also total pressure on the prosecution. If this amendment to the law is in the direction of higher education required only in order to eliminate two candidates, variant one, or in order for the procedure to be reopened, variant two, this is rejected and inadmissible. Seems like a small thing, but it's not. This is a fundamental issue of the relationship between the individual branches of government, the fundamental issue of political pressure on the political tops of the executive branch to the judicial branch or, in this case, on prosecutors. That this misunderstanding is with the ruling party and other members of the coalition, the NSIs always sunk so beautifully, because they are not guilty, we do not mention them, we only mention SDS. Even in the case of NSIs, this misunderstanding also shows that they supported the establishment of an investigative commission which would directly interfere with the functioning of the prosecutors and judges and assess whether they had assessed the evidence properly or not, whether they had made the right decision and so on. Where does that lead, my people?Oh, my God! Will five Members now, or seven, or nine without a legal education, without a function, court, prosecutor, whatever, without any practice, assess whether one prosecutor or one judge properly judged and properly worked in the proceedings? We are encroaching on something that is in the democratic world, in a democratic Europe, the sacrament. Decision-making in a specific case. We can intervene as the leadership of an institution, as the government's leadership, as the leadership of a state or whatever I want to say, irrespective of the level, in accordance with our powers. The Minister may also ask for clarifications as to why a case is so long and so long it does not move, why the proceedings stand, why the proceedings are not signed. All these cases relating to the operational, the judicial administration, the prosecutor's office, it's all within the policy remit or we say more specifically to the government. But neither the minister nor the president of the government can interfere with someone and say why you dropped the complaint there, but why you're not there, and why you were there on the team that was working against me, why you didn't get rid of yourself, or why you didn't know what to leave the job, so that you wouldn't persecute me. It's so unacceptable that I can't tell you how unacceptable and bad this is. And where does that lead? It leads to total repression, far from one Europe, far from some of the standards of democracy that we have already achieved, I hope, with us. Thus, I think more than the issue of these two prosecutors, which, of course, is an eclectic violation and an eclectic expression of what I am talking about, is indeed a problem of this misunderstanding of these principles of authority. There's something else I might have forgotten to say. Individual, specific procedures also have the right to control, to a certain extent, the executive branch, but through established means, through the Presidents of the courts, through the heads of the prosecutions, through control systems, internal ones established in these institutions, to request reports, to request clarifications, all of this; not to judge an individual by what and what he has been persecuting and what he has done in the past. The opposition here sometimes isn't much better to say. Some MEPs, for example, settled down a few months ago with one of the candidates, who was a candidate for one function, because it doesn't matter which one doesn't know which candidate it is, and he's been a lawyer his whole life. They said, you bastard, and he represented it there, and that's where he represented it, so there was a lawyer from this firm. Look, the lawyer represents the parties who come to him, unless he has ethical concerns, a couple of excellence, or I don't know what, it's his job, so there's a legal profession. And the prosecutor is in the world, in Slovenia and in the system to prosecute crimes and do everything else related to the prosecution of crimes, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And for anyone who dares to intervene here, we must be very concerned, so both of us will support this subject in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u266	Chairman, thank you very much. I'll start where Mr. Zorčič ends. I find this first SMC amendment somehow the most interesting, if I may put it that way. In your explanation, you say that this amendment seeks to achieve the implementation of the rule of law. In accordance with Article 34, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint prosecutors on a proposal from the Minister. Thus, the legal dictatorship is clear: on the proposal of the Minister. In this proposed case, however, it also seems to me that there is some way of blackmailing at all costs, in particular for these two prosecutors, whom I do not personally know, I have no idea what they have done in the past. This is where I leave my judgment to the State Prosecutor's Council, but it seems to me that your proposed dictatorship is unacceptable. The current outstanding procedures or calls for proposals would now be carried out by the Minister following this dictatorship. I'm asking you here why. You say, to achieve the implementation of the rule of law. It seems to me that, once again, the explanation drawn to the hair. The State Prosecutor's Council sent these two proposals specifically to the Ministry of Justice, and they were then sent to the Government for information, and the Government has not yet been informed of this proposal. Then, once it is done, I think that the competent institution of the European Union needs to be sent here and that this semi-final selection will be made in Luxembourg. As far as the process of appointing someone to a job is concerned, I think we all know that this is a process. Personally, I have read the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, and here some terrible direct connection to retroactivity I really don't see. These prosecutors have not yet been appointed, they have not yet been appointed, so the procedure has not been de facto completed; as has been said, the Government has not actually been aware of this. That is why I think this second amendment of the SMC, which is more similar to the first one of the LMŠ or the only one of the LMŠ – and more about it later. I think it's kind of a premeditated question of retroactivity. That's how I look at it. If I may put it this way: the “right” to be a European Delegated Prosecutor has not yet been created. It has not yet been created, and it is said, that this procedure, which has not yet been completed, cannot be affected by this acquired right because the Government has not come to know it. I think, Mrs Hefferle, that this proposal of yours is somewhat of a variation on the subject of that question of yours, which you already had on Monday to the Prime Minister of the Government. But that is exactly how I understood it, too, probably because it has been explicitly said that the procedure is still being checked and that until the answers to these legal or formal questions are clear, the government will not be aware of this. That's what was said. Now you know that the law does not set a time limit; no time limit does it set for the Government to get to know this choice of the State Prosecutor's Council. Here I think that we are not the right addressees, that we will now persecute the government in this awareness, when even the law does not prescribe it. Now this. I had also heard Mrs Sukič before: yes, terrible drama, the situation is critical. Mrs. Sukich, look, we're not late, we're not late. In the final phase of eight countries, this process has so far been completed in the EU, eight countries. So I don't think we're really on the tail of this procedure right now, so here I think we're far from a critical situation, well. One short timeline, so little for a review, for a citizen's review, or maybe some loving lawyer who's watching us. The College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall be held on 30 June. 9. 2020 adopted a decision setting out English as the working language of the EGTC for operational and administrative activities. You have read the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where it has explained that the Republic of Slovenia wishes and, of course, seeks to work effectively with the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors, so this amendment of the proposed articles provides that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor should have the knowledge of the EJT working language at least at C1 level. At least at C1 level. A public call by the Ministry of Justice to state prosecutors for the submission of nominations – this now moves to point two – for the appointment of these two European Delegated Prosecutors on 9 October 2020. This public call, if you have read it, has given priority to candidates with knowledge of the English language at a high level. Despite the fact that it has been said that you will be working here in Ljubljana, these two European Delegated Prosecutors, however, I do not think that these professional terms will be used here, but they are of this level of C1, so I do, Mrs Sukič, think this is such an important information that they will be working in Ljubljana. They will meet with legal terminology in English, of course, as they will still monitor the dedicated use of EU funds. So now that Ljubljana is mentioned here as some relevant reference, I don't think it's okay. The language table in the European reference scale shows that the level of efficiency is classified into a high level of foreign language knowledge, C1, and C2, mastery – that you are essentially a native speaker to speak that way. Nevertheless, in this proposal, the government has said that C1 is the criterion that we are now discussing. I think that the proposal for the novel ZDT-1E, which is before us, legally governs this high level of foreign language knowledge here, this level C1 which has already been requested in an invitation to state prosecutors to apply for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors on 9 October 2020. I think you may be overly concerned about this appointment. I don't know, or I don't see why. I think it will happen both in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. But once again, if we are some legalists now, that the government must first become aware of this, that is a fact. Once again, it has been said that the Government will become aware of this procedure once again until the answers to these formal questions are clear. That seems very transparent to me, okay, so I personally don't see the problem here. Once again, honourable candidates from both the opposition LMŠ and the coalition SMC, these three amendments seem unnecessary to me and cannot be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u268	All right, buddy, what are you guys doing up here? I'm not the one who's calling the D.A. What's that supposed to mean? You're interfering with the D.A.'s work. You will – what? Monitoring their procedures? Are you qualified to oversee their procedures? I hear you'll believe in the expertise of an independent branch of government. What do you think you're doing? Stop painting us, that the government has not come to know that the water is not burning, but that only eight countries have completed the procedures so far. Do we have to be last in every thing since you've been in power? Really? Do we have to be such an example? In addition, prosecutor Tanja Frank Eller has excellent English skills – she has contributed to the English level C2. So this is where your acrobatics don't drink water. I believe that Matthew Ostir speaks English fluently, after all, he has been in contact with the European institution that is being established here, and believe that they have also looked there at how someone speaks English. So stop it, come on. I'm really asking you to stop. Why are we all surprised and so on and we don't trust you? You're obviously interfering with the work of the judicial branch of power. My colleague Masha told you, you have no idea how divided power is in this country. You think everything is under your jurisdiction when Janez Janša rules. I'm very sorry, but you're obviously imagining this. The government did not get to know each other — why did she not get to know each other? And why do you think we wouldn't put guards in this marriage to touch these things? Because you also imagine that you can make a difference. But you can't. You just can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Zlatko Ratej has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u270	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Given the need to ensure other conditions for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to take this opportunity to inform the National Assembly of the activities of the Ministry. So far, we have provided several normative bases that you, honourable Members, have already supported. Last summer, in the framework of the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, we provided a legal basis for assessing the State Prosecutor's Office for the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor. This is part of the tasks to be performed by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In the context of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, we have adapted the procedural provisions necessary for the entry into force of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Then, in September, with the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we also provided conditions for a maximum of five additional jobs for the purposes of the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We have also provided spatial conditions that will be in the premises of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. In this place, let me add that at the Ministry we still care about working conditions for the state prosecutor's office. The Ministry shall, in accordance with the legislation in the material and technical field of the Prosecutor's Office, provide appropriate business premises, technical equipment and appropriate information support. Therefore, at the beginning of this year, we rented additional premises for the purposes of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, allowing for the full relocation of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office to the location on the market OF in Ljubljana. We have therefore provided appropriate working conditions for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in these premises. In the field of computer science, we provide services for the functioning of their key registration computer system, for which we are currently carrying out a comprehensive renovation project. A digitisation project is also under way which will allow the installation of information infrastructure in a single location, thus reducing the security risk of information operations and the project is already in its final stage. The Ministry managed to provide 97 and a half million funds for 2021, this year, as €22 million is more than it had available last year, representing approximately €6 million for the judicial authorities. We also provide significant resources in the context of the Operation Effective Justice, which is aimed at information upgrades to the prosecution's operations. Given the substantial budgetary resources available to us in this year and the following year, we are much easier to implement the policy pursued, which I believe will enable the prosecution to operate effectively at all levels. Let me also touch on the conditions for the operation of European Delegated Prosecutors. The Ministry is with 1. 2. by moving the State Attorney's Office to another location, as I mentioned earlier, it has provided premises for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office at the location of the Market OF in Ljubljana. As I explained earlier, for two European prosecutors and five public servants who will be supported. The European Public Prosecutor's Office also has room to store evidence in one of the additional offices. There is also room in the basement, which is under video surveillance. The location also includes a room for storage of classified information. In collecting the needs for a service vehicle in the framework of a joint public contract for this year run by the Ministry of Public Administration, the Special Prosecutor has requested two vehicles. The existing fleet of specialised state prosecutors already covers five service vehicles. Any of these vehicles may also be allocated to the European Prosecutor. So much for my clarification that we are aware of the importance of the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office at the Ministry, and that I would end up in this place perhaps later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good evening, Madam Secretary of State! All the praises and congratulations for all the activities you just described. On my part, no such evidence has ever come to your attention, and I will not even today question your actions, because I am aware that the Minister has done everything in her power, from the point of view of her powers, formally, in order for these two European Delegated Prosecutors to be named. I'm sincerely saddened, colleague Kaloh, by your thinking. But you have a perfectly legitimate right to make such a change, but it grieves me in particular from this point of view, because I know that you are a lawyer, I know that you are from the legal profession, and I believe you have this knowledge, that you understand what the problem is, when we are all actually alerting you to the problem of retroactivity of this novel that is ahead of us. I believe that, with regard to the words of the President of the Government, when he stated that the procedures regarding the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors are still being checked and that the Government will not be informed by then, you know that there is no formal, formal question regarding this procedure. The law here is perfectly clear and perfectly simple. The choice shall be made by the State Prosecutor's Council, a professional examination shall be carried out before the selection, verification of the conditions for compliance and so on, and shall transmit its choice in the form of a proposal to the Ministry, the Ministry of Government, the Government shall be informed thereof. There is no legal void here that would require any kind of examination of the procedure and so on, as you spoke of. This really saddens me – that on all the weights you try to find some way, some mouse hole in a marriage that is not, in my opinion, but you want to find it. All because two already elected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor are not pleased with your boss. This is a sad fact for me for our democracy. My colleague Maša has already explained very well to you what is the essence of the division of power, the essence of which is that it does not interfere with policy in terms of the professional sphere of prosecution in the country. What you do in your coalition or in your government is a major problem. And here to make no mistake, Madam Minister, words don't fly at you. This whole attempt of yours to somehow uproot these two already selected candidates through this new condition of the required English language, has fallen into the water, as we have seen in the public eye that both candidates have even this new required knowledge of English C1. You failed here because your agenda was more than obvious. However, there is a problem with this amendment in terms of retroactivity, because if you allow the legal text to be adopted in such a form as it is now, without these proposed amendments, you will in fact create a very cross field in which you will be able to interpret that this current procedure, which is still in progress – and that we are very exact, colleague Kaloh, this process is divided into two stages, a selection process that is already completed, and these two candidates have already obtained their right by having been confirmed and a process of familiarity that we know is formal nature or is declarant nature. On Monday, I said that if the interest were to follow the law, the government would have done this briefing in two minutes at any of the previous meetings. The question of retroactivity arises in the sense that when this provision or these two articles, which now prescribe this higher level of English knowledge, is now easily interpreted by you, yes, but now we have a new condition, so this procedure, which you think is still in progress, has to stop, because now there are other conditions under which the two already selected candidates have not been assessed. Although they have the condition of knowledge in English C1, at least according to the information available in the media, for some formal, principled reasons, you will be able to completely cancel this process, return to the original phase and somehow, I do not hope to imagine how, press on the State Prosecutor's Council to hand over two other candidates who will be more pleased with Mr President of the Government. There is a problem here, and the issue of retroactivity is not intended, as you said, Mr Kaloh. You are reminded of the question of retroactivity by the State Prosecutor's Council in its opinion on this novel, which it has issued. You are being warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we, Members of the judiciary, have spoken today, and I am grateful to him for this and I congratulate him on his speech. This scheming of yours, if there's nothing wrong with what we're going to do, do panic where we don't have to, and exaggerate in all this and so on, don't drink water if we look at the matter from all angles, and especially if we shed light on the agenda behind this novel. As I have already said, these two are, in my opinion, controversial articles on the level of English knowledge – because you are demanding the highest level of English knowledge, while the European Public Prosecutor's Office as an institution requires a satisfactory level of English knowledge as a working language. From the point of view of these two European Delegated Prosecutors, this is all the more reasonable if we know that these two Prosecutors will apply Slovenian law, will use Slovenian language, will operate in Slovenia and will have a translator, if I am not mistaken, to communicate with the headquarters of Strasbourg. At the same time, of course, you speak sufficient English. However, anyone who completes the seventh stage has so much English knowledge that he is said to be able to communicate in it at some operational level, for which this working language is even envisaged, for an operational level. As far as the use of expertise is concerned, they will, as I said, have to use Slovenian law, Slovenian language. I'm deeply saddened by this treachery. Mr Kaloh, I know that you know Article 155 of the Constitution, but I will read it to you so that the audiences will hear, if they may follow us, the prohibition of retroactivity, the prohibition of retroactivity: "Laws, other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect on the back. Only the law may stipulate that individual provisions of its provisions have a retroactive effect,” be careful “if this requires public benefit and if this does not prejudice the rights obtained.” However, I see no public benefit in determining a higher level of English knowledge if it is not justified in any European legislation, unless there is a condition for the quality and professional functioning of a delegated European prosecutor. There is no public benefit, it is some fault of the Slovenian government, which bears this terrible agenda, how to get rid of these two candidates. Plus, the second condition for retroactivity is not met if you want, the retroactivity must not be such that it takes away or interferes with any rights already acquired. I have already said that the procedure for selecting candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor consists of two stages. One stage is the selection process, it is already completed and the second stage is at the declarant level, the familiarisation process. When you say that the rule of government knowledge, its duty is blank, it is said that there is no prescribed effect nor the deadline in which the government must get to know itself, yes, here I even give you right, it is true, there is no hand. But, you say, we're not late, we're not breaking any hands – of course we're breaking our hands. On 1 March, Slovenia had to conclude its procedures for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors. This is the deadline we're delaying, and the government is late. The Ministry of Justice has done its job, the proposal has sent out a timely notice, but the government, with all due respect, is very unfairly delaying these procedures and in my opinion it is throwing a very bad light on, if you like, the degree of rule of law that is in our country, throwing a bad light on the institution of the prosecution and, last but not least, throwing a bad light on itself, on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Since I have not seen so much contempt on the part of any government, at least in connection with these interferences in the prosecution sphere or the interference between the various branches of government. Although I know that the prosecution formally belongs to the executive branch of power, yet the Constitution gives the prosecution special status. No President of the Government has the right to interfere in the prosecutor's sphere in the manner permitted by your President of the Government, Mr Kaloh. If Mr Janša, with all due respect for him, understands the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in this article, which speaks of the appointment and introduction of European Delegated Prosecutors, in a postal manner, that is not our problem, that is his problem. But the law is clear, exact and simple. Therefore, once again, these amendments that are before us today are important and it is very important that we accept them. Since we will only prevent this attempt to involve the Government in this process, the two candidates already selected will fail. Just like that. As you are warned, as I have already said, both in the State Prosecutor's Council and in the Legal and Legislative Service, that without such amendments in the transitional and final provisions you allow retroactive application of the law, which does not meet the conditions for retroactive application. Both must be met cumulatively. Here you are interfering with the acquired rights and here you do not show any public benefit in order to reach back. As for the more general, indirect impact on the prosecution in Slovenia, I also strongly associate myself with the words of the President of the Zorčič National Assembly, which is the principle of the proper appointment of both prosecutors and judges in Slovenia. We know that when it comes to appointing prosecutors, it is the Government that watches over this procedure, but when it comes to appointing judges, it is the National Assembly that watches over this procedure. In any case, no principle of brake and balance between the three branches of government justifies the fact that such appointment would still continue to be valid. I think it is worth considering that the whole process of appointing prosecutors and judges is being revised, because – unfortunately or fortunately, if we can change this – we have now, in the present times, seen that at the time of your government can really become a big problem, but it can really interfere with one of the branches of government in an illegal and even illegal way. You've just shown us this. We are now aware of this problem. If this government were not such a government, we might not have come to these questions at all because they would not be on the agenda, but we are now facing them. I think and even in the LMŠ, we have taken the view several times that it is necessary to make a reflection and a comprehensive overhaul of the procedures for the appointment of judges and prosecutors. Because these are such important institutions that are doing our country a rule of law to deserve a slightly more transparent and non-political assessment of their functions. Although I am prepared here, I will not specifically mention the Association of Public Prosecutors of Slovenia, but I must comment. It truly grieves me that, respected by the coalition, you have prepared that the Association of State Prosecutors of Slovenia has been forced to write, to sue, if you wish, or not to sue, desperately to seek support in Europe, because there are such and other indirect and direct pressures on the prosecution here under this government. It truly grieves me. More than talking, I can't point to this from this place where I am. But it still seems to me that someone in this national council should say mea culpa, and things got out of hand. Above all, those of you who are from the legal profession who I believe you understand a little bit more or in a slightly different way you can understand this problem. That I won't be too long. I think I've commented on everything. About our amendment. It speaks of the fact that this new regime should not apply to the procedures that are under way, since, last of all, these two candidates have applied under the conditions laid down by the law at the time, and have been expertly judged under the conditions laid down by the law at the time, they are still, but you will change it with this amendment. So I also welcome the amendments of the SMC Group, which may deal in more detail with this problem if you want, and also address the problem of state prosecutors, where the matter is a little different. Here we know that practically, if I'm not mistaken, seven cases have been quite a good time, a few months, if not more than six months, I don't know. Given that we are lagging behind or that there is a lot of work on the State's Attorney's Office for the lack of state prosecutors, it is not understandable why the Government is waiting to appoint new state prosecutors. Incomprehensible, unacceptable. That is why I also welcome this amendment to Article 5a. Finally, Mr Kaloh, I may answer your questions about this amendment, where you have described nicely that, following the current legal regime, of course, he appoints the State Prosecutors Government on a proposal from the Minister, but it is in the interests of the rule of law that these prosecutors, who have been waiting for so many months to be appointed, are finally appointing, and I will explain to you why this retroactivity is justified here. Public interest requires the appointment of new prosecutors, public interest, and most importantly, it is without prejudice to the rights already acquired. Because the D.A. doesn't have that right yet. It is said that by retroactive use we will not deprive them of justice, but we will give them the right. You know, marriage can do more for the better back than it can do for the better. So your arguments here do not hold up and this amendment is also needed. I am very sorry that this is how we regulate things, that we live in such a country, where it is necessary to intervene in such a way in law, that things move forward, that the current state of affairs intersects, that these direct pressures on prosecutors are cut down, but that is currently the only option. I can't help but support this SMC amendment. As I say, I hope that someone else understands the importance of this subject and the complexity that has arisen. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u274	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. The Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office provides for the European Public Prosecutor's Office as a national and independent prosecutor's body established to prosecute perpetrators and offences affecting the financial resources of the European Union. It is foreseen and determined that this will be done without interference from the Member States or other institutions of the European Union and is similar to that of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The law before us today is not in itself problematic, nor is it from the point of view of the English language. Why do I think so? The working language of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is the English language. The College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in its act, laid down the conditions for action, setting as a necessary basic knowledge one of the basic languages of the European Union, meaning that in the Slovenian case it is Slovenian and a satisfactory knowledge of the other language of the European Union, to the extent that it makes it possible to carry out its work. Under such conditions and under such conditions, the invitation to tender was also published. However, the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not provide that countries should not act differently, so they may also lay down higher conditions. The proposal before us proposes a higher level of English knowledge and is similar to what they have in Germany. The government is pursuing the objective of proposing professionals who have the necessary knowledge in particular in cases where the European Public Prosecutor is replaced. At the Ministry of Justice, we also considered the issue of retroactivity in the drafting of legislation and orally consulted the Office of the Government of Law. The opinion prevailed that the two stages in this process and that the Ministry's decision not to put these provisions into law were based primarily on the completion of the verification phase of the selection procedures in the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is different, so that any retroactive application can present a legal challenge. It is also possible to amend the legislation referred to by the President of the Government in his reply to the question. The Regulation does not regulate the candidate procedure for European public prosecutors and also for European Delegated Prosecutors. Twenty-two Member States have joined this European Public Prosecutor's Office and have set up their own nomination procedures. At the Ministry, we joined in the first verification of the comparative regime and received information on the various arrangements. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have given the prosecution a high degree of autonomy and have given the State Prosecutor's Council a key role in the selection of European Delegated Prosecutors. The fact is that the legislator can regulate legislation differently. The comparative review of the appointment of prosecutors in particular, since the countries have followed the selection of candidates in particular in the process they have set up for the appointment of state prosecutors, concludes that, in some cases, the prosecutions are fully independent and sometimes independent and have high powers, and that the Minister of Justice has great powers and sometimes has powers of government. So, the systems are different, and what's important is that we have built-in braking systems and balances. I myself said in my statement that, of course, it is also possible to talk about amending legislation and that the procedure in force must also be respected. If we look at what the procedure for proposing candidates is for us. It follows from the explanation of the law that a reasonable similar procedure is applied to the appointment of state prosecutors by simplifying it. This means that the procedure is very similar to the appointment of state prosecutors, the difference is that the Government does not decide, but in this case it is only aware, which means that the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council is given more weight than the appointment of state prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia. The State Prosecutor's Council shall, after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General, identify and draw up a list of candidates and forward them to the Ministry of Justice and shall notify the candidates themselves. The Ministry of Justice, however, shall forward the list of candidates to the Government, which shall be informed and forwarded to the competent institution of the European Union, the European Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the timing of the appointment or selection of candidates for European Delegated Prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia, I should say that the deadlines for the European Public Prosecutor or the European Public Prosecutor's Office to act have constantly changed and shifted. The first one was foreseen for the first one. 11. 2020, hereinafter referred to as 1. 3. 2021, now 1. 4. 2021. So it appears that it is not that simple and that other countries are also facing this problem. At the Ministry of Justice, we have taken a proactive approach to meeting the conditions for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to provide both a normative basis and all other necessary content, equipment, money provision and everything else, as the Secretary of State has already said. A public call to apply has been published 9. Ten. 2020, that is, as soon as the College of the European Public Prosecutor adopted the general conditions under which it is possible to hire European Delegated Prosecutors, and also immediately after the formal review of the applications, he resigned to the State Prosecutor's Office, i.e. 4. 11. 2020, as the deadline for the application has expired 26. Ten. 2020. The state-of-the-art council is four. 12. Then transmitted the choice, the proposal for a selection or candidate list to the Ministry of Justice for two delegated prosecutors, which was forwarded by the Ministry of Justice to the Government 9. 12. 2020. If we look at the legislation still in force and what the Government determines. Here I must agree that the current regime does not set any time limit. It is of great importance that such provisions exist, and practice shows that the National Assembly must establish both the executive branches of the authorities and the President of the Republic or other institutions that decide or have the right to become aware of the barriers and balances, deadlines. Above all, the time frame for the decision is also important in terms of legal certainty, because it is precisely on the basis of the deadline that legal consequences may arise. The legal standard is the one that binds state authorities. It is for the sake of the practice that has emerged that we also foresee the establishment of such deadlines in the State Prosecutor's Office Act 1E, not only for the Government, but for everyone in the decision-making phase, and the law is already coalitionly coordinated. Only on the basis of such deadlines can legal consequences arise and others may enforce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u276	Thank you. I don't have much time, but I do have time for Mrs. Hefferlet's performance. The EJT headquarters will be in Luxembourg, not Strasbourg. When we talked about the condition of language fulfillment – I think this is a matter of interpretation. During what period will this be re-validated? As I said, the procedure is still pending and why would this C1 problem be now? The Minister has now stated on her own that the countries of these required entry levels of language knowledge have determined themselves; in Germany, I think even the C2 level is. Once again, I would like to stress that the amendment of this Act establishes a C1 level, which is quite appropriate. I think that Slovenia must nevertheless strive to send the most qualified prosecutors to EJT in the field of language knowledge, English. So I wouldn't bother here. The law is well written. I think that this addition to these two articles is in some ways merely complementary, and I think that this high level of language is also the answer to the EJT College, which has actually decided that the working and operational language should be English. Of course, we will support the law, but we cannot, once again, support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Replica? [[No, no, ……]] I'll do it again. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, but I must respond to Mr Kaloh's words. The fact is that this change you are proposing on the level of English language knowledge will now be accepted, that is a fact. I don't even bother now that this higher level of C1 is required. In my debate, I tried to show you what the real problem is and where your hidden political agenda for this change is. Since you were convinced that these two already selected candidates did not have a sufficient level of English knowledge, you first wanted to make this change in such an elegant way and you proposed a change based on a higher knowledge of English. In the meantime, when it became known to the public that both candidates have the ultimate knowledge of English, your boss, Mr Kaloh, has announced a new novel that will revise the entire selection process and familiarisation of these candidates as European Delegated Prosecutor, and this is where the problem lies. These persistences and attempts of yours, how would you get these two chosen candidates out of the world? That's what I was talking about in my debate, and you obviously didn't get me very well. Of course, the law is perfectly clear. Right now, the government needs to know, nothing more than that. If it's a post office law, God help me, it's just the way it is. These two candidates were chosen on the basis of this legal standard. You cannot delay the whole process now, because the President of the Government does not like to return all things to the beginning and carry out the new selection process. That's what I'm talking about. When you do not have in your proposal a novel that is before us today, transitional and final provisions that would provide or determine that this new regime will be applied further, you are creating the possibility of retroactive application of the law. If your intentions were truly sincere and not "let us give this knowledge to the C1 for the efficiency of the European Prosecutor's Office", it is only to be honest that we would have no difficulty in supporting the transitional and final provisions that would say that these changes are being applied in the future. As you have seen, both candidates have this knowledge of degree C1, as much as you demand today in these changes. So if we were honest in our intentions, I will repeat it again, we would support the changes or amendments that your changes are being used for the future, because there is no fear that these two candidates would not know English, as we see. But of course, because your intentions are not sincere, but you are looking for the boundaries of how these two candidates would leave behind and start procedures again, you are opposed to such provisions as would define the application of the law, as well as to what everyone is alerting you to – that European Delegated Prosecutors use Slovenian language, Slovenian law, will work in Slovenia. This fear of knowledge of English is therefore only with you and I will repeat it again, just and exclusively with one agenda – after the political appointment of two new candidates, who I do not know which two should have been, but those two who are now chosen certainly not because they are going in your nose. So much for your well-intention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Too dear Baković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u280	Thank you very much. My colleagues Tina and Maša made it clear, but it is not too important if I once again point out some of the facts, why we are discussing this issue today, why this is important. The first fact is that the government is disturbed by the appointment of the two chosen prosecutors, otherwise I would have been familiar with it by now. From the media, we can also understand why it bothers her, and I would not discuss it here, and there has been a lot of talk. The second fact is that the government can't influence this right now. So, the prosecutors were already elected, they went through this process, and the second part of the procedure is declarative, as we have heard, so that the government is only aware of it – but it is not. It is necessary at this point, as, I will say, a good chess player – which I am not myself, not to be misunderstood – to set up some conditions that will block this procedure of already elected prosecutors, to return to an initial state where new proposals will then come in, which may be more acceptable. And of course, to bring this procedure to a new one, it is necessary to give some new conditions. Therefore, the conditions for needing English knowledge are tightened, and I will say unusually difficult compared to what is happening in the European Union. We have also heard from the Minister that, in fact, there is nothing out of the ordinary that we may also be able to impose stricter conditions, but, as has been said, new conditions or conditions are being put in place for a process that has been practically completed to change or revert back. I must say that I see no overstatement in the fact that these language conditions are exacerbated. The prosecutors will work in Slovenia, and the working language is mostly Slovenian, so it is only here that these conditions are established so that the final procedure of this appointment is not completed. I must say that I am extremely pleased with the amendments that in some way prevent this, and, of course, my conviction also strengthens what colleague Tina pointed out that if it did not, then the biggest coalition party would also support these amendments because they are not actually harmful. As we can see, the selected candidates also have knowledge of the foreign language of grade C1 and, in fact, there would be no damage to the back, but it is obvious. It is therefore extremely important that these amendments come and that we will in some way prevent them. Otherwise, in the future, if you want C1, you'll have C1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled for the new Article 5a and for the new Article 5b. Since the amendments of the LMŠ Group for the new Article 5a and the amendment of the SMC Group for the new Article 5b refer to the same content, we will discuss them together. I am therefore putting to the debate the amendments of the LMŠ Group for a new Article 5a and the SMC Group amendment for a new Article 5b. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, 26 March 2021, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a bill to protect children in the criminal procedure and their entire treatment in the house for children within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u282	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The project house for children is already very well known in Slovenia. To that end, the debate on the Justice Committee of the Fathers, as well as in the State Council of Solutions, has also shown broad support. The project started in 2017 with the establishment of a special working group which had a deadline for the preparation of a proposal for the establishment of a children's home by the end of 2023. I am proud to say that we are going to get ahead of him in concrete terms, and at this point, I thank all those who are actively working on this project. Slovenia is always highly ranked by comparative scales on the accessibility of justice for children. The bill is a demonstration of our firm conviction that this is not enough, as we still do not have the appropriate model for dealing with children in the Slovenian criminal procedure. The bill is prepared according to the Barnahus model and coordinates both the special treatment of children and victims or witnesses of crime, as a rule with elements of violence in criminal proceedings, and procedures for the protection and support of children. The bill provides that the integrated treatment of children will be a public service provided by the State in a special public institution. This will be responsible for certain types of performance work and will play an important role in organising and providing training. The treatment in the institution is provided for children who are victims and witnesses of crimes affecting the integrity of the child, for example crimes against sexual inviolability and life and body. Under certain conditions and on the basis of an individual assessment, it will also be possible to deal with juvenile delinquents. The law defines different treatment procedures, namely hearing the child, physical examination of the victim, crisis support and psychosocial assistance. It is crucial that the court retains the high procedural conduct of the hearing itself. The institution only takes over the organisation and implementation. It is also crucial that this preserves the role and function of other institutions in this area, such as social work centres and, last but not least, the police. Both the hearing and the physical examination shall be carried out on the basis of the order of the court, where the hearing shall be conducted by means of videoconference equipment, where the judge raises questions and they shall be asked by a specially qualified expert and the participants shall be in separate premises. Prior to this, a special preparatory meeting is envisaged where participants agree on important facts and circumstances for the conduct of the hearing. The suspect already has at this stage a guaranteed counsel by official duty if he has not chosen him himself. In the case of physical examination, the institution shall provide only premises and other assistance in such a way as to ensure to the maximum extent that the child is treated with due consideration. Contrary to the other principles of the Slovenian criminal procedure, there is a primary provision for a review of medical documentation. Children will also be provided with crisis support and psychosocial assistance. The first is foreseen during the proceedings in the children's home and the second one will be available for a maximum of six months after the child's treatment, with the institution further connecting with other institutions in this area. The bill also prescribes high standards of competence of professionals of the house for children and the institution will provide training for other professional profiles facing these sad situations. The proposal was developed in cooperation with a number of domestic and foreign experts with the support of the Council of Europe and the European Union. By means of the Norwegian financial mechanism, we are already regulating the premises of the first children's house for a pilot period, with this money we will also train and employ the necessary personnel. It's going to be a phased operation. First for one category of children, then for everyone else, and in the future it will be possible to expand to other locations in Slovenia. If business conditions are met, I propose that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. I sincerely thank everyone for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on the protection of children in criminal proceedings and their integrated treatment in the children's home was considered by the Committee on Justice as a mother's labour force at its 24th session 11. 3. 2021. Representative of the proposed Minister of Justice, Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich said in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law provides adequate protection for children involved in criminal proceedings and regulates their integrated treatment in the Barnahus model house and complements existing criminal legislation with a view to pursuing the greatest benefit of the child and preventing unnecessary secondary victimisation and hardship of these children. The proposed law sets out the institutional framework, principles and procedures for the protection of minors and witnesses of defined offences in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings and their integrated treatment. The implementation of the comprehensive treatment of children is defined as a public service provided by the State and includes hearings of the child, physical examination of the child and crisis support and psychosocial assistance to children. Ms Maček Gustin, representative of the Law and Law Service, presented a written legal opinion and said that most of the comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that the law would have to be adequately interpreted in the rest of the work. The bill was supported by all the invited institutions, both the State Council, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, as well as the others who were invited, but pointed out some open questions. Thus, Chief Justice Marjeta Švab Širok warned that the compulsory participation of the legal representative of the child in the integrated treatment procedures in the children's home could cause problems. Dr Blaž Kovačič Mlinar, a lawyer, said that by disclosing the defence tactics at the preparatory meeting and by allowing the judicial will to decide whether to allow additional questions at the hearing to be allowed disproportionately to the right of the accused to defence or to a fair trial. In the debate, Members welcomed the proposed law, which will enable children to be treated in an integrated manner in a safe and environmentally friendly children's house, which will also help to bring about a faster and more effective procedure, and in particular to prevent additional hardship and secondary victimisation of children who, as a society, could not be adequately protected from the cruel experience of the crime that could be recorded for life. They warned that sexual abuse of children is still a taboo topic in our society, although they are very common. The MPs were interested in the number of planned children's houses and the estimated number of children under consideration. They also pointed out the possibility of problems in relation to the compulsory participation of the legal representative of the child in the integrated treatment procedures in the children's house, highlighted the mandatory consent of the legal representative of the child under the age of 15 to be included in the crisis support and psychosocial assistance. The representative further explained that the proposed law puts the child’s best interests at the forefront and the Law on Criminal Procedures the effectiveness of the procedure and the right to defence. The house for children is envisaged in Ljubljana during the first period of application of the law and could later be in additional locations. In the first phase, up to 170 children are scheduled to be treated annually. With regard to warnings concerning the compulsory participation of a legal representative of the child, he explained that the Family Code provides for the appointment of a conflict-of-law guardian to a child whose benefits are in conflict with the interests of his legal representative. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SDS, SMC and NSI parliamentary groups and voted on all articles of the bill together and unanimously adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u286	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We therefore have before us a law on the protection of children in criminal proceedings. This law creates a legal basis for the establishment of a safe house for children, which means multidisciplinary treatment and an integrated approach to the treatment of children. The establishment of a safe house project is therefore intended to protect children who are either involved in criminal proceedings or victims or witnesses of violence, in particular sexual abuse, sexual violence and harassment. So we want to create a safe environment for children who are already in an extremely difficult situation that leaves many consequences for life. In the past, we have spoken several times about this very sensitive but still quite silently about the subject. We also talked about this on the Human Rights Commission when I ran it myself, and then experts in this area, who have been working with sexually abused children for many years, said what the protocol on child protection must be. The project of a safe house for children has been followed by the experience of the international public, in particular, which started the project in some countries. I am pleased that in the National Assembly we also had a virtual presentation of a safe house, and it was said that the first such house was established in Norway in 2007. Today, there are 11 such houses and about 6,000 children are interrogated each year. On the committee where we have already discussed this law, I asked the Secretary of State whether there would be only one such house in Slovenia or there would be more in the municipalities, in the regions, and then he said that this time it was a pilot house in Ljubljana, and then they would try to set up similar houses elsewhere. We therefore want to ensure a safe environment, and in particular health care for children, which is a key content of the safe house. It is therefore an interinstitutional, comprehensive treatment of a child from the third to 16 years of age who has been subjected to sexual abuse or violence. A comprehensive approach is taking place in a safe house and not only covers police hearings, but also includes integrated psychological, social and health care, as all children have the right to protection and abused children need the same care regardless of who has abused them and whether or not a crime has already been committed. A child is at risk at a time like this or may be at risk. At the end of the day, let me say something else about the analyses that foreign experts have done. They provide the following data relating to child sexual abuse. Sexual abuse is estimated to range from 19 to 27% of girls and from 9 to 16% of boys. The average age of abuse is estimated to be between nine and 10 years. Most of the causers are 10 or more years older than the victim. Sexual abuse is expected to start for 22% of boys and 23% of girls before the age of eight. Children with special needs are more often victims of sexual abuse. Girls more often expose sexual abuse than boys. Most abuses are planned. I am pleased that we have established this legal basis to finally get a safe house, and I hope that then these houses will spread to other parts of Slovenia. We will certainly support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u288	Good evening again! In the LMŠ Group, we believe that the protection and quality of life of children must be continuously improved, as unfortunately we also record violations of children's rights in Slovenia. Of course, we support the establishment of a system to facilitate the situation of children who are victims of crime. It is very important for children that all procedures concerning the treatment of crimes, where children perform either as witnesses or as victims, could be done in one place that will be more child-friendly than the courtroom. This protects them at least a little from the re-emergency of the trauma. In LMŠ we are pleased that things in this area are moving for the better, but we also need to be aware that there are still some shortcomings in the system. In the light of these improvements, we therefore welcome the Barnhouse project or the children's home, as we stand alongside the most developed countries. In fact, it all started in 2018 when the Ministry of Justice, together with representatives of the European Union, agreed to co-finance the children's home project. This is why the current Minister of Justice is praised today as well as the current one, which led to the end of the project earlier than originally envisaged. It is of paramount importance that, in addition to the rapid and effective treatment of the affected child, treatment and professional treatment be provided. The hearing, physical examinations and other crisis and psychological assistance to the child will be carried out in one place, as it will be said, a house for children that will provide the child with greater intimacy and, above all, a safer shelter. While we have been generously alerted on the committee to some shortcomings in the legal text which could in practice lead to problems, I believe that, if they arise, the courts, together with the social work centres and the professionals from the children's house, will find a solution to address the shortcomings. At LMŠ, we are pleased that on the Justice Committee we have all agreed that this is a good project and a good marriage change, although the work of the previous governments is a fruit. I am pleased that in at least such important subjects as children's rights and security, we can come together without any political omen. We will, of course, support the law in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u290	Good evening again! Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Data from the 2019 report on the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office show that in 2019 2 000 700 children and minors were victims of crime. The proportion of children who were victims of sexual violence is thus 10%. According to some studies, 1 child in 5 is already a victim of sexual abuse in a family environment or by someone close to the child and is well - known. This information is frightening. This is an extremely traumatic event that has consequences for life on children. The proportion of undeclared acts remains large, because of course it is unacceptable. Sexual violence is still extremely stigmatized in Slovenian society, we often prefer to turn away rather than help. That is why the Social Democrats support all solutions that go towards greater protection of children, especially when they are victims of crime. One such solution is the European Barnhouse project, which has already been taken over by 15 European countries. This is a Council of Europe project, and Slovenia has started the project a few years ago. Former Justice Minister Andrej Katič actively joined the drafting of the legislation. Today's bill therefore provides a legal framework for the comprehensive treatment of children who are found in criminal proceedings either as victims or as witnesses, and in some cases as juvenile offenders. The name of the law already says that it is an integrated approach to aid, which will be divided into several stages: hearing the child, physical examination of the victim, crisis support and psychosocial assistance. The children's house will thus combine several child-care services in a coordinated and effective manner under one roof. Here, therefore, various experts will be involved in the process and will provide appropriate support and assistance to children, such as sociologists, educators, psychologists, prosecutors, police. Evidence of the crime will also be collected in the house, i.e. in one place, which will certainly increase the efficiency and speed of proceedings. The provisions on the uniform and comprehensive examination of the child during the hearing are also important. The number of hearings will be so minimal that it will at least ease the distress of children that they will not have to repeat the story again and again and again and again and again. The environment of the hearing will also be more accessible and friendly to children, not more rigid and strict than many courtrooms. The hearing will be conducted on the basis of a court order by an appropriately qualified expert, who may also communicate with the judge during the hearing by means of an electronic device. The hearing will be recorded and can also be used in criminal proceedings. The state of law will act as a public service for children, so the state will set up a public institution. At this point, we call on the competent authorities to select the most competent experts, including the director of the institution, to work with the children and to provide them with adequate education and training on a regular basis. The children's house will start to work gradually. At first, it will be directed to children who are victims of sexual abuse and later to others. The traditional justice system is adapted to adults, not the youngest. The justice system must adapt to the needs of children and allow victims of crime a safe and confidential environment in which they will be better confessed. The greatest benefit of a child must always be the only criterion in the procedures in which children are involved, so it is right that the procedures are those adapted to children and not the other way around – that children have to adapt to the procedure. Finally, the police's website indicates that the police deal with a few more than 200 crimes per year against sexual inviolability against children. So let us not turn away, but let us help and immediately report any minor suspicion of abuse. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u292	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone, especially the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use the words of one of the co-founders of the bill, which, in the debate on the working body, accompanied the bill with the words: "After many years of efforts, we have only finally received it." It is a statement by the Attorney General with long-standing practice in the prosecution of crimes of sexual abuse and other forms of violence against children, which she has been involved in the Barnahus project from the very beginning and, of course, supports the proposed law, which will allow children to be treated in an integrated manner. At the same time, we would like to express our appreciation and satisfaction that this law will be adopted on the proposal of a SMC-type portfolio minister, as the decision on the establishment of a children's house in Slovenia was adopted in 2017, also at the proposal of a SMC-type portfolio minister. At that time, as a country, we committed ourselves to providing children with good justice and providing them with comprehensive support in accordance with best practices from the Council of Europe. The purpose of this decision and this bill is to establish a house for children in Slovenia, which is primarily intended to carry out a child-friendly and effective judicial procedure when it comes to dealing with sexual abuse offences in children. In order to avoid further trauma to abused children, all necessary procedures will be carried out in a more friendly environment, such as the courtroom. The purpose of the Barnahus model is, therefore, to avoid repeated discussions with law enforcement authorities and judicial authorities at different locations, and to ensure cooperation between judicial, social and health services at a child-friendly location – thus also to ensure that children are prosecuted as much as possible for the benefit of the child. The Barnahus model is the leading European model for coordinated, child-friendly and multi-disciplinary treatment of children in judicial proceedings. In this regard, we must note that Slovenia already has a well-developed system of child protection and protection that ensures a high level of realization of children's rights. Our judicial authorities are aware that the most exposed and vulnerable participants in judicial proceedings are children and that due to their sensitivity and vulnerability it is essential that the possible negative effects of the process on the development of the child be minimised. In the SMC Group, we are aware that child sexual abuse is still a taboo topic in our society, although unfortunately they are common, especially by people who are known or trusted by children. That is why we owe abused children the highest level of protection that this model offers in our opinion and belief of many experts. The children’s home is a place where children feel safe and are treated by qualified experts who provide them with all the support and assistance they need. First, it will be directed to children who are victims of sexual abuse and later to other victims and witnesses of violence. The difference between the current practice and the Barnahus model is that children will no longer be driven by different institutions, from police to doctors and social work centres, prosecutors and courts, but will be brought into the children's home, where all procedures will be carried out for the purposes of criminal proceedings. The house will be arranged so that the child does not feel that it is an official institution, but will really experience it as a children’s home. Barnahus means a children’s home in Icelandic. In the SMC Group, we will unanimously support the bill's proposal, while at the same time expressing our thanks to both the previous Minister and the current Minister of Justice of the SMC, the Secretary of State and all relevant and heartfelt public servants, the public prosecutors, prosecutors, judges, judges, lawyers, lawyers, non-governmental organisations and domestic and foreign experts, and not least the State of Norway or its financial mechanism, where they are responsible for providing abused children with the highest level of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u294	Thank you very much. In Levica, we believe that the regulations gathered in this law, even those so far dispersed, will help to improve the quality of the work of all organs, but that alone will not be enough. At least some of the special skills or compulsory education prescribed by the law for a member of the new public institution should be carried out by all; all those who potentially may encounter a child in distress, particularly in cases of sexual assault and abuse, and situations where children are witnessing murders and killings that are particularly traumatic for the child. This bill deals specifically with a child-friendly justice, but we hope that this is the first step towards a user-friendly state apparatus that will work fully. Avoiding so-called secondary victimization is important for all victims regardless of their age, but of course especially for children. Slovenia has already been warned in the past that it has not done enough to help children victims of sexual violence. The warnings also referred to the implementation of the right of children to be heard. Children who are victims of crime in their later memories are particularly painful to point out that their statements were questionable or treated as unreliable witnesses only because they were minors, i.e. on the basis of their age. The right to be heard, however, entails a variety of conditions that could be called an environment of trust. In particular, it helps to move away from various stressors, especially by not being exposed to their teachers again, so that the spaces are arranged so as to allow for free movement, contact, contact with animals, toys, nature. Children can tell their story in an appropriate way when they feel safe, and this will be only if they are treated in an integrated, dignified manner. In the field of justice, which is also indicated by this proposal before us, it is certainly possible, without prejudice to the procedure itself, to abandon certain procedural elements that previously harm children's articulation, to testify in the process, rather than in the service of law and justice. Audiovisual statements made by children acting as victims or witnesses, i.e. their non-presence in a court of law, shall in no way violate the judicial procedure, provided that the rights of other parties are respected in the proceedings. The law therefore refers to a safe house for children, or Barnahus, who will have the status of a public institution and will be organised as a professional institution, which, like the execution of a court, will leave the institution and the hearing to him, while maintaining the substantive, procedural conduct of the hearing itself. The system introduced by the law – that in one place, with one act within an adapted institution, we get quality and valid statements for a judicial settlement – shows its best value in that, at the same time as the hearing begins, the enforcement process begins. Full treatment and support of the child in the process of processing his/her trauma caused by a criminal offence against him or on his/her part or only as witnesses of an event that begins as soon as possible is crucial for the children to develop further. That is why we are somewhat concerned about the long arms that, in the case of maximum lengths, can approach for one month, which is certainly not in favor of the purpose of empowering a child. Experts working within a safe house will themselves have to possess an extremely wide range of knowledge ranging from medicine, anthropology, pedagogy, psychology, and psychology to spirituality. We are concerned that people with such a wide range of skills, who at the same time have a keen sense of man, are not at risk. The law is good and well prepared and, of course, we support it in Levica. As always, its final value will be determined by implementation in practice. For the sake of all children who are in circumstances that should never have happened to them, we hope that this implementation will be as smooth as possible, but at the same time now we call for the return path to be as fast as possible. On the contrary, if certain needs for improvements or changes are identified, they shall also be prepared and submitted to the National Assembly for amendment without delay. Here, too, the National Assembly must play its role very quickly in order to prevent or at least limit the deepening of trauma and damage to young lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u296	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear fellows and fellows, a nice greeting once again! In Slovenia we have a well-developed system of child protection and protection, which is in line with international standards and ensures a high level of realization of the rights and well-being of all children, while international comparisons often place Slovenia at the top. Among other things, according to this year's index of Save the Children, Slovenia is first-placed in the ranking of countries where childhood is most protected. All of us in Slovenia are constantly working to further improve the situation and life of our children. The Family Code, which is governed by the fundamental principle of fundamental benefit for children, has been supplemented by the Law on the Ombudsman, which regulates advocacy and the right of every child to be heard, and the Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028, which stresses the realization of children's rights, has been adopted. Today we are considering the proposal for a law on the protection of children in criminal proceedings and their integrated treatment in the children's home. The bill is based on the knowledge that the protection and quality of life of children must be continuously improved and integrated treatment of child victims or witnesses of crimes against sexual inviolability by the Barnahus model. Following this model, some countries, notably Scandinavian, have been protected by children in criminal proceedings for many years. The Barnahus model and the bill follow the objective of ensuring that all abused children are promptly and effectively exposed to all abuse situations. He will provide the child with all the necessary support, care and assistance in the most vulnerable moments of his young life. And especially important, this will happen in a child’s safe and friendly environment. The basic objective of the bill is, in particular, the comprehensive and systematic regulation of the treatment of juvenile victims, witnesses and victims of crime. In accordance with international standards, the child is defined as a person under 18 years of age. This law provides for the protection of minors, in particular in the case of offences under the chapters of crimes against humanity, life and the body and sexual inviolability. The law defines the implementation of the integrated treatment of children as a public service provided by the State through the establishment of a public institution called a children's house. At the same time, this is the professional office for performing the work. Public service, integrated treatment consists mainly of hearing the child, physical examination of the child and crisis support and psychosocial assistance to the child. The procedural solutions proposed in this law aim at a uniform comprehensive hearing of the child either in the role of the injured party or in the role of a witness, under certain conditions, and also in the role of the perpetrator. Procedural solutions are therefore designed to enable the court, by order for hearing under this Act, to also decide on the application of all measures to protect the child’s mental integrity — avoiding contact with the accused, using the adapted premises, hearing with the assistance of an expert and minimizing the number of hearings. All proposed solutions contribute to this objective: a comprehensive approach, strengthening defence rights and a hybrid implementation of the hearing process. In particular, a one-time hearing on the child will help to prevent additional trauma, in a kind way that will be sufficient at the same time for the needs of the procedure. The whole concept of the law follows the objective of not creating additional stressful and traumatic situations for a child who is a victim of a crime in further criminal proceedings if he or she was not able to be adequately protected as a society from the cruel experience of a crime which could be recorded for life. I believe that by adopting the law we will increase the protection of children in criminal proceedings. I am convinced that the Ministry of Justice has drawn on a number of good experiences in countries that have been well regulated for many years. Members of the N.N. will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The start of the project of a house for children dates back to 2017. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision establishing a house for children in Slovenia. The content of the project was presented to the public in 2018 and the proposed law represents the implementation of the project in the Slovenian legal order. This will create a legal basis for regulating the protection of children in criminal proceedings, as it has been found that the project cannot be successfully implemented within the framework of existing legislation. The project represents a developed system of child protection and protection, modelled on by the Icelandic model Barnahus, which was designated by the Council of Europe as the most effective implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse or so-called Lanzerot Convention. The comprehensive treatment in the children's home is primarily intended for child victims or witnesses of crimes against sexual inviolability, and the bill provides for the gradual expansion of the target group, namely children who are victims or witnesses of crimes against life and body and crimes related to domestic violence. Under certain conditions, a comprehensive examination will also be provided to juvenile victims or witnesses of crime or juvenile offenders, of course if the capacity of the institution allows this. The proposal for a law provides that such treatment will be carried out as a public service provided and financed by the State through a public institution. The tasks of the institution will be carried out by qualified experts who will meet certain conditions and qualifications under the law, and the institution will also have to take good care and regularly take care of experts and their regular training. In one place there will be a pool of experts who will also provide medical and therapeutic support and protection for children. A comprehensive treatment of children will be provided in this house in several stages. The solutions proposed will ensure a uniform and comprehensive hearing of the child and a reduction in the number of hearings and everything else will help to eliminate secondary victimisation. To the greatest extent, the exercise and respect of children's rights will also be ensured through physical examination. In the period following the hearing, the Institute will also provide crisis support and psychosocial assistance provided by consultants on the basis of a prepared treatment plan. In the SAB party, the project of the house for children is very welcome, as it represents a major step towards reducing secondary victimisation of children who are victims or witnesses to crime. Any form of violence has a long - term effect on a child and can be gravely marked for the rest of his life. The offence for a child is an extremely traumatic experience, which in itself causes harm, and further investigation procedures and criminal proceedings may cause additional stress and additional damage. Revitalisation of traumatic experience in criminal proceedings usually affects the child in particular and should therefore be particularly careful and patient when handling them. It is the duty of each country to adapt criminal law in a way in which a child as a victim of a crime is protected to the greatest extent possible from secondary victimisation and from secondary stress. It also needs to ensure full respect for him as a person and his personal rights. In the SAB Group, we assess that the adoption of the law is urgently necessary and that we will unanimously support it by all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! The position of the Desus Group will begin with a statement. Every child has the right to have a child. Every child in the world should have a healthy childhood and every opportunity for successful personal development. It is small and young, yet unformed persons who represent the most vulnerable of our society, but at the same time constitute the foundation of human society. That is why it is even more sensitive and important for their protection and their rights. It is true that not only in us, but also elsewhere in the world, legislation is increasingly focused on the protection of children's rights. Nevertheless, at least according to the assessment of our Group of Members, progress is too slow. We must admit that we are still witnessing too many violations of their rights and abuses of children, even in our immediate vicinity. In our view, child abuse is not discussed enough. The fact is that child abuse and violations of their rights exist and occur every day. In the Desus Group, we stress that all such behaviours and actions are needed loudly, that is to say, without embellishment and excuses, to be clearly condemned, as children are not only causing long-lasting but also lasting extremely harmful consequences. The results of the research are alarming. Every fifth child is a victim of sexual violence, most in the family environment or by someone close to the child and is well - known. Maybe someone thinks, it doesn't happen to me and mine, it's just statistics. Absolutely not. They're kids. Just think about how many children you know, your children, the children of relatives, friends, acquaintances, neighbors. Maybe you've been teaching them, spending time with them. And how many have we listed? 10, 20. Now think of the so-called statistics. That's what they say. Every fifth child is abused. These aren't just numbers, they're facts. In the Desus Group, we advocate zero tolerance for acts that cause any harm to our children and for a more active approach to achieving this goal. We have taken an extremely fast approach to solving the crisis that occurred last year due to the epidemic. I'm talking about an epidemic with severe life-related consequences, and I'm talking about child sexual abuse, but there's very little talk. Long-term and complex legal procedures in the stages of detection, investigation and proof of violent crimes cause additional infringements and abuses that often cause additional harmful consequences to the victim. It's even worse in cases where the victim is a child. It is therefore incumbent on States to ensure adequate measures to protect victims in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings. The idea of a model of a house for children provided for by this law has matured for several years and it is right to finally only legalize it, since it provides for special protection of children involved in criminal proceedings, either as victims or as witnesses. This is a special professional institution where victims feel safe because their hearing will be carried out by qualified experts who will provide them with integrated support, health care and psychosocial assistance. The key is that children are given loving support and a child’s friendly and secure environment. This model represents an integrated system of multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional cooperation between different stakeholders who must strive for one and the only objective – immediate, appropriate and, above all, quality assistance to the child of the victim of the crime. In the Desus Group, we believe that the house for children will achieve its purpose, so we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on the protection of children in criminal proceedings and their integrated treatment in the children's house. We are aware that it is illusional to expect that such abuses will no longer occur, but we sincerely hope and want them to be as few as possible. It's every man's duty not to look away. The perpetrators need to be stopped immediately. Only when this begins will abuse be less and more carefree childish laughter and every child will be able to survive childhood in the most beautiful sense of the word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u301	Thank you very much. As a final point of view, Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u302	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, all present at the Hall, a lovely evening! Today's law is good and urgently needed. The law comprehensively and systematically regulates the treatment of juvenile victims and victims of crime. In particular, the law seeks to eliminate the late detection of minors and victims of crimes. The treatment of these persons will be clearer, more transparent and will ensure adequate child protection. The child will be heard and guaranteed the right to protection and personal security. There is no reason, however, for juvenile offenders to be dealt with in an integrated manner according to the provisions of the law in question in the same institution. Both categories of children should be separated because there are completely different reasons why they are treated in the institution. This material should be regulated in the existing Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. It's the next one that bothers us. An institution taken over from the Norwegian legal order is being reintroduced by centralisation and an additional law. Our legal system refers to the German, including the original content of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so it would make sense to bring news into our system from Germany or Austria. Today's Institute of Children's House is taken over from Norway's legal system. We have nothing to do with this arrangement. The problem arises with the application of law itself, since our legal system is the cocktail of all possible institutes from around the world. The heavy system works as a whole if we take only a certain part of each system. The President of the Government himself pointed out the flood of regulations that we have in our regime and, on the other hand, we are getting a new law. The third problem that bothers us most is that this law clearly violates the commitments of the Coalition Treaty, as centralisation is once again being strengthened. We already have problems with existing centralisation and are reintroducing a new institution right in Ljubljana. The introductory text of the law states that the premises of the Institute will be located in Ljubljana. There is no reason for this law to be right in Ljubljana, and such a decision is impossible to justify. If there is a problem of space, there are many unoccupied buildings in towns on the outskirts of Slovenia, which are standing as loners just because of centralisation, which has been happening since independence. This is a new institution and right now coalition parties could show how much they care about decentralisation of the country. We believe that this institution could be established elsewhere in Slovenia. We would suggest Ormož, Krško, Novo Gorica, Koper or some other place. In view of the users of this institution, we believe that a great deal of fighting would be appropriate, that the institution has its seat somewhere on the periphery. In this way, children will be able to move away from the impact of the urban environment and the rural environment is certainly more suitable for users of such an institution. When one city acquires such an institution, it also brings about the whole development. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u303	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the Republic's budget for the years 2021 and 2022. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for further explanation of the bill. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u304	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 seek to legislate certain solutions that will enable the country's budgets to be implemented in a timely and smooth manner for those two years. Article 1 seeks to enable the Ministry of Defence to conclude multi-annual investment contracts in the Slovenian Army. The current law on the implementation of the budget provides in Article 30, paragraph 3, that the direct user of the budget must not assume an obligation in the light of the budgets of the coming years without a precondition. This arrangement is particularly problematic in terms of the purchase of military equipment for which the delivery period is 18 months and more from the date of signature of the contract, and it concerns supplies which, due to the higher value of the project and the dynamics of production, are generally divided into a longer period of approximately two to three years from the first delivery. In addition, it is a specific equipment, so to speak, made to measure. Since manufacturers of military equipment do not wish to conclude contracts on a conditional basis, it is appropriate to lay down the legal basis for the purchase of those equipment provided for in the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programme, which exceptionally allows the conclusion of contracts without delay. The proposed Article 2 provides for the possibility of additional employment in cases where employees' salaries are financed or from research projects and programmes and funds for projects and programmes aimed at internationalisation and quality in education and science, or where wage funds are provided from the sale of goods and services on the market. In the first case, it means that the implementation of research projects and programmes could be questioned if the law strictly prohibits any new employment. In the second case, it is an exception to the possibility of employment if these jobs are financed from the so-called market activity, since in both of the cases described, the cost of work is not borne by budgetary resources. It is further proposed to delete from the law the arrangements that required the mandatory preparation of a six-year report for indirect users of the budget. The reason for the proposed deletion is that the founder, on the basis of a half-year report prepared by 31 August of the current year, is virtually no longer able to remedy possible negative operations this year. As a result, such a report does not serve its purpose. However, simply deleting the obligation to prepare a six-year report does not prevent the founder from monitoring the financial operations of indirect users of the budget throughout the year. And one last thing. This amendment provides for the possibility for the Government to redistribute planned spending rights from EU earmarked funds where it can reasonably be expected that mitigation-related intervention measures can be financed or co-financed by European funds as well. Taking into account the fact that certain intervention measures for which national funds are already planned in the budget can be financed by EU funds, it makes sense that at least some of the obligations arising from intervention laws will be financed by EU funds. In addition: additional transitional provisions extend certain deadlines in 2021 for one month, such as the submission of annual reports and tax accounts and some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u305	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 54th urgent meeting on 17 March this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. In an additional explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance explained the key reasons or key solutions to the bill, which will allow the smooth and ongoing implementation of state budgets for this year and next year. The Ministry of Defence is allowed to conclude multi-annual contracts and contracts without delay for investments in the Slovenian Army. The bill allows for the possibility of additional employment of public servants in certain cases where the salaries of employees are not additionally charged to the budget. The regime imposing on indirect budget consumers the obligation to prepare six-year reports and criminal liability in the event of non-preparation of the recovery plan is deleted. The proposal also contains a solution that the Government may redistribute the use of European Union funds for the financing of intervention laws when this option is reasonably expected. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summarized the opinion of the Service in writing and commented on Article 1 of the bill in terms of compliance with the Constitution. It also highlighted the legal certainty of the solutions proposed. In the debate, some Members and Members criticised the bill and called it unconstitutional and undemocratic. The draft law has the same legal effects as the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army between 2021 and 2026, and the enforcement of this law is currently retained by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Another time. The members of the Committee agreed that the Slovenian Armed Forces needed modernisation and additional investments, but these must be justified and the public financial capacity of the State must be taken into account. They stressed that they agree with investments that will directly serve Slovenian citizens but oppose expenditure that will primarily benefit the military industry and international missions. Some members of the committee stressed in the debate that the Slovenian Army is one of the pillars of State security and sovereignty and that its investments are vital to the country. At the same time, it has been pointed out that the Constitution requires the State to be able to provide security training. It was pointed out that the Slovenian Armed Forces must respect the medium- and long-term guidelines previously adopted in the National Assembly, and the legal basis for this is given to it by the law. The debate also rejected the argument that the debate is, in fact, a dilemma between investment in the military and investment in health or social care, as it will be necessary to find funds for investment in all the areas mentioned above. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance and the State Secretary from the Ministry of Defence answered the questions raised by Members and Members in the debate. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an amendment to the new Articles 5a to 5d. Following the discussion on the amendments tabled, the Committee decided, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to amend the Parliamentary Group of the Left to Article 1, and did not accept it, the amendments of the LMš Group to Articles 1, 3 and 4 which it had not adopted and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Andreja Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u308	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! The new ZIPRS, which we are considering, contains two good solutions, two bad ones and one that involve shameless disregard of the will of the Constitutional Court. The first good solution is to extend the deadline for the submission of tax accounts and annual reports. We have supported this solution, which is indeed a last-minute solution, in the LMŠ, because we have been drawing attention to this problem for a long time and to this end we have also called a meeting of the Committee on Finance. It's a shame that you met so late and thus caused an additional amount of stress to the already desperate accountants. Another solution is that the Commission's anti-corruption plan can be increased by five additional jobs over the next two years. This is an extremely important body, which has to check quite a few things that have happened in the last year. In the LMŠ, we proposed several amendments to the Finance Committee, the most important of which was the deletion of Article 1. This article allows the acquisition of the Slovenian Armed Forces of 780 million to begin before the Constitutional Court decides to do so. Not that we do not support the development of the Slovenian defence system in LMŠ. This is what we have followed in the past government when, in the rebalancing of the 2019 budget and also in all subsequent budgets for the development of the defence system, we have foreseen more resources in relation to past years and thus stopped the multi-annual trend in the reduction of funds for the Slovenian Army, but measures in the area of strengthening military structures and the defence system have been set up in different, more stable circumstances. However, the time we are in is specific, we are in an extremely uncertain situation, we do not know, for example, what will happen to thousands of employees in companies once the measure of subsidising waiting for work has expired. At this time, it is at least illogical to purchase 400 million armoured personnel, but it raises questions and raises various theories as to why you are working so hard for such a public spending. But the problem of Article 1 is even deeper. Its adoption would constitute a legal basis for accepting the obligation to invest in the Slovenian Army in the burden of the budgets of the coming years before the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court in breach of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. So we have yet another attempt by the ruling coalition to ignore the system of brakes and balance. This more than two centuries old doctrine presupposes the separation and dispersion of political power to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and confers on each of these branches about the same responsibility and power to prevent the domination of only one person, group or branch of power. I repeat, the domination of one man or branch of power. It is very worrying to speak about the rule of law, but at the same time to play the Constitutional Court. In the LMŠ we are convinced that no one should allow this in mature democracies, and it should be Members and Members of the National Assembly who act as advocates of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will be next in line to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u310	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, one fine evening! In the second year marked by the epidemic, the Government proposed amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budget. Instead of a transparent budget rebalancing to respond to the changed needs and redistribute funds that were not able to be used effectively in the so-called fight against the epidemic, she decided to amend the law quickly. The law on the implementation of the budget is a law of a specific kind. It can only be proposed by the Government, not by Members, and always dealt with by an emergency procedure. Because of his special situation, it is not possible to make a referendum decision on him either. This means that its content must also remain within the framework necessary for budgetary implementation. Therefore, there must not be any content in this law that does not belong to it. And the government did exactly that with its proposal. In addition to the content relevant for the implementation of the budget, such as the granting of employment to that part of the public sector, which also has market and other revenues, an article that undermines the principle of the division of power interferes with the constitutional review of the already adopted Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, while extending the already exceptional powers that the Government is expected to obtain for the purchase of military weapons and equipment. The legislative and legal service has opposed this proposal on more than six sides. Nevertheless, the Committee on Finance has not acted. The disputed article has neither crossed nor changed it, so we are now faced with a law that clearly contains non-constitutional elements and goes beyond its jurisdiction and the disputed article cannot be amended. We have therefore drafted an amendment to the new Article 5th, by which the validity of the contested government power to purchase military equipment would be bound to the condition that the Constitutional Court declares the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army compatible with the Constitution. If this happens, the amendment also stipulates that the powers given by ZIPRS cannot be understood more broadly than those conferred by the Government on the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. The government has already shown that it does not care about constitutional order, and apparently the same is true of its attitude toward the people in whom it is to be employed. The additional evidence for this is first the stubborn insistence of the Government that legal persons will not be extended the deadlines for the submission of business reports and tax returns, and then the coalition decided at the last minute to return these necessary provisions to this law, where they also do not belong, but will provide the overloaded economy, if the law is adopted, with at least one month's delay in the submission of business reports. Because we believe that this is too low given the burden of accounting services, and given the complexity of government aid measures, we propose that these deadlines be extended by three months, on 30 June this year. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will decide on our support for this law in the light of the support we will receive from our proposal for an amendment to safeguard the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u312	Your Honor! With today's amendment to the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we are adopting solutions that allow for the release of additional employment of public servants in certain cases where the salaries of employees will not additionally burden the budget, we are extending the deadline for the submission of financial reports on business operations and providing funds for the urgent modernisation of military capabilities that will enable the longer term development of the Slovenian Army. We support all the solutions proposed in the Modern Centre Party Group. We are pleased to release employment for researchers in cases where employees' salaries are financed from research projects and international programmes. We also support an additional solution, which also enables the Commission to prevent corruption, because it is one of the important institutions that contribute to the strengthening of integrity and transparency and the rule of law in general, which is also important in the light of the recently adopted novels of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which the KPC has given new legal tasks, and therefore makes sense to strengthen its organisational and human resources structure. It is also very welcome to postpone the deadline of one month for the submission of annual reports by economic operators, as we would like to avoid any inaccuracies or even mass delays and associated sanctions in the transmission of data. We are aware of the urgency for businesses of the economic environment in which they operate. However, through a system of public disclosure of data in their business, companies allow investors, suppliers and other market stakeholders to take their business decisions on the basis of credible information, and such data must therefore be accurate and reliable. We therefore see the work of specialized accounting services as a bridge between companies and other stakeholders, but we are aware that this is far from their only function and that in the current circumstances, the accounting services carry out additional work, are exposed to an increased scale, as they help their customers to regulate the documentation related to the enforcement of all types of assistance provided by the State under anti-korona laws. This novel also provides financial resources for military capabilities, and this is the most controversial for the opposition. However, in the mandates of previous governments, our country has already committed itself to implementing medium- and long-term plans for the establishment of military capabilities, which are consistent with NATO's alliance on a scale and time scale. Slovenia has assumed such obligations at the time of entry into this alliance. Much of the existing military infrastructure is spent. Large financial resources are needed for maintenance and the operational availability of equipment is reduced. All of this has a negative impact on the readiness of the Slovenian Army, which has been deemed inappropriate for many years for war activities. With this attitude, our country does not follow the obligations arising from the collective defence system, and we treat existing capacities uneconomically, transferring the security burden to other members of NATO's alliance. In our opinion, therefore, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide military capacity in accordance with the planned dynamics, so we would also like the Constitutional Court to adopt its final decision on this issue, in particular on the provisionally detained Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026, as soon as possible. On the basis of all the above, the proposal of this amendment will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The task of each political authority is to set social priorities, to choose what is most important and to put the greatest emphasis on the activities it considers most important. Coronacrisis, the Coronavirus has revealed the weaknesses of this society. He revealed weaknesses in our health care, revealed weaknesses in our long-term care, revealed weaknesses in housing policy for young people. You can ask yourself how many young people, about 25 or 30 years old, had to move back to their parents because they lost their jobs and income during this crisis because they worked in the service sector. These were the reasons why in Levi, when we passed the 780-million-million-dollar arms law, we decided to go to a referendum, that this issue should be resolved by telling people whether such an investment and such a choice of social priorities were agreed upon or not. 780 million euros is not an academic question, an abstract question. This is the same money or very similar money as last year's government has dedicated to all transport and transport infrastructure if you look at the page of the budget.gov.si. This is the amount that is close to what the government has been earmarking for investments over the past years. And 780 million euros will not be only 780 million euros. The first purchase from this package, the transport aircraft, has in three months increased from €50 million to €72 million. So we're probably talking about a billion. That is why we in Levica have decided that such an investment should be asked about such a choice of priority for the people at the referendum. During the five days at the end of last November, we collected almost 30,000 signatures and the matter is currently before the Constitutional Court, which also ruled that the law should not be implemented, because when contracts were concluded there would be very difficult remedial consequences. That's how we got to the marriage that's ahead of us today. The main solution to this law is the search for the bypass of the Constitutional Court, in order to create a new basis for the government to conclude contracts that will also bring billions of obligations to the state over the next six years. We're in a very dangerous precedent here. First time. The Constitutional Court kept the law that tried to regulate it due to difficult remedial consequences — the government passed it. Another time. Our constitutional regulation stipulates: that Slovenia is a democratic country – Article 1 of the Constitution; that Slovenia is a legal state – Article 2 of the Constitution; that Slovenia has the authority of the people – Article 3 of the Constitution; that citizens have the right to participate in the management of public affairs – Article 44 of the Constitution; that citizens have the right to a referendum – Article 90 of the Constitution. I refer to these five articles, Articles 1, 2, 3, 44 and 90, because the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly itself said that the Government was by this law, with this grave violation of the constitutional order and the Constitutional Court's decisions in conflict with these five fundamental articles of our democratic regime. That's why we announced in Levica that we would go back to the referendum. And the government tried to play again, not us, but part of the people. In this Act, a provision was introduced against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Coalition on the Committee on Finance in order to regulate the closure of the final reports for companies and accounting services from 31 March to 30 April. This was the solution that the government had explicitly opposed until then, the day that she heard that this marriage would probably be a referendum, and she changed her mind and put it in. And where are we now? Accountancy services and businesses have become hostages to potential billions of weapons purchases. That is why we have tabled amendments in Levica to remove accounting services and the matter that governs them from this law. We also have a prepared law, and I have it right there on the table to settle it in a special law that is – and this is agreed – can be adopted on Tuesday next week and this grave violation of the constitutional order is rejected today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u315	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Horvat. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u316	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, in the 30th year of this country, we are witnessing a violent blockade on the functioning of this same country. The inability of the constitutionally required defence capacity of the State and the related security of citizens and citizens as fundamental constitutional rights is an exclusive example of the blocking of the performance of the key functions of the State. In New Slovenia we ask and ask citizens and citizens who have the right to block the basic functions of the country. Who has the power to block this country? If this goes on, we'll lose the country. Will we allow the idea of those who have never been an intimate option by the independent state of Slovenia to come true? Article 34 of the Constitution, that is the right to personal dignity and security, stipulates that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. It thus establishes the constitutionally commanded duty of the State to effectively ensure, at any time and on the medium and long term, the security of each individual and sovereign — people as a whole. Such an effective security situation shall not be ensured when the military of the State is financially maintained for a long time. That the Slovenian Army is in such a chronically malnourished state, they confirm the professional evaluations at both national and international level. With regard to national level, the fact that so far the growth of investment funds for the purposes of the Slovenian Armed Forces does not provide the necessary developmental leap and modernisation to enable the capacity identified in the long-term development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by the National Assembly. However, the absence of the necessary resources is reflected in the state of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has been assessed with an under-estimation for crisis or war since 2013. The government and the coalition refer to the position of the profession, for example, the opinion of Prof. Dr. Ljubice Jelusič. The urgency of investing in the Slovenian Army is not that we suddenly need investments in defence, but in allowing investment in the Slovenian Army, which has been open for years. We also explain the necessity of such conduct or the adoption of this amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia with an insufficient assessment of the Slovenian Army for action in crisis and war. With regard to highly technical and political issues such as the issue of financing the defence capacity of the State, the Government and Parliament have a secure field of their own assessment of the necessity of action, since this question is precisely a matter of their nuclear competence and not of the powers of constitutional judges, who are neither advocates nor have specialized knowledge nor data on such a detailed professional and political issue. Thus, even after this extremely nice path of assessment, we would be able to admit that, in the case of the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, the case of the law referred to in Article 90(2) of the Constitution, the urgency of the measure as seen by the Government and Parliament, and thus the law which cannot be contested by a referendum at all. At least that is the case in the context of free democratic societies. Finally, it is based on Dr Klemna Jaklič's negative separate opinion on the inadmissibility of the referendum on the issue of the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In New Slovenia, we have listened to the needs of businesses and accounting services, and we are pleased that the Committee on Finance, with a large majority, has adopted a supplement allowing the submission of annual reports to Apes for the 2020 business year by the end of this April. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u318	Your Honor! The government argues that the key solutions to the bill are necessary, as without them it will not be possible to ensure the smooth and ongoing implementation of state budgets for the years 2021, 2022. Is this really the case, or is the amendment intended to enforce the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, which the Constitutional Court temporarily turned on a red light? The law that we are considering today is the perimeter of the Constitutional Court's decision. In fact, the Government transferred the content of the law, which was suspended by the court, to ZIPRS. This re-examined her attitude towards the rule of law and democracy, of course. The decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be binding on all branches of authority, both for the executive and for the legislative powers, but obviously not for that Government, which, past the Constitutional Court, proposes a law in which it violates the principle of the division of power and denies the right of the people to referenda. In the SAB Group, we have repeatedly stressed that the military needs adequate equipment and that certain investments in the military are necessary. Especially an investment in a special fire-fighting aircraft, Canadar, which our army needs for the benefit of the whole country. However, we cannot agree that all investments of EUR 780 million are necessary. We believe that the time will come when the defences will provide all the necessary investments, but certainly today, in the financial, economic and health crisis and in the face of a record public deficit, there is no time for commitment to military investments to an almost billion-dollar extent. But today we are not really talking about whether investment in the Slovenian Army is necessary or not. We are talking about the government's attitude towards the postulates of the rule of law and democracy. We are talking about an unconstitutional law that the Government has submitted to the legislative body for adoption. At the edge of providing investment, military change allows for additional employment in public administration, but for precisely defined projects and programmes financed by the European Union. The amendment of the Government law allows the redistribution of funds to finance the epidemic by financing intervention laws from EU funds. The law repeals the obligation to prepare a half-year report and a recovery plan for indirect budget users, municipalities, Zpiz and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The half-year report is intended for timely monitoring of expenditure and revenue. If they deviate from the envisaged, management shall be required to adopt the recovery plan immediately and to settle the financial flows by the end of the year. We do not favour the proposed solution in the SAB. We believe that, in particular, in the municipalities and the two most important cash registers for the country and people, we need to closely monitor and respond in a timely manner to the inadequate implementation of the financial plan. From the beginning of the year, accounting services have been calling for an extension of the deadline for the submission of annual reports and tax accounts. The coalition parliamentary groups proposed an extension of the deadlines for one month on the parent working body. But the question is whether just an additional month is enough, given that the deadlines in the first wave were extended by two months, and at that time the situation was not nearly as chaotic as it is today. And why is the situation chaotic? Due to a number of new rules that change too often and are so unclear that users cannot apply the law in the right way without clarification. And as if this was not enough, the government put them under additional pressure, as an act laying down the rules for the return of basic income and compensation was adopted just before the tax returns were made. Although we support the extension of the deadline for the submission of annual reports and consider certain investments in the Slovenian Army necessary, we will not support the law. In the SAB Group, we cannot support solutions that so eloquently deny the Constitution, the rule of law and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition for its implementation, according to the legal nature of the State budget. The most important change concerns the financing of investment contracts in the Slovenian Army, provided for by the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programmes for its implementation. Obligations can be assumed without delay. The Slovenian army is a national armed force that is trained and equipped to carry out an armed struggle. It is the most important component of the national security system. Its size, weapons and composition depend on state policy and military doctrine. The defence system has become the subject of daily politics through every reasonable measure, inevitably ignoring the needs of the profession, as well as the imperative of modernisation. There is never any money to modernise, but this destroys the operational capacity of the units, which is of interest to the few. In doing so, it is of secondary importance how this is shown to citizens. The defence of the country requires much more than the capacity of demagogists and populists. The relationship between the defence system and its own public is thus transformed into a humiliating personal political marketing. The old mistakes of our strategic planning are repeated. We answer the real developmental issues of the country's defence power by denying them or ignoring them. In doing so, it is clear that investment will be achieved by more governments, and a number of problems that will arise in or out of the way will be solved for several years in a row. Therefore, strategies must be open and relevant; they must cover long-term and most important projects of stability and security of the country; the last decade of developments in the extremely complex system of state legitimacy has seen our professional incompetence, the legalisation of the non-decision system, the way in which nothing changes. In fact, this situation leads to a reversal of values in a real military profession, without which no army can imagine, marginal things become a strategy and the profession goes to work. The strategic leadership of a 30-year-old country is not infantile in the domestic sandstone. The art of strategy was a thousand-year military domain. In doing so, the right to ask questions is more important than answers; more is the way to achieve them than a multitude of goals. The desired and targeted quality determines a lot of things, not just economic givenness, but also the political system, and above all the ethics of social responsibility. We do not have the strategic orientation of the country's defence potency professionally and politically. The mistakes are repeated, the leadership of the army is therefore constantly improvisation. We may not see this on the inside and on the short run, but problems accumulate on the outside and in the long run. The proposed amendment to the law on the implementation of budgets amounts to an end to such an unsustainable situation. It also redefines the possibility of additional employment in cases where salaries are financed from research projects and programmes and funds for projects and programmes aimed at internationalisation and quality in education and science. This is all on the assumption that the remuneration of employees is not provided from the country's budget. The possibility for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to redistribute the European Union's funds to the COVID-19 sub-programme, but only if it is reasonably expected that the intervention measure will actually be financed by means of funds, and the proposal to extend the deadline for the submission of annual reports is assessed as an intervention adapted to the current economic situation. Members of the Desus Group will support amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u322	Good evening again, all together, especially to the representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we support the exemption from the restriction on taking responsibility in concluding contracts, since it is only right to follow the long-term programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Of course, our military program is far from perfect, as we are over-adapting to Nate's demands for weapons that are not suitable for the defense of our country. We often buy weapons and equipment that are unfit to defend the scattered geographical space of our country. Instead of buying weapons for a specific way of warfare that is feared by both the West and the East sides, we follow the interests of NATO and certain global corporations. There is still a lot to change about the programme, and it is certainly necessary to have full control over the programme that we currently have in the military. This control will also be improved by supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. The law will thus provide for an exception to restrictions on taking up obligations so that meaningful multi-annual investment contracts in the Slovenian Army can be concluded. The Treaties, which are therefore provided for by the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programmes for its implementation. In the Slovenian National Party, we want the Ministry of Defence under this Act to conclude the treaties necessary for the normal and quality defence of our country. Since military equipment is very specific in nature, it should also be purchased with a view to modernising our armed forces. All aspects of the military must be monitored. Without good control of defence mechanisms, the country cannot function. Finance is also part of military strategies today and must therefore follow defence programmes and guidelines. To the opponents of this law, of course, it is not the desire to defend our people and our homeland, but, as usual, to destroy our country and our Slovenian defence forces. Procurement is not only about weapons, but also about such things as a transport helicopter, which can be used for the benefit of citizens for civil purposes. The financing of the country's defence competence must be ongoing, under control and in line with our country's broader defence strategy. Security is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, but it is guaranteed by the state's defence mechanism. Thank you so much for your attention and good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u323	Thank you very much. The last position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u324	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government Representative, colleague, colleague! Before us are amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the procedures, preparation and implementation of the budget of the State, which means that it regulates specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of each year. It is also appropriate to include in the annual law solutions which are deemed to be relevant for the development of specific budgetary management. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will allow the country's budgets for 2021 and 2022 to be implemented in an ongoing and smooth manner. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 provide for an exemption from the limitation on the taking-up of commitments by completing those multiannual investment contracts in the Slovenian Army provided for in the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Medium-term Defence Programme for its implementation. This means that these obligations can be assumed without delay. For those investments, the required military systems also provide for a delivery period of 18 months and more from the date of signature of the contract. In addition, the anticipated supplies due to the higher value of the project and the dynamics of production are generally divided over a longer period of time, since the total investment cannot be made financially in one financial year. It is proposed to end the preparation of a half-year report for indirect users of the budget of the State and municipalities and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, since the half-year report cannot be dealt with by the competent authorities before the third quarter of the current work. The request for the preparation of the recovery plan and the adoption of measures to compensate the financial plan of the indirect user by the end of the current year is not feasible in practice. The possibility is also envisaged for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to redistribute the European Union’s earmarked resources on the COVID-19 sub-programme, but only if the intervention measure is reasonably expected to be financed or co-financed by the European Union’s dedicated resources. On a proposal from the Coalition, the Committee on Finance’s parent labour body was also included in the previous provisions in order to extend the deadline for the submission of annual reports and tax returns to the debtors by 30 April 2021. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u325	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and following a debate on the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting forward the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. I see it's an interest in the debate, so I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have two discussers. The first is Mr Luka Mesec, then Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Good-bye! First of all, I would like to add a little bit to my position, which I presented in the position of the Group of Members. With this amendment, which we are currently considering in Article 2, we are attempting to delete this Article, which essentially deals with the same matter as the Slovenian Army Investment Act, which is the law currently reserved in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has ruled that the Government should not sign a arms purchase contract until the decision is reached, because it would have had difficult consequences for the State because of the amounts and without delay, and so on. Of course, we can only agree on this because these treaties will go beyond the adopted budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, these treaties will go beyond the mandate of this government, saying that they will go far in 2022, and these contracts will be able to amount to a total of a billion euros, as I have shown earlier. While the government is talking about 780 million, the first purchase, a transport aircraft to which EUR 50 million is to be paid, has, within a few months, increased to EUR 72 million. Therefore, with all legitimacy, I can say that the final amount, like the example of the aircraft, could be half as expensive as the Government says. I am also concerned about this because, unlike the law in the Constitutional Court, there is no law on investments in the Slovenian Army, the law before us has no protectors. That law provides that the purchases must not exceed 780 million — this is not the case in this law. That law determines how many purchases can the government after years — these guards are not in this law. And that law stipulates that every year the government must report exactly what it is doing in this direction, how much money it has spent, what contracts it has signed, and so on — and that is not the case in this law. What we have in front of us in this marriage is a perfect blank note. A complete blank currency with which the Government can have practically unlimited resources that are not yet defined in any adopted budget. It is important to ask whether we really trust this government to deal economically with this money so that the costs will not fly to the sky, as they have so far done in all arms matters, so that it will not conclude contracts that will give us a headache or two. After all, this is not a government which will also pay the costs by the end of the term of office. These costs will also be settled by the next and perhaps another government behind it. We do not know how many governments there will be in the next six years, but all will bear the consequences of the contracts now to be concluded, and all will have to be signed under the choice of social priorities to be chosen by this government. As I said earlier, a billion euros for this country is unfortunately not a negligible amount. A billion euro is practically close to the amount the country has spent on investment in recent years, a billion euro is the amount that the Government has spent on health care in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, or a tenfold of the amount that the Government has committed in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan to long-term care, or a one-tenth of the amount that the Government has allocated to build housing in this year's budget. These are comparisons of what kind of money is involved in the military and what kind of money is involved in everything else. I don't know why you're so afraid of the referendum. The referendum doesn't mean that your plan will be automatically rejected. Switzerland decided to buy 6 and a half billion military fighters at the referendum one month before we filed or collected signatures for the request for a subsequent 780 million legislative referendum. That was decided at the referendum. Proponents of this huge military supply in Switzerland apparently had enough weight and good arguments to convince the people that they were going into this procurement. So I don't know why we're here hearing about daily politics and acting and demagogism and political marketing and I don't know what. We are in a democratic country where people have the right to a referendum and where they have every right to decide on such things as a billion-dollar investment at a referendum. I don't know why you're afraid of that. If you firmly believe that the defence profession is on your side, as we have listened to it, then there is no problem, you will convince people with this defensive profession that we must get it. But here we see that mistrust is not just about people, not even about institutions like the Constitutional Court. In one of the positions of government parties, we have heard that the Constitutional Court cannot judge this because they are not defenders. We're here now. The Constitutional Court can't judge because they're not defenders — but don't joke! It's the other way around. Politicians who do not understand what the function of the Constitutional Court is should be kept silent about this. The Constitutional Court has not ruled and does not judge whether Slovenia uses these weapons or not, the Constitutional Court considers whether the Government was right to decide that there should be no referendum on this issue. This is a matter that is judged by the Constitutional Court, and I find it difficult to bear these criticisms that we are on our side populism and so on. No, no, it's you. You are, because you do not like what the Constitutional Court has concluded on a matter with which you have trampled a lot of constitutional principles, as you will now be with the ZIPRS, it has kept some law that you love, you will go into devalue, devalue the whole meaning and meaning of the institution, such as the Constitutional Court, which we have to protect the constitutional order that we have in order to set the framework and limits of every time. These are the basics, this is an abc policy. In democratic order, no power is all-powerful, no authority can just take the right to do what it wants, so we have a constitution and a legal order. And everyone has to move within what is permitted by the Constitution, which is a fundamental, fundamental, fundamental act of one country. And you're here another time because you want to force in every way, and this unconstitutional, arms purchase, you're willing to walk five fundamental constitutional principles. Five fundamental constitutional principles: that Slovenia is a democratic republic – Article 1 of the Constitution; that Slovenia is a legal state – Article 2 of the Constitution; that Slovenia has power of the people – Article 3 of the Constitution; that Slovenia has the right to participate in public affairs – Article 44 of the Constitution; that it has the right to a referendum – Article 90 of the Constitution. You're willing to walk all this out here to force a blank purchasing menu or to sign billion-dollar arms contracts. Here we are. So that you do not say that we are just against weapons or against the Slovenian Army, I will touch some of the content of this purchase. In Levica, since these acquisitions have been discussed, we stress that these acquisitions must be such that they do not serve or will not be used only for NATO missions abroad, but that they will primarily be useful for what is the constitutional function of the Slovenian Army, and this is the defence of Slovenia and its territory. What we get in this package that you're trying to get through, and that's probably why you're afraid of the referendum, but that's what's next. The shells you buy for EUR 400 million are not intended for the defence of the Slovenian state or its territory. These armoured personnel are intended, as stated in the Resolution of the Slovenian Armed Forces and in the strategies, for the equipment of the two central NATO battalion groups for expeditions in the third world. Not for defending Slovenia, but for expeditions in the third world. The helicopters you're buying aren't ambiguous. You've admitted this a number of times. These helicopters are designed for the same, special forces and expeditions. The transport aircraft you are buying is not intended for the transport of vaccines. Currently, the Slovenian Army has one transport aircraft, called Turbolet 410, and in the last five years this aircraft has two-thirds of its flights supplied NATO missions, NATO operations and so on. A new transport aircraft is purchased only because it has a larger range of up to 3,000 500 kilometres to deliver things not only to Bosnia and Kosovo, which it is about now doing, but that it can also fly to Afghanistan or Mali. Not for the transport of vaccines, as we have heard in one of the attempts to manipulate by the Minister of Defence. If we talk about some reasonable number that would be appropriate to this time and circumstances that we have – we have a crisis due to the coronavirus, we have people who are losing jobs, we have companies that are closing their doors or moving out of Slovenia, you know what is going on in Ormož and in Koroška, we have a potential economic crisis ahead of us. And you, in all of these facts, that are in the eyes of people who are creating a state of mistrust and mistrust in this country, say that the most important thing is that this government will lay the legal ground for signing weapons transactions for hundreds of millions of euros. I used to ask rhetorically why you don't hope for a referendum, but it's not hard to understand why you don't hope for a referendum – because you know you'll lose it in a relationship like this. But we're in a democratic state. Even if you overrun these constitutional articles by this law, we are still in a democratic state. So this law will also go to the Constitutional Court, and this law too will be very difficult to defend before the Constitutional Court, in fact even harder than the previous one. That's why I'm touching our second amendment. Our second amendment discusses the question that, subsequently, when you were concerned that a referendum or a request for a referendum would fall on this law, and that this law will also be retained by the Constitutional Court, you have included in this law a solution for accounting services that have been asked by the Government for months to extend deadlines for the submission of final reports by the end of May this year because of the emergency. The government has opposed this for a very long time, but you've agreed to do so just to put them here, in this marriage as a hostage. Of course, we do not want them to be any hostage or collateral damage to any dispute that absolutely does not concern them. The fact that they have been placed in this law is against the rules of procedure, because the content of this law is not new and even less ZIPRS is not a deadline for the submission of final accounts of accounting services. That's not the content of this law. On virtually no terms of service of the National Assembly would allow this to go far enough to be voted on. So I imagine that there must have been a lot of pressure this time, that we have even come to a vote on this. But this was placed in front of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it was placed only to blackmail those parties who oppose this law, such as saying that if you vote against this law, you do not vote against the purchase of weapons, but you vote against companies and accounting services, if you collect signatures for the referendum, it will not sign against the purchase of weapons, but will sign against the accounting services and businesses, and if you make a request for a constitutional assessment, it will not be a constitutional assessment of the purchase of weapons, but on accounting services. That's why it's in here so that whoever wants good accounting services and businesses will take a different route. We've got, we've got, we've got, we've got, [[shows the object]] I have a marriage, it's a novel of the antikoronic package of seven that was filed today. The President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, has agreed to deal with the next Monday and Tuesday, at the latest on Tuesday, when it will be voted on, and will enter into force only a day later than this ZIPRS will come into force. This way we can save the accounting services. But I ask you not to involve them in any hostage or collateral damage to the arms and social priority conflict because they do not deserve it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Lampret, Secretary of State, wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u328	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I'll try to be brief. In view of the claims that have been made, I have heard even the claim of a light transport aircraft twice, and I must say that we have received two questions from the ministry. One was about purchases of 4x4 armors, the other was about a tactical transport aircraft and we will also answer both questions in accordance with the business deadline. I wouldn't speculate about prices. It is true that we made a reservation in the NRP of 72 million, but this is a reservation and this does not say anything about the project itself. We didn't finish the project ourselves because we can't because the investment law was held back. This has also been said out loud several times. So here's any speculation about the price isn't in place. It is also true that we launched an invitation to tender for this aircraft in 2007. It's 2007. And from that period, there were some prices that were also published publicly. But it was not just a tactical transport aircraft, four cases were transferred to the NRP, four priorities the Ministry of Defence has: the communication and information system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the modernisation of military infrastructure, tactical transport aircraft, the upgrade of Bell 412 helicopters. These are the priorities. Three of them can be implemented on the basis of regular budgets that are adopted, one of them, a tactical transport aircraft, we cannot. Does that mean she's not a security guard? That's not true. They're security guards. I'm talking about zipRS two plus two. We have a budget for two years, 100 million for this year, 130 million for next year and in the third year, the fourth year is a percentage of investments. [[Incomprehensible]] So, security guards exist. President, allow me to speak for a moment, two words on the use, of the substantive work we have heard. With regard to the medium-term battalion fighting groups planned by this country, the Slovenian Army has been planning for 15 years. The middle battalion fighting groups are not intended for expedition operations. This is neither a strategy nor a tactical use of these capabilities. They are intended to defend, however, the national defence of the Republic of Slovenia in the collective defence of Europe. What are we talking about? If we speak geographically and we are speaking in mind, this means that if Europe is threatened and borders in Europe are changing after 2014, the Republic of Slovenia will defend common security at the borders of Europe. If these were expedition operations, then we would have strategic capacity to transport them. That's not true. And then I'll end up using an easy-to-use transport plane. It is true that it is purchased by the Slovenian Armed Forces, Ministry of Defence for the purposes of the Slovenian Army. All aircraft used by the Slovenian Armed Forces are dual-purpose. We will also set certain minimum standards that will be military standards for this aircraft. However, this aircraft will also provide Slovenian contingents. There is no NATO in Mali, but there is a Slovenian Army and an operation of the European Union. About helicopters, special helicopters. We're not talking about special helicopters. We are talking about medium transport helicopters, which we currently have in Slovenia four, but are in use for the transport of special forces. That means there will be no special equipment here, but the pilots will have to be trained for the night transport of special forces, special forces. Their ability to transport will be the same as now other transport helicopters. Madam President, I know the time is late, so I'd like to finish here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u329	Thank you very much. It's true. We'll finish the session at 10 p.m., but we've got a replica before. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Let me just explain this about the price for the transporter plane I got it from. You said it would cost 50 million, now you're saying that we wouldn't speculate about the price, but in the meantime it was accepted by the NRP, where 72 million were given to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Bandelli want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u332	Thank you. I'll be quick because I know you'd like to finish at 10:00. There is no need to talk about battalions or others in this marriage. This law, simply put, represents one circuit, and that is understood by all of us, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In simple words, people understand what's going on. Thus, the Government adopts a law or parliament that citizens do not agree with, in a fair manner. But to test this and to see if the citizens disagree, there comes a proposal from the Left that says, let's make a referendum, set up a referendum. Now it goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court – what does it do? He'll freeze the final decisions. That's it. What does that mean? This is just before the Constitutional Court says that this law cannot go on. Here, that's the point. Since you in the government know this will happen, do — what would you say? – in Primorska, we would say, one trick: to make one new law, by which we will be able to secure the signature of contracts for the purchase of 780 million equipment – for my notions half unnecessary – past the decision of the Constitutional Court, most importantly, past the referendum. That's the whole point. What are we doing here? What attitude did this government have toward the rule of law and democracy? What kind of relationship did she show? Is there any relationship that people are not able to express themselves, right or wrong? I have personally said this, and I have repeatedly reiterated that in the military there is also a need to improve equipment, improve locations, spaces, need reconstruction of various of their buildings and everything it is. That's okay. No one's against it, you know? The problem is that the military will now be able to sign contracts because of this law and burden all the following budgets for one and a half terms. You need to be aware of that. And not with little money, not with little money. I was laughing earlier when I listened to my colleague Horvath: “Who has the power to block the country?” How, who's got the power?Oh, my God! Yes, the people and the citizens. That's why it's a referendum. I don't know how many mandates you're here, but you know exactly what referendum means, mate. Who's got the power? This is because it is likely that citizens disagree at this point in time to obtain this equipment, simply put. Right now, I'm talking. What I've been saying since the beginning. Government and coalition, don't you see what's going on right now? Monday or Sunday, we'll have it all closed again, all of it. Everything. And we're going to have $780 million for weapons. And what does the government do? What does the government do?Oh, my God! Refuse to purchase 1 million vaccines for 12 million! After 12 euros, he was one. For 12 million, he rejected 1 million vaccines, and I would buy rockets and eight-wheelers, and I don't know what, because we're gonna destroy and end this virus! I'm sure we will. You have a coalition that you see falling under your feet, it's worse every month, there's fewer people every month, and that's why you want to get through this law quickly, so you can guarantee yourself the purchase of this weapon, if you say so, which will be one and a half term. Now I'm finishing up because I think it's the same time. The one who says that the army will defend us with 6,000 soldiers in the event of a threat, as you said we will defend borders – or 6,000 or 12,000 or 3,000, is nothing. Nothing! All you have to do here is decide what we want. Obviously, that's not what the state and the citizens want, so you're afraid. You are afraid of this and therefore "let us quickly adopt this law while the majority is still in Parliament, while there is still a majority that we will do something because there is something urgent". All that is necessary is to save this country from this pandemic that is now here. These amounts and burdens for the next six years are not the goal. That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-25-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u333	Thank you very much. This will close today's debate and we will continue it tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. when we also open a new round of applications for debaters. But for today, all I want is a good night.
