ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša from 2 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajić from 13:00 and Anja Bah Žibert. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue the 27th item of the agenda – secondly, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 7 July 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening applications. We have three reported discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get Mr. Rudy Bear ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We are dealing with an extremely complex and extremely important law. My debate will be brief, with only a few emphasiss. We actually want to make a very simple move with the amendment, and this is that we want the text of the amendment, which, according to my information, has been adopted by someone who has made a mistake – that is, the text of the amendment on the committee – that is, the text of Article 16, practically reverts back to the basic, that is, the government text. What I would like to point out at this point is that, in the coalition, we have made significant adjustments to the government's text mainly with this – this is what I would like to point out – that we have raised the penalty or fine for those parking in parking spaces reserved for the disabled. So far, this fine has been €80, and we are now raising it to €200. This gives us a special sense of those most vulnerable groups. Of course, we will also support this amendment to Article 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Let me just point out that the amendment speaks of an article that sets the maximum speed and does not park in wheelchairs. The next one has the word, Mr. Rudi Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Traffic safety in Slovenia is improving, but not by causing some general human joy. However, the coalition, which now restores this halving of the fines due to the speedy ride, sees it right through these glasses, in fact more through the eyeglasses of the epidemic or the resolution of the situation during the epidemic, but these are two completely different things. If the number of infections falls during the epidemic, then we release the measures. And now I see from this that if the number of deaths or the number of accidents in Slovenia falls, which is encouraging, we relax a little. However, transport policy and the situation in the future will deny you here. Speed kills. In this regard, for many years we have watched jumbo posters along the roads. And that hasn't changed. This has not changed, it is still true that speed is one of the main causes of traffic accidents and, as a result, death on our roads. And now it saddens me that I have heard that this attempt on the parental committee, when the committee was able to erase this halving of the fines, that it was not an honest attempt, but that someone was wrong. So it was not a sincere intention to improve this law, which is fully good, brings good solutions. However, his picture points to this particular decision, or now this amendment, with which the coalition wants to restore things to their original state. And that with very, very torn arguments. It's so torn that you're already writing past the driver's car, even if it's not too fast, I'd blow that argument away. In fact, you claim that punishments, whatever they are, do not mean deterring people from driving too fast, which practice does not attach to. If the number of accidents and the number of victims of traffic accidents is decreasing, it is constantly decreasing due to the transport policy that we once adopted, it means that penalties are also an important deterrent element. You're saying it doesn't deter returnees. Yeah, of course he's not distracting them right now. If they have money, they should pay. But if the penalties are reduced again, these returnees will, of course, be even more so because more people will be able to pay these fines. And here we are with another element where you are socially involved in transport security policy. That's ridiculous. That's ridiculous. I mean, in a number of other areas, this coalition is not so socially sensitive, but now it would be in transport policy at once. And you're saying that the penalties have to be reduced because some people can't pay them. The fine for a traffic offence is not a compulsory duty, it is not a compulsory duty. If someone can't pay you, just drive by the book. This is another argument that falls, and, of course, questions your decision to lower these fines. I am more inclined to believe that you want to legitimize this mainly because of the near elections, because it will be a pleasant thing in the campaign for election, and we have reduced your sentences. But this is very short-sighted and will take very little time. I am also surprised that the Agency for Transport Safety, which must be the first guardian in this country in the field of transport safety, does not find this reduction of fines at all controversial. I should really be conservative and, of course, be the first to oppose it, but she's okay with it. If these penalties were to be reduced, they should, of course, be accompanied by some accompanying measures, which would also have a preventive and educational function. Because now, as I have heard, you say in the same breath, you need to act preventively and educationally, which, of course, penalties are reliable. The old river says the punishment's up. And in the same breath, you lower those fines. I think it's a rather short-sighted policy in the Marjan Sharca List, and that someday she'll come back as a boomerang. However, those of you who support this invitation, go to the annual meeting of the Institute of Safety, where people who have been victims of traffic accidents are gathered, where the relatives of the fatalities are gathered in traffic accidents, and you will hear their stories. You will hear their stories and regret that you have not done so, because you would not now propose such an amendment again. But there's still time, and it's time for us all to wonder whether that's right or wrong. And until the vote, I hope that, this time honestly and not because of the wrong vote, this amendment will virtually be rejected and the law will be as very good in this transport policy mosaic in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I have a slightly different opinion than I just heard. I must say that I have been a member of the Transport Safety Agency for several years or decades, even for two decades – I am also very actively involved with the Transport Safety Agency – a member of the Municipal Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education. And as far as punishment, punishment, speeding fines or speeding was concerned, there was always a lot of talk and a lot of different thinking. In particular, the penalties, as we know, were being lifted up in Slovenia, and they were lifting again. In short, we have always looked for solutions to convince drivers that it is necessary to drive on our roads at the right speed or speed. Of course, I agree that the speed is too high, that is, the speed that is inappropriate, is deadly. But in the same breath, I can say that everything is not only in criminal policy, but it is mainly awareness or prevention and education here. There's still a lot to be done here, a lot of things that have already happened. If we compare ourselves with Western countries, or with European developed countries, which are also in the field of transport, as in many others, well ahead of us. We know why things were so much more domestic in our country, and in all areas, of course, also in transport. And what some cannot accept is that it is necessary to comply with road traffic regulations and to drive at the speed prescribed, because these speeds prescribed on our roads are not free of charge or just in three days, but experts have measured and determined, depending on what the road is, what the terrain configuration is, what the transparency is, whether it is in a settlement or outside the settlement, whether there are many movements of pedestrians or sidewalks or not, the speeds are prescribed and, of course, should also be maintained. If we look at the penalties, for example in Austria or Germany, with which we like to compare ourselves very often, we find that our sentences are much higher for speeding. So our fines are much higher. It should also be noted that traffic accidents are on the decline, that they are getting smaller and I somehow agree with and support the Government's proposal, as well as the agreement of the Transport Safety Agency that these penalties are somehow comparable to other countries or that these penalties or fines for speeding are not only comparable but also appropriate. Of course, the problems are with returnees, which are unlikely to be punished by any kind of punishment, can still be so high. If they do not comply with the rules, and if they do so often, they will continue to do so until they are met in some way, or they will not cause any major traffic accidents with serious consequences such as disability and, God forbid, even death. I’m better worried that it can happen to the driver in the village, that he can slightly overlook it, but it can happen to anyone, because it has to be said clearly that it goes slightly beyond that speed permit, but he has to be aware that he made a mistake and he has to fix it. Nor do I believe that a normal, skilled driver will drive across the entire village at an elevated speed. There's no such case, but it happens that the speed is a little bit higher, and by the way, you run into a measurement. And, of course, the punishment follows, there's no one else here. I think that this punishment, this fine, which is now prescribed by the amendment to Article 16 of the Act, is appropriate. Perhaps I would just add this when I hear from the debate, and don't mind me, because I'm going to give this comparison, it would be right if we didn't have double criteria. When it was a problem to wear masks or break the law or rule for an epidemic on the ground, it was said to warn people that we should warn them not to punish them, not to punish them, but to warn people as much as possible, that we should have a softer way of telling them what is right and what is wrong, and that people will understand it sooner than if we punish them or do so. Then let's put it here, bring it here, and give maybe more warnings, more training and prevention. I believe that when a cop gets him, that he has driven him too fast, when he warns him that it also depends on something and that a number of ideas and then he is more careful, even more cautious than he should have been before, until the returnee, those who are constantly violating it, will not help him any warning, but will boast a little more around that he was just warned and will gladly break the rules forward. Therefore, I do not think there is a need for penalties for slightly over speeds to be as high as those in comparable countries, such as Austria and Germany. I only hope that this trend of disaster reduction in Slovenia will remain as low as possible and that somehow we will all be aware of the need to be careful on the road, that road traffic rules must be respected. Above all, it is necessary to work on prevention and education, as far as speed is concerned, with young people, especially young people. We know that when young people come out of school driving when they pass exams, most of them stick to the rules for quite some time, and then some start getting out and then they stick to it, I think, quite a time. So there is much more to be done in prevention and training. This will prevent traffic accidents and various disabilities and deaths, and therefore the budget will not be burdened, nor will the family, family members, because of the severe consequences, i.e. disability or even death. I'll be happy to confirm this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Joseph Horvath and then Mr. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank you for your warning that in my debate I may have gone a little beyond the scope of this amendment to Article 16. A colleague, Mr Rudi Medved, also went to the polls. My experience is simply that elections are not a Thanksgiving, so please don't think that we wanted and thought of a better election outcome here. Don't joke. As far as this amendment is concerned, we didn't just write these fines because we'd like these numbers. In line with the principle of proportionality, which is a fundamental principle of criminal law and constitutes a limitation of the State's power of command, certain fines are reduced to exceed the maximum speed allowed. The number of discussions and the number of studies on the effects of high sanctions is high, and the findings are very different. We have a very difficult task here as legislators. It's extremely difficult. For example, the findings of studies and studies show that the amount of the fine has no effect on return, a survey involving about 15,000 offenders, this is already a good sample, or you can say, yes, leave statistics, statistics lie, but someone has been working with some good intentions, professionally, it is said, a survey involving about 15,000 offenders has shown that drivers with longer driving permits were more frequent returnees. However, a study involving 13,000 convicted drivers for driving under the influence of alcohol showed that the amount of punishment even had a reverse effect on return. It's research. We can't politicize and politicize this here. While the findings of studies on the preventive effect of high or increased penalties differ, the findings of studies on the effects of the certainty of punishment are uniform. Research has shown that the certainty of punishment, greater control and thus a higher probability of punishment is a deterrent to the service of prohibited conduct, to a greater extent than the severity of punishment. The lower fines for exceeding certain maximum permitted speeds are also comparable to the fines prescribed for such offences, for example in Germany, because we often like to compare ourselves with Germany. For example, the fine to exceed the maximum allowed speed in the village for 20 kilometres per hour is €70 in Germany and €250 and three penalty points in Slovenia under the current law and €120 and three criminal points under the proposal of this amendment. Colleagues and colleagues! We are talking so much about digitisation – this is out of the amendment again – in New Slovenia we want this digitisation to reach out and help with road safety, because we are talking about smart roads today, smart vehicles. Yes, it would be good if we had as many smart roads as possible and as many smart vehicles as possible, they will help you most with the drivers we have, which we sometimes have a property that is not marked by the word smart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Transport security is, of course, one of the priorities that each country should essentially pursue. Of course, the issue of penalties for achieving an appropriate level and level of transport safety is a very delicate issue, which is never uniform. My predecessor, colleague Horvath, said that studies on this were different, but in fact the idea of punishment was to deter the perpetrator from doing so. That's basically the basic task. In fact, I would like someone to say that it is a condition that the Government can reduce or that the Ministry can propose a reduction of the penalty, to find that the existing ones are ineffective or that even if they fall, traffic safety as a result of the reduction of the penalty will not deteriorate. However, the linkage in this respect is very difficult to prove. It will be difficult to determine in one or two years whether the reduction of the penalty was a reason for possible deterioration of traffic safety in Slovenia. We must be aware that Slovenia is essentially a transit country, we see it every day on our roads. Nor is the criterion for the number of dead per million people in this respect correct, because we have a very large share of foreign traffic. For example, we compare the number of dead with Croatia, which is not in this sense a transit country, or with Bosnia or another country, perhaps Austria, where it is in fact only one way, because this traffic is from the west to the east essentially via Slovenia, and we should, in fact, have to look at the density of traffic and the number of kilometres transported in connection with the number of vehicles going through Slovenia. I think that would actually be one more objective indicator than just how many are dead per million people. Because if we look at how many accidents happen, for example, in some places where the speeds are usually lower, we'll see that most of us, I'll say, most of these accidents with the consequences of death happen outside of fragmented settlements and this is also related to speeding. In the SAB party, we said that we somehow disagree with the mode of transport security that is now essentially the proposal of this amendment, because in fact there is no evidence because there is no single proof that this will have a favourable impact on traffic security. Once again, the idea of punishment is that the perpetrator is deterred from serving the offence. In the SAB, we also said that if this amendment, which we are currently discussing, we will not support the law – the law is, in principle, very good – and we will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much. We have not yet heard from the proponents any of the professional reasons for such, I would say, a drastic reduction of the fines. None. Except that some studies say something and some say something else. Above all, why should we always look at what it is like in Austria or in Germany, and if the system we have since 2011, that is ten years, it works, people know it, and it also psychologically affects them. And right in the last ten years, since we've had such a system installed, traffic safety has been significantly improving. So this is our argument that we are against such a drastic reduction of these fines. Of course you're forgetting something else. If someone is now covered with 40 euros, according to your opinion, they will actually pay 20 euros. You're forgetting those halfs. That's what's left, isn't it? And some of the fines that now at first look, as you say, will be proportionate, which suddenly become minor. It is precisely because of this educational and psychological moment that we believe that such a drastic reduction of these fines is absolutely wrong. Of course, it's not just about criminal policy, it's about education and prevention, but you know that, because when it hits you in the pocket, you realize you're doing something wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Since I do not see a government representative, we will continue to consider the report of the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Aljaž Kovacic, Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture is at its 14th regular session of 23. 6. 2021 As a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The Committee had before it a proposal for a law, an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, a recommendation by the Advocate of the principle of equality of the Republic of Slovenia, the position of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia on the proposal for a law, the amendments tabled by qualified applicants and the proposal for an amendment to the Committee. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Vice-President of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, the representative of Pro Plus, the representative of the Slovenian Advertising Chamber, the representative of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, the Association of Cable Operators of Slovenia, the Association of Associations of Slovenian Film Creators, the Media Chamber, the representative of the Association of Slovenian Animated Film and the representative of the Association of Slovenian Digital Television Operators. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the group of non-connected Members of Parliament and the LMŠ. The representative of the Government briefly presented the draft law in the introductory explanation. The Legislative and Legal Service has made specific comments to the Article of the Act. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the main part of the ZPS' comments with the amendments had been taken into account and reiterated her comments to the articles which had not been complied with and explained why the amendment had not been decided. The Committee received an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which, on the basis of the comments made by interested stakeholders and the discussion by the Commission of the draft law, did not support it. They also presented their opinions and views to the meeting. In the debate, representatives of opposition parties felt that there was a great deal of inconsistencies in the bill. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service have not been taken into account; there is no clear distinction between the competent agencies for communication networks and services and the Ministry of Culture; the implementation of the law remains open to practice. The new law does not address the key shortcomings of the current law, this is the definition of European audiovisual works, which is not in line with the definition of Slovenian audiovisual work. It was pointed out that the drafter did not pursue the purpose of the directive itself or comparable solutions in other EU Member States. As a result of this directive they have introduced the name Netflix tax abroad. The Directive is primarily intended to regulate the situation between domestic, or European, AV service providers on request, and foreign, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime. The Directive is based on the protection of European providers who offer a large part of European AV content and pay taxes in the EU and the contribution burdens foreign global providers. The Ministry of Culture is doing the opposite with the proposal. Netflix will be burdened with the same burden as Slovenian suppliers, with programme publishers also burdened. Regarding the establishment of a special media fund, it has been said that they agree, but they wish to be an independent public agency. The most controversial were the provisions of Article 15 of the bill, which, among other things, required the audiovisual media service provider to contribute 2% of the gross annual income generated in Slovenia each year to the newly established budget fund. The funds raised will be used to finance projects in the field of European audiovisual production. The coalition parliamentary groups proposed with the amendment that this contribution be fixed at 6 % of gross annual income. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. The text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mr Matjaž German. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Before that, I apologize, Mr German, and Mr Horvat on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to ask you to give your word to Vlad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Mr Horvat, as regards this timetable for further explanations of the law, the order does not change and the representatives of the Government are obliged to follow the meeting and be in their place at the right time. I looked around the hall. There was no Secretary of State. It is true, however, that he has 30 minutes of time to discuss, so that he will have sufficient time to explain his position. Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The area of audiovisual services is a wide and complex area, which is uniformly regulated by the Directives adopted in all Member States. And this novelty of the law is no different. This is about harmonising the Slovenian acquis with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14. 11. 2018 amending Directive 2010/13/EU on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the management of audiovisual media services in the light of changing market conditions. In the five minutes allocated for the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I can only summarize the main solutions to the proposed novel. However, these relate to the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other Member States, the promotion of co-regulation and self-regulation of media literacy, the transparency of data on audiovisual media service providers, the prohibition of the promotion of violence and hatred and public protection for the service of terrorist crime, the protection of children in audiovisual media services, the availability of audiovisual media services for persons with disabilities, audiovisual commercial communications, the promotion of European works, video-sharing platforms. The proposal for the amendment of the Law has received greater comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in our opinion, have not been completely eliminated by the proposed amendments to the Committee, so we cannot and will not support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Nor can we support the new law because, in our view, the proposed solutions do not follow the very purpose of the directive, even though the proposaler emphasises this harmonisation. As pointed out in the Committee, the proposed solution cannot be compared with solutions in other EU Member States. There is also no clear distinction between the competences of AKOS and the Ministry of Culture. We are particularly interested in how the law will be implemented if this is the only one that will be adopted. But since I have no doubt in my mind about the obedient coalition, I hope that this will not happen. In addition to this, we believe that the key shortcomings in the current law relating to the definition of European audiovisual works have not been addressed and are not in line with the definition of Slovenian audiovisual work, as has already been said today. This has also been pointed out by Slovenian film producers, both at home and abroad, in Europe and in the world. Unlike the current government, which has been pushing Slovenia into a club of countries that do not respect the rule of law as fundamental values of the EU over the past year. Members and Members of the Social Democrats do not support the proposed amendment to the Audiovisual Media Services Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. The draft law brings the European Directive on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services in the light of the changing market situation. Issues concerning the potential for the development of Slovenian audiovisual production as an integral part of European audiovisual production are also being addressed. The Directive also regulates other important content: media literacy, the prohibition of the promotion of violence, hatred and protection of crime, the protection of children in audiovisual media services, the availability of audiovisual media services for persons with disabilities, the areas of audiovisual commercial communication and so on. We do not support the bill in the left hand side. The comments of the ZPS are numerous. They apply to all articles, but they are also not consistently taken into account in the coalition's amendments. We believe that the proposal for a law is in many respects flawed and meaningfully indeterminate. The proposed regulation also seems incomplete and therefore difficult to implement. The proposal mixes the powers of the two bodies, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services – the AKOS, which under the applicable law is responsible for the supervision of the law, and the Ministry of Culture, which appears to manage the new fund. However, it is not possible to understand how the implementation of the proposal would be carried out in practice from a discussion of the proposed provision, which summarises the directives and the Communication from the European Commission and does not explain the idea of the transposition of those provisions into the Slovenian legal order. The current Ministry of Culture, with the history of the restructuring of the media landscape, is therefore proposing another measure by which it now legitimizes its illegal and illegal government aspirations. But in Levica, we are not the only ones who read the law as harmful. The film creators' cover association also points to the following: the novel does not address the key shortcomings of the current law regarding the definition of European audiovisual works. The Association proposes to complement the definition by aligning it with the definition of Slovenian audiovisual works and allowing production and production of audiovisual works by authors, such as films, continuums and nuances, documentary and animated films. The profession, i.e. the association of on-board professional associations of Slovenian film makers, considers that the proposed solutions envisaged for the transfer of the provisions in the draft law require appropriate completion. Firstly, the definition of European audiovisual works, secondly, the share of European audiovisual works and, thirdly, the contribution to the development of European audiovisual works. It is therefore necessary to provide a precise definition of the content elements of audiovisual work, including the definition of content that is exclusive from the time taken into account, such as reports, sports events and so on. In addition, the tasks of managing the new fund, i.e. the Fund for European Audiovisual Production, the preparation of sub-legislative acts and the implementation of public calls and calls for funds, should be taken over by the Slovenian Film Centre, a public agency which is the equivalent of the national film funds referred to in the Directive and which participates in the association of directors of the European film directives, which also provides it with easier access to the data necessary for the implementation of cross-border schemes. It is now proposed to establish a new fund as a budget fund under the auspices and supervision of the Ministry of Culture. So, against the Ministry of Culture, the history of redefinitioning the media landscape, comes again with another measure by which its illegal and illegal government aspirations of law. But filmmakers are not the only ones who point to the shortcomings and protagonists of the present proposal. It was also criticized by Radiotelevision Slovenia, presented by the Association of Cable Operators, the Association of Journalists of Slovenia and others. We don't support the law in Levica. However, we welcome the amendment tabled by the non-aligned Members' Group, the LMŠ and the SAB, as it brings welcome news in the area of accounting for the contribution of audiovisual media services on demand, which in practice means fair taxation of media giants, who, while in the Republic of Slovenia, avoid paying taxes by means of fraudulent methods, while European tax providers pay and fulfil the share of European audiovisual works and invest substantial resources in production. In other words – Netflix, HBO, Amazon and other media giants should pay a fair tax in Slovenia so that they can also create creators depending on the Slovenian audiovisual cash register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. By amending the Audiovisual Media Services Act, we follow the European Directive and implement it into our space. The bill is based on the same principles on which the existing law is based. The law sends a great deal of solutions. It is necessary that media service providers and video platform providers, in cooperation with all stakeholders concerned, promote the development of media literacy in all social strata, for citizens of all ages and for all media, and that progress in this area is closely monitored. The law prohibits, through audiovisual media services, the promotion of national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, the protection of the service of terrorist acts and the provocation of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance. Programme content shall also be regulated which may harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and minors by establishing an arrangement based on the prior publication of an appropriate acoustic and visual warning, the labelling of these programme content with an appropriate visual symbol and the placement of them within the appropriate time frame or the establishment of appropriate technical protection. There is also a specific provision for informative programming content where an appropriate warning to viewers or other appropriate warning should be given sufficiently early in the event of any inappropriate scenes before they are broadcast. The law provides that audiovisual media service providers should gradually improve access to their services for persons with disabilities and report on the implementation of this obligation to the Agency every three years, with the first report being forwarded by the end of April 2024 for the past three years. They increase their obligations to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least 30% of European works in their catalogue and ensure that these works are put at the forefront. A fund for European audiovisual works is being established. All providers of audiovisual media services based in Slovenia and established abroad will contribute 6% in Slovenia of the traffic created each year. The Fund will be managed by the Ministry of Culture. The funds will be used to finance the area of European audiovisual production. The diversity of opinions is more than just a diversity of information. Even more data does not necessarily mean higher quality and more opinions. Information society is not necessarily a smart society, so global media must make it possible to access European, national and regional content. The media must not favour certain opinions or unjustifiably repeat them more than others. They must prevent the automatic formulation of opinions and hate speech. Due to the diversity and strong influence of the media, individual professional and social cooperation requires media literacy. People of all generations must learn to manage more data and electronic communication in order to live today. Media literacy and access to a wide range of media offers are particularly important for people with disabilities. The proposal to amend the law follows these objectives, so we will support the law in Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats, and the amendment tabled by the opposition parties will not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The new Audiovisual Media Services Act transposes the Directive on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the management of audiovisual media services into the Slovenian Order. As we know, rapid technological development in recent years has allowed for new types of services and user experience. The habits, especially those of younger generations, have enabled the rapid expansion of transmission devices to view audiovisual content. New patterns, offers, habits and trends represent content created by users themselves. At the same time, users also become providers of video content on request and platforms for the exchange of these same content or products. In all of this, we must not forget the maximum protection of children against harmful content offered online. The essential amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive still concern only those services whose main purpose is to provide software content for information, entertainment or education. The resolution of the amendment follows in particular the provisions of the amended Directive. The draft law thus preserves the existing obligation to ensure the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other Member States of the European Union. However, the Communications Network and Services Agency may take appropriate measures to exercise its powers against audiovisual media service providers falling within the competence of another Member State of the European Union and also against electronic communications operators which enable the dissemination of audiovisual media services. The draft law also complements the existing dataset with data on persons with a minimum of 5 % ownership or management share or share of voting rights in the property of the tenderer. In addition, the existing prohibition on the promotion of inequality and intolerance is adequately complemented by stressing the prohibition of promoting national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, and prohibiting the protection of terrorist acts and the challenge of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance with audiovisual media services. The draft law also includes measures for the protection of children used for television broadcasting services. These measures will also have to apply to audiovisual media services on request. The most harmful content that could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children, but not necessarily a crime, must be subject to the strictest measures, such as encryption and effective tools for parental control, without prejudice to the ability of Member States to take more stringent measures. More important solutions to the novel in question must also include the obligation to gradually improve accessibility to audiovisual media services for people with disabilities. However, the solution introduced by the contribution to the development of European audiovisual works was more recent, according to which 6 % of the gross annual income generated in the Republic of Slovenia should be contributed to the budget each year by the audiovisual media service providers following the addition adopted on the parent board. It is a fund for European audiovisual production, which will be established if the novel under consideration is adopted and the aim of which is to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields, to create appropriate conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activities, and to develop and educate film and audiovisual activities. There are many other solutions to the proposal under consideration, which are based on the directive in question. We believe that these are properly addressed. This is why we will support the amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Act in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Marko Bandelli, who will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! By means of the draft law before us, we transpose the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The novela brings many good solutions, and many are worth welcoming. Thus, additional child protection is welcome, for example in terms of labelling content at issue or stricter provisions on their protection against inappropriate commercial messages for foods with high fat, salt, sodium and sugar. This is particularly welcome at a time when we are dealing not only with the covida-19 epidemic, but also with the epidemic of overnutrition and obesity in children. There are also stricter provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred, public protection of terrorist offences in television programmes and videos on demand, and increased obligations to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand. But it seems that this government simply needs to include in good marriages solutions that overshadow the good ones as if they could not have done without it. This novel is no exception either. The Ministry has included a proposal from the Fund for the Development of European Audiovisual Works, which is good and also in line with the Directive. Then it began to get stuck, first in determining a fund supervisor for whom the Ministry had determined itself in the original version of the law. Then that their control of their own operation is legally inadequate, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And with the amendment of the coalition groups, the provision in question was withdrawn. But the story isn't over here. The Article still leaves an inadequate transposition of the Directive. It is clear from Article 13 of the Directive: "Member States shall ensure that media service providers, under their responsibility, who offer AV media services on request, allocate an appropriate proportion to European works and may also require them to contribute financially to the production of European works." So, the bidders on request. However, the Ministry provided for contributions to the Fund for all AV media providers, for example TV broadcasters. It justified its decision by the provision laid down in the directive, which points out that the proportionality and non-discrimination of contributions should be taken into account and explained that the determination of only tenderers at the request would therefore be discriminatory, which is, of course, absurd in the light of the directive's dictates. In this way, they themselves have been caught in the trap of discrimination, as additional taxation is detrimental to domestic providers who are already paying taxes in one way or another, and also achieve and exceed the conditions laid down in relation to the production of domestic and European audiovisual content. In our view, it is therefore essential to adopt the amendment tabled together with the non-aligned groups of Members of Parliament and the LMŠ. If the amendment is not adopted, we cannot support the law in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Given the growth of various audiovisual service providers, competent legislation must also respond appropriately to the changes. Developments and changes in services are developing at incredible speeds. From the classic VHS cassettes we borrowed from us in libraries, to the DVD generation and now perfect digitization. Everything is available to us through a screen on TV, a computer, or a phone. Access to endless collections of audiovisual works is only a touch away. In recent years, we have seen especially the incredible development of digital service providers. YouTube, which is a permanent companion of our home projects, music and other recordings, Netflix, which has become synonymous with series and movies, Wine and now TikTok, who have taken over the hearts of younger generations, and also could even list. Restricting access to these services is virtually impossible. However, the bidders themselves are already limiting the supply by market. In the United States, Netflix has such a wide range of series and films, while providers such as Disney+ are, in principle, not yet available to us. This, as it is said, does not mean that resourceful users cannot use them. However, negative effects have begun to emerge due to such digital accessibility and impossible restrictions. In particular, the younger are extremely susceptible to such bombings with different trends or even negative activities. Harmful content that can lead to disastrous consequences from teenage stupidity — just remember how young people around the world ate washing pills. In view of the increase in the occurrence of such harmful images, service providers have also started to introduce additional protections. Thus, controversial videos, which on popular portals display violence, promote terrorism or deceive, are faster blocked and removed from the Internet. However, we can never achieve full protection. The ultimate guardian must be parents and guardians of children, who must be protected from the appearance and dissemination of inappropriate content. The adopted novels will harmonise Slovenian legislation with the EU acquis. In addition, it will allow for greater protection of platform users and will set additional obligations for tenderers. While the increase in the number of ads is negative for a user who wants to enjoy a continuous tour, they are still within the limits of normal if I compare this quantity with the rest of the world. Advertising outside the EU borders is much more aggressive. While the Committee on Culture discussed the possibility of financial burdens for foreign global service providers, the so-called Netflix tax. However, before such concrete interventions, we should start by encouraging domestic service providers to provide quality and fresh content. The first step is already by setting up a fund to finance domestic production. And the second step is that we are viewers who need to start appreciating domestic creators more. In the Desus Group we will support the amendment of the Audiovisual and Media Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Hello! The main objective of the bill is to harmonise the regulation of audiovisual media services with the legal order of the European Union. The Directive should be transposed into Slovenian legislation by September last year, which is a nine-month delay. By means of this Directive, the European Union responds to the revised market, in particular audiovisual services at the request of Netflix, Amazon Prime and others, and proposes to extend certain rules for these services, including platforms for the exchange of video and social media such as YouTube, Facebook and others. All of this is particularly important in the globalised media market to safeguard the competitiveness of European providers and consumer protection. Providers will have to label content that may harm the physical or mental development of children and protect children from advertising foods with high fat, salt, sodium and sugar. There are also stricter provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and the protection of terrorism. The amended Directive increases the obligation to promote European audiovisual works. The bill therefore proposes the establishment of a fund for European AV production, which will be managed by the Ministry responsible for the media. The proposal requires AV media service providers to contribute 6% of the gross annual income generated in Slovenia to the budget fund. The newly established fund would be financed from these funds. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we agree on the establishment of a special media fund to increase the payments of foreign providers and thus strengthen European and thus Slovenian audiovisual production. However, we note that among the most controversial solutions, Article 15 and the proposal for a new Article 16a, which imposes on AV media service providers that each year they contribute 6% of the gross annual income generated in Slovenia to the newly established fund. The funds collected would be used to finance projects in the field of European AV production. It is unacceptable for us that international large audiovisual media services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime are aligned with Slovenian providers of these content. With the LMŠ, we have drafted an amendment stipulating that Member States may also require such financial contributions from media service providers whose target audience is in their territory and who are established in other Member States. These contributions must be proportionate and non-discriminatory. Since it has not been adopted, we have redrafted an amendment that relates in particular to a clearer definition of the solutions proposed. The fact is that domestic European providers in their home countries pay taxes and meet the requirements for the share of European AV works. They invest substantial resources in these works either for the production or for the purchase of licences for their installation in their services. The Directive allows Member States to commit media service providers, on request, to paying specific contributions, as it has proved to be less invested in European production than, for example, broadcasters. This means that the directive is intended primarily for AV media service providers on request and not for broadcasters, which is proposed by the Ministry of Culture in the amendment to the law. The essence of the directive is to protect European providers who offer a greater share of European content in their programmes and pay taxes in the European Union, and to charge mainly foreign global providers who generate revenues in the European Union and who are established outside the European Union, if at all, to pay elsewhere. In addition, they offer little European production and nothing Slovenian. The Ministry of Culture is doing exactly the opposite with its proposal for a solution, as is the primary purpose of the directive. For example, according to a proposal from the Ministry, Netflix will be burdened with contributions in the same way as Slovenian suppliers, and programme publishers will also be burdened. We therefore propose that a new contribution be fixed for the audiovisual media service providers on request, taking into account the investments they make for the production or purchase of licences. It is also necessary to define the basis more clearly from which the contribution is measured, i.e. only revenue, including subscriptions and advertisements for the provision of services on request, but not the revenue from subscription and advertising. If our amendment is adopted, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members. Without the support of our amendment, there will be even greater costs and a real shift from the purpose of the directive, for which the Ministry of Culture and Coalition Members will take responsibility, because the prevalence of patriotism remains a deadlock when you think of how to take over our people and please foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Nicely greeted! The main objective of the Audiovisual Media Services Act is to harmonise audiovisual media services with the legal order. The second objective is to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the existing law and to ensure that legal provisions are even clearer and more specific. The draft law transposes two European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive provides a reinforced principle of the country of origin with clearer rules on which Member States are subject to harmonised derogation procedures for broadcasters and also for service providers on request, as well as a possibility of derogation in the event of serious risks to public safety and public health. It also extends certain rules for audiovisual media services to video exchange platforms, i.e. the amended Directive covers services such as YouTube and audiovisual content shared through social media such as Facebook. It also provides greater protection for children against harmful content on the Internet. The new rules strengthen the protection of children in video services on demand and extend the mandatory protection of children to video exchange platforms, which must take appropriate measures for this purpose. It also transposes stricter provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection to the service of terrorist offences in television programmes and videos on demand. Official measures to protect people from the promotion of violence or hatred and content constituting crimes must also be taken by providers of video-sharing platforms. The law increases the obligation to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least 30 % of European works in their catalogue and ensure that these works are put at the forefront. The law also provides greater flexibility in television advertising than the current 12 minutes per hour can account for 20 percent of the broadcast time between 6 and 18 and 20 percent between 18 and 24 hours. There are also stricter provisions on the protection of children against inappropriate audiovisual commercial messages for foods with high fat, salt, sodium and sugar, including the promotion of codes of conduct at EU level where necessary. The law also provides the Fund for European Audiovisual Production, which will be allocated to promote creativity in the film and audiovisual fields, for film and cinema, and for education in these areas. The main solutions addressed by the bill are the freedom to adopt audiovisual media services from other Member States, the promotion of co-regulation and self-regulation, media literacy, transparency of data on audiovisual media service providers, the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection of the service of terrorist crime, the protection of children in audiovisual media services, the availability of audiovisual media services for persons with disabilities, audiovisual commercial communication, the promotion of European works and video-sharing platforms. The Committee also presented its opinions and views to representatives of the profession and the various organisations who assessed that the government proposal is largely correct and correctly implements the EU Directive. In preparing the law, the Ministry of Culture also took into account some comments that appeared in the public debate. It is imperative to confirm the law, since Slovenia will pay the penalty for not transferring European directives into our legal order. Let me remind you that we have already paid 750 000 euros in fines because the government has not done and has not transposed certain directives. In the SDS Group, we will support the Audiovisual Media Services Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present as the last position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Many years ago, in the National Assembly, we said and discussed how the issue should be addressed in order to burden those who offer their services on request in the Republic of Slovenia. We addressed these questions and, in fact, we were kind of angry with the Ministry of Finance about how it really couldn't handle this issue, and we were getting answers all the time, which were one and the same. This is that this will be settled at the European level and that this issue will be resolved more or less and that it will, in fact, be any moment in Slovenia. For several years we have waited, waited and waited and received a directive which, of course, regulates and solves a number of certain issues. Of course, the problem arises when this government enters the story, especially this incompetent ministry of culture, which really wants to solve it in a kind of way, in a way that actually equates foreign providers such as Netflix, HBO, Amazon, and compares them not only with those who offer their services via the Internet, it is said, on demand, but also regular televisions, it is a linear aspect. Which means he's actually putting it all in one basket and he's putting it on. What exactly is the difference? The difference is very simple. That those who should be burdened do not pay taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. Those who are now being burdened, who are already paying taxes, are already investing in the infrastructure itself and also in the purchases of licences, and now for the reward because they are doing so, we also bear the same burden as those of others. Where's he going? This certainly leads to a kind of rebellion that we will experience in a very short time. Indeed, what they have been investing on the other hand will prove to be no longer worth it. They will follow the same smooth principle that foreigners do. Some will close their doors because they are too small and simply cannot handle it. And that's really the purpose. The purpose of this government, this ministry. Because, in fact, with some ignorance, incompetence or a clear goal and a clear plan, he wants everything to be destroyed by the end. Just to compare how this law came about. Last year at this time, in July and August, when most people are on vacation, we had a public debate. They were in a hurry. Then, for a year, we watched the formation of this law, of course, not a single proposal was taken into account by all the stakeholders involved in this public debate. Very similar to the media law, which, of course, was being prepared in the same ministry. Which, of course, means a clear goal, destructive and destructive and, of course, subjugate and destroy everything that is possible. However, I will, as always, draw attention to what is important in this Chamber for all Members and Members. The government can do a lot of things, and Members and Members of Parliament are the last defender, whether we stop it or simply do things and praise and make praises about how great and wonderful everything is. This directive has some good things to do. And if we've always been angry with the government to simply rewrite the directive and introduce it into the law, this government has upgraded it in a kind of way and has done everything else, just what the directive allows. This is a distinction between the protection of European work and not what we actually get from this law. Of course, this marriage, hand to heart, is not worth serious consideration in the National Assembly. However, since this is the case, in the National Assembly this law is, we will deal with it and, of course, in the LMŠ Group, we will categorically reject these inactions or measures against our own industry. This law goes against people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8 Seven. 2021. I therefore put to the debate article 11a and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I see you don't. Then we conclude the debate and move on to Article 15. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, the LMŠ and the SAB. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Good-bye! The new law brings some good solutions, in particular five. Perhaps only quickly: strengthening media literacy as a first, the second amendment is that the amended Audiovisual Services Directive also prohibits the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection to the service of terrorist crime, thirdly, the protection of children in AV media services, fourthly, audiovisual commercial communication, which means that in the new proposal there will be approximately one hour less notices in 24 hours, and fifthly, the promotion of European works. These are certainly things that make sense for this novel to be implemented. However, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the proposaler has forgotten some things. In the amendment we tabled in the LMŠ, also in order to ensure higher standards of accessibility of disabled persons to audiovisual media services – I will not talk about it because I cannot talk about it because I cannot follow the procedure – but I am certainly pleased that the coalition has also realized that this amendment is good and has been supported by the committee. I hope they do too today. But we would like to talk about the amendment that we tabled with unrelated Members. In fact, the amendment actually follows the EU Directive in this area, and in order to determine a new contribution to the fund in a way that is different from what the Government has done, for the first time, only for the AV service providers on request, secondly, we also define the basis more clearly, from which the contribution is measured - these are only revenues from activities on request - and very important thirdly, for domestic providers, to take into account also investments in European production and the purchase of licences for the use of EU AV parts and also the profit tax paid by each AV service provider on request in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, this amendment proposes a more reasonable tax burden by making the law more acceptable in accordance with the Directive and in accordance with all the comments made by the public concerned. There was a very gruesome debate on what this new fund meant and a new tax on Slovenian suppliers. Thus, with this amendment we do exactly what the Government has actually forgotten, we want to protect Slovenian or European providers who offer a greater share of European AV content in their programmes and also pay taxes in the EU. And that's what seems most important to us in the List of Marjana Sharcas. Thus, this amendment actually improves things for Slovenian bidders. Therefore, in the letter of Marjan Šarc, as we say, this amendment, which we have tabled together with the unconnected, will also be supported. And I hope that this amendment will also support the coalition, so that we can then support this law if not, and of course we will not support it, as my colleague Jani said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Friedl Jarc, State Secretary, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Dear Chairman! Dear Members and Members! Thank you so much for your words and welcome! Unfortunately, I have not been able to get out of the waiting room so quickly, but perhaps now I would like to point out once again that Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 is being transposed into the legal order of Slovenia. The Directive amends the 2010 Directive, which was transposed into the Slovenian legal order (ZAVMS) in 2011, so we are simply amending the existing law and not adopting a new law. It should be noted, however, that this is a transposition of the directive. So, for the commitment to the rule of law adopted by the European Parliament. The main objective of the bill is to harmonise the regulation of audiovisual media services with the legal order of the EU, strengthen the principle of the country of origin, and set out in Article 6 the clear competence of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services to take appropriate measures against audiovisual media service providers and electronic communications operators who offer them do not have a seat in Slovenia, but in another Member of the European Union. The information on the provider’s ownership structure shall also be added to the mandatory data. An obligation is introduced for audiovisual media service providers to gradually and continuously improve accessibility to their services to persons with disabilities and to prepare a accessibility improvement plan every three years and then report on the implementation to the Agency. As has already been pointed out, the protection of children against harmful content in the online world is increasing. More stringent are the provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection for the service of terrorist offences in television programmes, on-demand videos and video-sharing platforms. The obligation to promote European works in audiovisual media services is increasing at the request of at least 30% of European works in its catalogue and to ensure that these works are put at the forefront. A fund for the production of audiovisual works is being established, to which all audiovisual media service providers will contribute. There is greater flexibility in television advertising and there are also certain rules on audiovisual media services, including on the platform for video exchange and audiovisual content shared through social media. The advertising of tobacco products is prohibited or extended to electronic cigarettes. In accordance with the amended provisions of the Act, criminal provisions have also been updated, and we would like to point out once again that this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act is clearly following the European Law Directive, and that is why it is precisely as regards the position that we can add a "on request" word link, we have also obtained the opinion of the Law and Law Service, which clearly emphasises that such a distinction would be illegal and contrary to the Directive. The proposal that the payment of the contribution be made only to AV service providers on request, but not to the remaining AV service providers, would result in a marked market inequality. Both offer the same service and compete for the same audience. It would be unfair and unfair for a contribution to be paid only by those tenderers who offer their contents on request. In addition, a smaller volume of funds foreseen in accordance would be raised in this way. The EU Directive makes no distinction between providers of AV services. We also believe that the proposed solution whereby, instead of direct payment of the annual contribution, the legal obligation could also be met in an alternative way, for example, through direct investment in European AV works production and the purchase of license rights for European AV works, is not optimal in the fact that audiovisual media services providers are both domestically and from other countries already prescribed relatively high annual quotas of European AV works – for television programmes is 50% and for services at the request of a new 30%. Such a new proposal cannot really be expected to make any significant payments to the European AV Production Fund. There is a high likelihood that foreign suppliers will easily prove that they have invested in European works anywhere in the prescribed percentage of annual traffic created only in RS and will not have to be paid in malt. This would certainly be the case for the world's largest AV providers of content such as Netflix, HBO and others, who are already investing considerable resources in the production of European AV works. However, home providers who do not, in principle, invest significant resources in the production of European AV works and perform on the Slovenian market would in fact be left with only the possibility of meeting the obligation by means of a contribution to the Fund. In this way, Slovenian tenderers would be placed in an unequal position compared to others and would further deteriorate their competitive position in the EU common market. In addition, with a view to protecting Slovenian suppliers, the law provides that “from the amount committed by the provider to contribute to the fund referred to in Article 16b of this Act, the tax shall be deducted from the profit paid for each year by the audiovisual media service provider in the Republic of Slovenia.” We would like to stress explicitly that this proposal for a law is not, as stated, some arbitrary action by the Ministry of Culture, that we are delaying the transposition of the European Directive, that no work has been done in the field of transposition under the previous government and that we have immediately initiated all the procedures for the preparation of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which is what the European Directive requires of us. We would therefore like to stress explicitly that we are absolutely committed to this Directive. All comments were taken into account in the public debate, as well as a slightly longer coordination with all legal services, so that there were no significant delays, which were the subject of the obvious. Furthermore, we would just like to emphasise the answers to the three dilemmas, namely that the definition of AV is not defined. The point is that we cannot change the definition of European AV parts because they are very clearly defined by the EU directive, which does not allow individual countries to arrange them differently or in their own way. The same applies to the determination of the content elements of audiovisual work. This is also clearly laid down by the Directive. We repeat that the definition of Slovenian audiovisual works is not the subject of this EU directive and the novel in ZavMS, but is regulated by the Media Act. The proposed harmonisation of definitions is therefore not possible because it would be contrary to the European acquis. With regard to the proposal to have more support for Slovenian audiovisual production, we reply that such favouritism of Slovenian producers and Slovenian AV works cannot be subject to the regulation of this law, as it transposes a European directive whereby all stakeholders in the common EU market are in an equal position. The incentives for Slovenian AV works and Slovenian independent producers are already set out in the Media Act, for example, a mandatory quota of 5% of Slovenian AV works in the annual broadcasting time of Slovenian TV and 25% of the quota in the case of public RTV. I would also like to give an answer regarding the creation of the Fund, as there were some observations or comments that it was not clearly defined. The first paragraph of the new Article 16b also provides that the Fund shall be established in accordance with the law governing public finances. However, the Public Finance Act sets out clearly in Article 56 who may be the holder of such a fund. The establishment of this fund is therefore fully in line with sectoral legislation, as confirmed by the Ministry of Finance in inter-departmental coordination. And further on, about AKOS. Here we might only point out that in the field of audiovisual services regulation, in particular in the area of video sharing and in the field of accessibility of services for persons with disabilities, we can say this, the role of the European Regulators' Association and the importance of the independent functioning of regulators is increasing, so that AKOS will be even more involved in international developments in terms of coordination and coordination of the regulation of stakeholders not established in the Republic of Slovenia, but in other EU countries. Following the adoption of the law, the AKOS will prepare new sub-legislative acts for the implementation of the legal novelties and will involve the public concerned through consultations and workshops aimed at implementing the legal requirements in the field of competence of the AKOS. These are the answers to the comments we've heard. We would certainly like to emphasise that we are late in the directive and, given the fact that fewer than ten amendments have been tabled, we would ask for a third reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Procedural. I'm sorry, I had another comment, you just pulled it off so fast, I'd beg if you'd let me do that again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I think we've missed one crucial moment. However, when we compare ourselves with the rest of the world and with our size, it is good to look at other cases that have not followed only the provisions of the directive so strongly and blindly, but have, of course, adapted it to their size, need, specificity and, above all, the interests of national culture. Poland, as a country that gives a lot to culture, has introduced 1.5% of the revenue of these flow platforms, including Netflix and Amazon, and estimates that this will bring €3.3 million into the budget only from Netflix and Amazon and Apple TV+, all at the expense of the Polish Film Fund’s public cultural organisation. In addition to mentioning the solution of France, which, of course, is a cultural power, which has imposed a decree of 800 million traffic made by Netflix, introduces a commitment that at least 20%, 25% or 22.5%, may pay directly to French culture, with a strictly targeted goal of film making, film production and also giving the advantage of making films, that they must be broadcast first in cinemas, and that they go to platforms. They clearly define the obligations of these giants, which, of course, until the country in which they are hosting or offering their services gives them no obligation to do so. And just what we have proposed is something that would benefit Slovenian bidders and European providers and creators. For me, it's frantic that no one has even tried to think about what it means to our creators. And I have to ask him to change his mind again. Because all the explanations we've been given do not in any way tell us that they can convince us. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, we're really closing the debate. Once again, amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 38. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF PROHIBITION OF THE PROHIBITION OF THE SALE OF PLASTIC PRODUCTS FOR ENCRATIC USE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Maša Kociper, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Dear Secretary of State, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Due to the use of plastic, we create about 60 thousand tons of waste annually in Slovenia. And the percentage of plastic products for single short-term use is about 50 %. However, we must be aware that it is estimated that we will consume as much as 85,000 litres of water and about 22 kilowatt hours of energy for the production of a kilogram of plastic. For waste produced in Slovenia due to these single use plastic products, we use as much as 550 kilowatt hours of energy and 2,000 cubic metres of water per inhabitant of Slovenia. The numbers are huge, hard to read. Thus, the four-member family could only use energy to produce single-use plastic products to heat an average of a large home throughout the year and the amount of water consumed exceeds our perception. In doing so, it is of particular concern that a very large proportion of single-use plastic products end up in rivers, lakes and seas. There it slowly breaks apart, creating microscopic small microplastics that melt in water and through water organisms and filtration into the groundwater passes into the food cycle and also into the human organism. This is, of course, recognized by the European Union, which has adopted a directive restricting the placing on the market of certain plastic products. The deadline for transposition of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order expired on 3 July. The Government has not yet adopted the necessary legislation. In the SAB party, we are aware of the seriousness of environmental problems, so instead of the Government, we have drawn up a law which introduces this directive into the Slovenian legal order and put it into the process together with 39 members and members of the opposition. Thus, nature and water are our great wealth, our heritage abandoned to us by our ancestors, and of course it is our moral obligation and duty to keep it in the same condition, in fact in a better condition, and in such a condition we leave the craftsmen. And because of this awareness, at the initiative of the SAB party, we have written down the right to drinking water in the Constitution and I will also defend it in the referendum and vote against the introduction of the new Water Act. The proposal of our law banning the sale of disposable plastic products, which is ahead of us, follows these objectives and complements our efforts so far to protect drinking water. The covid epidemic further alerted the extent to which the single-use product is used for short-term use. Above all, we have seen this in the inn in preparation and delivery of food and drink. The proposal for a law to be tabled limits the placing on the market of certain plastic single-use products and products made of oxo-degradable plastics. These include plastic cutlery, plastic plates, plastic straws, plastic bars, plastic cocktail sticks for drinks, plastic sticks for balloon attachment and balloon support, plastic containers for food from expanded polyester and finally products from oxo-degradable plastics. In doing so, it should be emphasized that these products already have affordable alternatives on the market and represent a safe substitute product. The main objective is therefore to reduce the use of a variety of single-use plastic products, which are wholly or partly made of plastic. In this way, the use of plastic in products of short-term life that are not intended for reuse would be prohibited, or effective recycling would be ensured. The latter principle follows the principle of circular economy, the development of new services and the strengthening of industries. It thus prevents the emergence of new wastes and those that cannot be recycled. Since the Directive has not yet been transposed into the Slovenian legal order, Slovenia also risks facing different procedures and penalties. Dear Members and Members, since the Government has not yet drawn up the relevant legislation and the deadline has expired, we have done this task in the opposition and therefore we ask that you support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space to Mr Robert Rožac. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Madam President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use, EPA 1947-8, adopted by 11. 6. 2021 A group of Members and Members of Parliament submitted to the National Assembly, with Ms Maša Kociper, first-signed. The reason is that the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use in Slovenia brings only Article 5 of the EU Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2019 on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products, and not other requirements of that Directive, such as the reduction of the consumption of plastic products for single use, labelling requirements, extended liability of producers of plastic products for single use, separate collection and labelling measures. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use, also because this issue is addressed by the Regulation on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products, which was publicly treated up to 18. 6. 2021 and will continue with the adoption process in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is expected to continue in July of this year. So what we've heard so far doesn't exactly hold. Otherwise, the Government will first bring into our legal order the obligations laid down in Directive 2019/904 concerning the prohibition of the placing on the market of certain plastic single-use products, the transfer of Article 5 of the Directive, and the arrangements concerning the labelling of certain plastic single-use products, the transposition of Article 7 of the Directive. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will ensure the transposition of two important provisions of the Directive into the national legal order, which will constitute as little a delay as possible in the implementation of this part of the Directive, and thus ensure uniform action in the EU internal market and reduce the risk of distortion of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, she gets the word, Mrs. Natasa Sukič. It will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Have a nice hello to you all. In September 2017, we proposed the adoption of recommendations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the placing on the market of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other plastic containers. We have proposed that the placing on the market of plastic bags with sub-legal acts be prohibited. We have proposed that Slovenia, at European Union level, actively advocate the ban on the use of plastic carrier bags and the use of environmentally friendly materials. We have also proposed to prohibit the placing on the market of food and drink in plastic glasses, on plastic plates and other plastic containers for single packaging of food and drink, including plastic utensils, as France has done before. We have also proposed a ban on the sale of all cosmetic products containing microplastics and that the Government should lay down strict rules on the handling of microplastics as a raw material for the further manufacture of plastic products, with a view to reducing the amount of microplastics in the natural environment as much as possible. The reason we put forward such a proposal for recommendations was the delaying of the then government by transposing a European directive to reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags. However, when the directive was finally transposed by the government due to the threats of the European Commission with financial sanctions, only the minimum requirements for restricting plastic were passed on from the directive. With the exception of the immediate prohibition on the placing on the market of plastic carrier bags and with the exception of the prohibition of microplastic cosmetic products, our recommendations were adopted by 85 votes to none. However, by the end of their term of office, the government, which was composed of SMC, SD and Desus at the time, has not implemented any of the points contained in those recommendations. Then we received the government of the LMŠ, SAB, SD, SMC and Desus coalition, which we also supported in Levica when it was appointed. One of the reasons for our support was the coalition contract commitment, which stated: “We will restrict the use of plastic bags, plastic glasses, plates, cutlery and other containers for the sale of pre-prepared food and drink, including plastic accessories, to the restriction of cosmetic products containing microplastics and stricter rules for handling microplastics as raw materials.” End of story. A few months after the appointment of the Government, the National Assembly adopted the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment for single use. In Levica, we have tabled an amendment to the proposal to complement the position with an added commitment to tighter market restrictions on products which are difficult to recycle and where separate collection would result in disproportionately high costs. The suspension of the sale of light carrier bags, which was foreseen for 2018, was extended by the suspension of the sale of filters for tobacco products made from disposable plastics. For plastic containers for food and pots, Slovenia is expected to draw up a plan in 2019 to ban them. However, plans to prohibit all other single-use plastic products and fishing gears provided for in the Commission proposal should be developed gradually so that they can be phased out by 2030. Our amendment was adopted, against no vote. And nothing happened again. In 2019 neither plastic bags nor any other single-use plastic products were banned. The restrictions laid down in the European Directive were imposed, and the Government only confirmed the non-binding code for the reduction of sales of carrier bags adopted by certain traders. And so after four years of effort, we are still at the same point. We recommended nothing happened to the government. We have practically rewritten the Government's position on the prohibition of plastic bags and other single-use plastic products to defend it at EU level. We have written down that in 2019 and 2020 we will ban most single-use plastics. Nothing happened. On the contrary, because of the coronation, the consumption of these products has broken all the records and has become even more acceptable. All of this should be arranged by the government under the law, but nothing happens. The only solution left is to adopt a law at the level of the National Assembly prohibiting the sale of disposable plastic products, which we are considering today. This is essential because only the state has leverage – a legal ban on stopping the further pollution of our environment, especially rivers, seas and oceans, where plastic massacres certain animal species. The country has made this possible and only the state can stop it and not the consumers. For most of our lives we leave consumers in factories, offices, and shops. We do not have time for the most basic human functions, such as food preparation, dining in the society of the people we love, value them, and share food with them. We don't even have time to wash the dishes, because any moment like this means less time than we can spend at work. As a result, we increasingly go after fast food and drink served on plastic plates, plastic glasses, and other plastic containers for distribution of industrial pre-prepared food. We eat with a plastic spoon because it is time-consuming for us in this society, so that most of our lives can then be pursued by eating with a silver spoon or even a gold spoon, even though it is increasingly clear to us that it is just a dream. We're going through plastic because we don't have a choice. Because we have a rapid pace of living in this force and because the market forces plastic at every step, which is cheap, because the costs of its use of capital are passed on to the environment and to all of us, who then have to pay for the rehabilitation of the polluted environment. In our insatiability, after increasing consumption and growth, we have contaminated every corner of our planet with plastic. Some scientists believe that the presence of plastic in the natural environment is a milestone that marks the beginning of the age of plastic, the new geological age of planet Earth. It's time to end this. All the efforts that we have made in Levi so far to force the Government to limit plastic consumption have proved unsuccessful, despite the fact that we have had the support of all parliamentary political parties. We are counting on this support today. The legal prohibition on the sale of plastic products for single use is therefore necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Michael Prevc, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the programme of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we have set ourselves as one of the priorities of environmental concern. We need to protect and preserve the environment for the younger generations and the future. Respectful treatment of our environment, fertile soil, drinking water, animal life, and variety of species is our goal. Protecting the environment, animals, species and resources is our common task that each individual must undertake. The aim of the law before us on the prohibition of plastic single-use products is to reduce the use of plastic packaging in a way that either prohibits use or provides cost-effective recycling. This would prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, particularly the aquatic environment, and consequently have a positive impact on human health. The main solutions to the law are the transposition of the Directive of the European Union of 2019 on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products to be transposed into national law by the European Union countries and the prohibition of single or short-term plastic products for which there are already affordable alternatives on the market. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we agree with the proposaler's opinion that action should be taken as soon as possible in the area of accumulation of single-use plastic products. The fact is, due to the covida-19 epidemic, the operation of catering facilities was banned, resulting in an increase in the food packaging delivered to the home. Although plastic products have helped to limit the spread of coronavirus, they have had a negative impact on the environment and have slowed down efforts to reduce plastic pollution. As we have heard today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of disposable plastic products for two reasons. The first reason is that we find it very important in New Slovenia because a solution to the transposition of the directive is already being prepared in the draft regulation on reducing the environmental impact of certain plastic products. And secondly, because the bill itself is extremely flawed. The draft law only transposes Article 5 of the Directive of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order, and not the other requirements of that Directive, such as the reduction of the consumption of plastic single-use products, labelling requirements for these products, increased liability of producers of plastic single-use products, separate collection, awareness-raising measures. Since the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order by this law would thus not be appropriate, since the Law on Environmental Protection in the second paragraph of Article 19 and in the eleventh paragraph of Article 20 already stipulates that such matter should be determined by regulation by the Government, and since this regulation is just before issue, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will not give this law any further support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The views of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Sea, research findings have shown record high concentrations of microplastic particles reaching even 3 million particles per square kilometer. This is one of the highest measured concentrations in the world. Among plastic products most commonly found in the sea, they account for 86% of all single-use plastic products. These are products that are normally discarded after short-term use. The European Parliament has tackled the environmental problem with a complete ban on single-use plastic products and has adopted a directive to reduce the environmental impact of certain plastic products. Slovenia should implement this Directive in national law by 3 July, which has not happened until today. Since the Government has not done so, we have drafted in the SAB a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use and have, together with the opposition, tabled it in the legislative procedure. In an effort to address the issue of single-use plastics at the legal level, as some European countries have done. The Directive requires Member States to prohibit the placing on the market of plastic products for single use and products of oxo-degradable plastics. It also covers the areas of separate collection and requirements for bottle design, extended producer responsibility and awareness-raising. The Government refers late to the European Commission's delay, and we point out that some countries have already transposed the directive into their legal order. Delays in the transposition of European directives into the national legal order may result in serious financial sanctions by the European Commission. Given that single-use plastic products pose a high risk to marine and aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity as well as human health, we have decided in the SAB that we should not delay the proposal for a law. Plastic waste does not only pollute the shores, it also endangers aquatic organisms. The presence of plastics and microplastics in the water has a major impact on marine organisms and also on the person who eats them. The plastic products prohibited by the Directive and carried into law are plastic accessories, plastic plates, plastic straws, plastic wafers, plastic cocktail sticks, plastic sticks for attaching to balloons and balloon support, plastic containers for food from expanded polyester and products from oxo-degradable plastics. In doing so, it should be added that these products already have appropriate affordable alternatives on the market and are a safe substitute product. As early as 2019, a number of traders started to prepare for the implementation of the directive and thus, for example, have already removed the wafers from the sales shelves with plastic parts and replaced them with a paper version. In stores, we can see for a while the gradual removal of plastic packaging replaced by cardboard packaging. In the SAB party, we welcome any adjustments that have and will have a positive impact on the environment. We are also aware that water, as the foundation for life on earth, is sometimes more valuable than gold, must be protected. In 2016, on our proposal, water entered the Constitution as a universal and fundamental right, and we will also defend water by attending the referendum on 11 July. Due to the wide range of uses, plastic is a popular material without which life today is almost unimaginable. Plastics play an important and often crucial role when it comes to use, for example, for medical purposes, but today we are talking about products that are only used once and for the most time in a few minutes by consumers because of their desire to make it easier and easier to live. Plastics therefore gives us modern life and lifestyle, which today will be very difficult for the consumer society to give up. Nevertheless, we believe that trends in Slovenia are leaning towards an ever-increasing sustainable attitude and that people are already changing their habits at an individual level with a view to protecting the environment. When all plastic carrier bags became compulsory in 2019, we accepted the changes well. However, the sale of bags, according to merchants, has decreased considerably. It is already the sixth day when measures should be taken to reduce the use of plastic products. Instead of the government in the SAB, we have drawn up a law that is the best and most effective solution to prevent plastic from entering our waters and oceans. These days, the government in the European Parliament has been able to hear evidence at the expense of unambitious environmental measures. We also like to boast that Slovenia is a green and sustainable country. Today you have the opportunity to come from words to actions and ban plastic products. There are no excuses to preserve nature and environmentally friendly measures. Clean air, water, environment and nature are our future. Let's not waste it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, it is very difficult to imagine everyday life without plastic. However, we must recognize that many products are simply unnecessary and do not have a significant impact on our lives, except perhaps comfort, but have an influential environment in which they are found, because they cannot be recycled because of their characteristics. In the Desus Group, we support changes that bring a cleaner world to our descendants. With each step, we are closer to the improved condition in which we are found. Unfortunately, consumer society has led to over-production of plastic products that serve as a poor alternative to sustainable products. The biggest irony is that, for the sake of convenience, we have replaced sustainable products with wasteful and environmentally burdensome products. If we just look at past history, we see that we have the ability and ability to change our way of life and just spending. Previous generations have placed their garbage in a so-called cemetery or cave, while today's society separates virtually every product. Let's just think a few years ago when we didn't get free plastic bags anymore. In the beginning it was created by a pogrom and then the producers simply said, "Okay, but we'll make it out of other materials." So we see that the eco-alternative exists, only consumers have to decide about it. A similar story was with straws, virtually overnight there were possibilities of buying paper, metal, wood, or even straw from pasta. Even large consumers, such as fast-food restaurants, have mostly gone into more sustainable forms. Traders will have a greater problem by changing pots or caps for drinking, especially by changing the food packaging. The sale and use of food packaging has increased significantly during the closure period due to the Coronavirus epidemic. However, food suppliers will also be able to adapt at this point, as alternatives already exist from decomposing materials. This will be expected to result in price increases in contracts, which are incomparable to the damage caused by these products today. Much has already been said about addressing the challenges of ocean pollution and, as a result, the shoreline due to plastic products. We've seen pilot project ships cleaning huge areas of so-called plastic waste islands, and we've also read about bacteria that are supposed to feed on plastic. But we can take an important step on our own. If we decide to do so, we can prevent the formation of plastic waste. The wound we've caused by irresponsible behavior so far will save decades. In the future, we need to take further steps to reduce the negative impact on the environment. However, the legislative basis is only an additional incentive to change our way of life. Reducing the consumption and use of other plastic products, which already have a more environmentally friendly alternative, is only a matter of individual decision. In the Desus Group, we will take our decision on the proposal for a law banning the sale of plastic products for single use after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Nice greetings to all present! If you look around today you can see that we literally drown in at least this plastic, which is more from day to day, instead of less. Plastics are absolutely too much at every step in the store if you already look at all these 0.5 to 2 liters of bottle of different waters with the taste of sodad, untreated drinks, alcoholic beverages and you could also list them. Unfortunately, nowadays, it is rare for someone to bring back a bottle from, for example, a working or maybe from a drill and also buy it in a bottle, because we all like to go to a coma, forget things at home, we cannot wear heavy glass and rather take the plastic under our hand and dump it there in the trash. Not to mention that separating waste when it comes to taking a walk to a certain collection of waste or organic waste, some lazy individuals are not able to do so at all and are making a great deal of effort. In neighbouring Croatia we have this beautifully arranged, they collect return bottles from dumpsters and take them to a collection place and are paid for it. What about us? In the Slovenian National Party, we ask whether you have done anything in the previous mandate to redeem these bottles. Nothing! Although I asked the previous Minister and Secretary of State on the Committee on Environment and Space at least twice whether we would go to the same system in Slovenia as they do in Croatia. The people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be motivated. Look at how many people are unemployed. If I go back to Croatia a little bit, people pick up and boast a lot of times that they earn one pension in the summer when tourists throw bottles. Of course, in Croatia as well as 90% of Slovenians collect these PVC bottles and return them to stores so they can buy fasunga or something under their teeth. Plastic is not healthy, the taste of the drink is different than if you drink from a bottle. The coffee packaging for each of us, which we get here in the National Assembly, is recycled with paper, but you burn something fast with this packaging, it can leave, so you have to take two cups. In any case, it would be better if we got a normal coffee in a plastic bag. We usually used plastic products more in summers for some picnic, birthdays in nature, where it was more practical, functional and affordable. Some more conscious people are already buying and using wooden cutlery instead of plastic, but the feeling of biting from wooden spoons or forks is quite different. This enormously durable plastic usually ends up on the ocean coasts and also causes great damage to the environment. In addition, it represents a lot of lost millions for the industry because it does not recycle. In the Slovenian National Party, we find it very important to raise the awareness of the people who start in our heads, in every individual, in society as a whole. Not only does a high fine, punishment, but large-scale campaigns on the harmful consequences of our doing contribute to changing our culture and manner of behavior. The remains of plastic are also found in marine species, including fish and shells, which means that it is also present in the human food chain, which should trigger a red alarm. We have also observed that the amendment's proposal in a similar way regulates matters that have been dealt with publicly by the government, we are talking about the proposal for a regulation to reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. Exceptions would apply to certain products for medical or industrial use. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the fact that, for non-prohibited plastic products, the draft regulation prescribes a system of producer-wide liability, which means that the latter should bear costs such as collection, transport and treatment of waste. By 2029 Member States will have to achieve the 90% objective of collecting plastic bottles. Perhaps someone thinks these goals are too ambitious, but we think they're pretty realistic. The important task is also for manufacturers of hygiene pads, tampons, wet wipes, tobacco products with filters, drinking pots that will have to take care of the proper labelling of their products. In doing so, the consumer will have to be informed of the presence of plastic in the product and, as a consequence, the negative impact of the disposal on the environment, the way waste is disposed of from these products to be avoided. The SAB party, therefore, took into account their marriage rather than leaving the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make a directive, whose time limit has otherwise expired 3. Seven. 2021, transferred to the Slovenian legal order. Plastic products for single or short-term use are intended to be replaced by alternative, affordable products which do not reveal much of the material provided. If we sum it up in the Slovenian National Party, there's still a lot of vague, inconclusive things out there in the clouds. Despite the fact that things are very cross-cutting and will have to be resolved as soon as possible in more detail, in a systematic way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Hello, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament and all present. Appropriate waste management is still essential to prevent any debris. In particular, plastic waste is subject to the general measures and objectives of the Union and the objectives of the European Plastic Strategy to ensure that all plastic packaging is reusable or easily recycled on the Union market. For some single-use products, alternative products are not yet available and are more sustainable, but consumption of these products is expected to increase and a trend needs to be changed in order to achieve an ambitious and sustainable reduction in the use of these products without compromising food hygiene or food safety and good hygiene and production practices. Once the State has determined that the obligation will be implemented with market constraints, it must ensure that such restrictions are proportionate and non-discriminatory. The country must promote the use of products that are suitable for multiple use and can be prepared for reuse and recycling. It takes sufficient time to develop a harmonised standard and allow manufacturers to adapt their part of the production chain. Economic and other incentives that support sustainable consumer decisions and promote responsible consumer behaviour can be an effective tool to achieve the objectives of Directive 2019/904 of the European Union. The aim of this Directive is to prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, in particular water, and on human health and capabilities, to promote the transition to a circular economy with innovative and sustainable business models, products and materials and thus to contribute to the effective functioning of the internal market. The objectives set out in the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Plastic Single-Use Products are proposed by the applicants, the Group of Members and Members to prohibit certain plastic products without finding satisfactory alternative products, and because the proposal for a law is extremely weak, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it is necessary to regulate the way plastic products are recycled and reused and to find comparable alternative products and more durable solutions to the manufacture of such products, which are designed to be used more than once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! As a member of the European Union and a signatory to international environmental agreements and arrangements, the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to adopt all the necessary legislative acts and strategic documents and to carry out all the necessary activities to put our way of life within the framework of universal constraints in which the planet Earth can still maintain its reconstruction capabilities. The ability to self-renovate and ensure a healthy living environment, in addition to greenhouse gases, also threatens the increasing accumulation of waste from artificial materials. Significantly, in the first decade of the 21st century, we produced more plastics than in the whole 20th century. At the same time, plastic packaging is the most common source of pollution of the world's rivers and oceans. The latter already contain almost 200 million tons of plastic waste. The proposed law, which prohibits certain plastic products, not only responds to worrying statistics, but also refers to the consequences of the epidemic of an adapted way of life. As direct purchases were disabled due to restrictive measures in the area of catering and trade activities, the amount of waste packaging generated was increased to remove shipments via mail or various courier services or to deliver and retrieve food and food. The containers or food packagings used in the delivery or takeover are one of the ten plastic products that make up as much as 75 % of all the waste found in the water. By 3 July 2021, the European Directive on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products should be implemented in our legal order. Since the Government has not done so, the opposition parties have tabled today's law, which follows the requirements of the directive. Given that today it is the first case under this law, it can be further improved in the legislative process if it proves necessary. By adopting the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia would therefore join a group of countries that have taken additional measures and would thus give a clear signal that it is a responsible member and signatory to international environmental and climate agreements. In LMŠ we are advocates of a healthy living environment and are aware of the collective responsibility that we have until the generations to come, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member and honourable Members and other Members of the Council are warmly welcomed! Nice greeting to the Secretary of State! You know that saying: Every step counts if it's in the right direction. And here it is before us, before all of us today is another step in the right direction, this is the proposal for a law banning the sale of plastic products for single use. With this law, it is clear that we do not solve the environmental and climate crisis. To remind you, this is one of those environmental and climate crises that this Parliament is simply not yet able to declare or wish to declare, unlike the Vatican, the European Parliament and many others, because of this composition at this time. However, this bill is in fact much more ambitious than the proposal for a climate resolution to be considered next week. There we will talk about the non-ambitious goals of Slovenia, which move everything that is serious in 2040 or later. This law, which is before us today, honourable Members, is a law that saves one area immediately. Of course, the Social Democrats will also be supported by the law under which we are co-signed. However, I must point out now that exactly the same thing is happening to us today as it was yesterday when we discussed the law that would allow Slovenian farmers to grow medical hemp themselves and allow Slovenian Galen laboratories to process, not to depend on imports. No, because this is an opposition law, there are one million reasons on the government's side why marriage cannot be supported. I would understand, however, if we had an alternative proposal at the same time and we do not have one, we only have a delay in transposing European directives. And when the opposition does what the government should do, it really helps you, but no, the government talks about the reasons why it doesn't accept the law. Today, however, it is only the first debate. The first consideration is the possibility of discussing whether we are going forward with the law in order to correct it. The government has a great deal, including a capable administration, that if I think a certain article needs to be corrected, extended, the amendment can also be extended and amended. Last but not least, once again, this law also refers to non-executed European guidelines. But not again, we won't support, we're against, we're preparing something better. But it's not in Parliament right now. Just like yesterday about medical cannabis. Better, systematically, what we've been listening to for ten years. But the law is still not in Parliament. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats will support this law. We also accept the criticism that an article can be written in such a way that it needs to be corrected. Unlike the Government, we do not have in the background thousands of officials who know the whole European regulation in the womb. We don't have thousands of officials who get paid just to prepare such regulations, but we have come up with a proposal that is a solution, and that's why the Social Democrats support this law and we call on you all Members and Members to give us the opportunity to go together to the second reading and what needs to be done to do together. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you, Secretary of State, honourable Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word is Masha Kociper, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Thank you to those who have at least taken the time to listen and participate in the consideration of one of the opposition laws. And maybe we should start right here because my fellow Jew is finished. Yes, it is, this law, for it has been talked about by coalition parties, does not solve the problem in its entirety, does not solve the issue of plastic products in its entirety, nor does it solve the problem of the European directive in its entirety. This Directive, first of all, refers to a number of necessary measures; it is quite difficult and so forth, but most importantly, the deadline for adoption of this Directive was 3. 7, 3. Seven. 2021. So, six days ago. Unfortunately, the government didn't do what it was supposed to do again. However, this is an extremely problematic matter and at least part of the problem has been addressed by the opposition. In the SAB, we have prepared one solution that, in our opinion, solves what is most problematic. This is also the increased use of plastic products in epidemics, plastic products, which then end in nature and highly pollute the environment. Anyone who has been in the last months of the epidemic – and I believe that we all - went on trips to nature, walked around the city, and so on, could see that the quantity of these plastic products has increased tremendously. That's crazy. We all know why, we all know that they were like that out there, so people could have taken food, taken it out of a restaurant or inn, used it somewhere in nature. Even because we're people, because we're people, it's ended many times where it shouldn't. And we all know that once such plastic comes into nature, it takes centuries for it to fall apart, if at all. And that's why our marriage is partly, but it refers to the most important part of this arrangement, which the Government says it is preparing, and prohibits traffic in some of the most important plastic products. I will read them again: accessories – forks, knives, spoons, plastic plates, straws, cocktail sticks for drink, balloon sticks and balloon support, most importantly – containers for food from expanded polystyrene, containers for drink from expanded polystyrene, including their devices and caps, cups for drink from expanded polystyrene. The most crucial things that burden our nature the most. And even if the Government is preparing a comprehensive solution – and thank God that it is also its duty – to protect our nature as soon as possible, if we have any hearing for nature, as you say you have it, we can accept this solution, which could be implemented sooner and then, when you have a comprehensive solution prepared, of course, you can repeal this part and adopt a law that will cover it completely. This saying that we can't solve anything, because anyway, the law is being drawn up in the government, it's really out of the question. Under our rules of procedure and the Constitution, the opposition is entitled to lodge laws. And I always say, of course, complex laws, such the most systematic must be prepared by the government. But the point of the opposition's action is to partially, with faster solutions, try to solve some acute problems. And these are acute problems. The European Commission has already decided in its strategy for plastics in January 2018, entitled the European Round Economy Plastic Strategy, to address the issue of persistent growth in plastic waste generation and disposal of plastic waste into the environment, in particular marine waste, in order to establish a circular life cycle for plastic. I don't know how many documentaries you watch, I like to watch them, I encourage kids to watch them together, I'm a death terror when they show these videos of plastics at sea. Not only do they die, I don't know, but young dolphins don't know what all those who get involved in plastic use or choke on some plastic product do they say before they get into their digestion. I am also appalled when I see in these documentary shows all these explanations of how plastic, when it breaks down, has a harmful effect on the development of individual species in the sea, how it affects fertility, is said to be the ability to reproduce individual living organisms. And we know when we destroy this marine habitat, everything else is connected. So it's not just that it's bad to see plastic lying by the road and in the cities and so on and so on and we have to reduce it, it's also about what's going on with this plastic later. Even if she doesn't lie down on the road anymore, but if she gets properly dumped in the trash, the problem remains. And we can only talk about this problem by preventing the sale of plastic products as soon as possible. And that is what this law aims at – banning the sale of plastic products for single use. The law, of course, has a certain period that is necessary for it to enter into force. And, of course, this law will, very quickly, in the only effective way, prepare food providers and other products offered in plastic to act differently. It means to use some decomposing materials or cardboard packaging and so on. All those who are skeptical, what such three articles can do, remember the tobacco law. We all watch all these old co-workers together when they were smoking. People went to bed and they lit another one in bed. Do you remember? Or at the New Ljubljana Bank, they smoked at the employee's window. These were times not so many years ago, in the history of mankind is 20, 30 years short. Now almost no one smokes in public spaces anymore, even smoking has been completely reduced. And these are the changes that law can make. And if you were concerned about our nature, as we are concerned about the client of the SAB, this solution would be supported. I don't know why it's a problem if the whole directive isn't covered in this law. You take her into your marriage! Here we can gain five, six months when this is banned only by adopting these two articles. As I mentioned, the directive is broader. In addition to limiting the marketing ban, it provides for a separate collection and a requirement for the design of bottles. We didn't do it. We do not have the expertise to go here precisely to determine the separate collection and the design of the bottles. We don't have any experts in this field. The next thing the directive provides is the extended responsibility of the manufacturer – challenging legal issues to be addressed by the Government with its experts. That's not what we were up to. Awareness. Awareness is a matter of the state, including some resources and so on. We didn't go into this. We have gone to what is most acute – restrictions, prohibitions on placing on the market. If this law were to confirm to me today that it could go to the next stage of the legislative procedure, there are two options. One is that the Government corrects and adds what it thinks should be added; therefore, on purpose, we went to a new law so that it could be broadly supplemented. And the second option is to say, okay, let's at least let this partial solution go through, and correct this part if you think that something needs to be fixed; there's something we've been saying wrong, it's in the government's opinion and so on. Let's fix this, let's accept it, and then you - I don't know, in six months or when you say you'll have your marriage ready - do what you have to do, and in that law, in the transitional provisions because of me, cancel what you think needs to be repealed, so that it's completely and in one law it's all covered together. I would just like to say that I am thinking a lot about what we are doing with nature, what we are doing with our environment, and that I am increasingly convinced that compromises at some point will simply not be possible anymore. Politics is, I always say, the art of possible. And we're always looking for some solutions, we're going to close the mine, but we're going to shut it down so slowly, for ten years, that there's going to be as little damage as possible, and so on. Of course, this is all right, this difficulty of policy, that it is as much a damage as possible, and of some decisions it is a benefit as much as possible. But I'm afraid in nature and in environmental protection, we're going to have to say the end at some point. If we miss the cut date, we will not achieve these goals, which experts say that if we do not reach them, there will be no going back. We're gonna be late, and we're not gonna be able to cure this planet anymore. It seems to me that every month really counts. If we are hunting for environmental goals to achieve some environmental objectives in 2030 and then in 2050 – this is also on the agenda of our Presidency of the European Union to work towards achieving the European Green Agreement and achieving certain environmental objectives – then when limiting plastic products that cannot be recycled in an appropriate way, every month counts. And that's it. We had a very similar opposition law some time ago in the National Assembly. It was a law on children with special needs, I think it was first signed by the LMŠ, we also supported it by other opposition parties. At first, we listened for an hour and a half to parents who explained how this law was needed, how this particular solution of this assistant was necessary, how they needed it, why it was necessary, why the child should have the opportunity to have a companion, and so on. Then we had a brief discussion where the coalition said several times that they were not preparing their solution, which would be at the end of the year in the National Assembly. And of course, the coalition voting machine voted against the law changing. And I think those of you who were here can confirm that people were crying. Some of those who were present cried. I will not cry unless you realize that this law is suitable for another treatment, including seals and whales and fishes will not cry, but we can all know in our hearts that every moment that we do not use to protect our nature and environment is delayed and that it is a shame that even on such things, because we all know that we need to do so, we have this battle coalition-opposition and we do not support quickly, we solve what to do, and then we save the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Let's get Gobbler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If we thought about it decades ago and used largely only a returnable packaging, it is something else today. Back then, decades ago, it was actually perfectly normal for us to go with a bottle of milk to the store, change it, it's not like that anymore. This is why it appears on the packaging market, which is burdening our environment. I'm really worried about that. Why? Especially since this undegradable packaging lies everywhere in our forests, and so, as the colleague told me before me, saddens the fact that when you see what is happening in nature, in the environment when you walk, when you lie cans on the ground in a natural environment, it will never collapse. Further indegradable bags, gloves, and we could list them. In fact, we have an action once a year when somehow civil society and all of us together are aware of it on Earth Day and we are going to collect all of this waste packaging that is collected in our environment. They gather together and buy the bags, but this is picked up, and then the pollution begins again, and this is once again a vicious circle. And if it was somehow some years ago that we expected to get rid of these packages somehow or replace them again with repackaging, it escalated even more at the time of the coronary crisis. These packages were huge everywhere, as catering providers were putting food into this non-refundable package that we have taken over and bought waste at home. In the bloc's settlements, these yellow bags were throwing up. Of course, those who make sure that they took it away were trying to do so, but it also drives off to a specific dump, and that is where it doesn’t break down. So I think it's extremely important that we take one step forward. And this law, of which we are cosigners, is one step in the right direction. Why? I'll touch that, too. The government's opinion says we're late for the directive. We are already used to this, but this week we listen to such statements by government representatives. It happens that the Government usually brings the transposition of directives absolutely too late, when we are already under threat of punishment. After we are so far away that we are already at risk of punishment, we are simply not as careful as we Members, because we are aware that we are being threatened with punishment, and in fact there is nothing else you can do to confirm the transposition of the directive into legislation, and mistakes are taking place. And the key law that we adopted this week was the Law on Audition, which had to be corrected because a mistake had been made at the time of the hurry. That's why we should, in fact, if we have here to transpose Directive 3. Seven. 2021, having a marriage already on the table or almost adopted, and these are not excuses. We're gonna have to work in the ministries. Why am I talking about this? As at the end of 2018/2019, I brought a petition to the Ministry with a fellow Member from the right side of the petition prepared by a civil initiative in Slovenska Bistrica. On Earth Day, they gathered and presented to the general public what was happening to the environment. They have an extremely beautiful natural environment, as we all have in Slovenia, and they have picked up all the waste packaging that has accumulated and dismantled it in the Slovenian Bistrica. That's when I have to say that people saw what was going on. It was an extremely important interest to sign this petition to adopt legislation prohibiting the use of non-degradable packaging and then the Minister of State and then the Secretary of State have ensured that the legislation is being prepared. It's been a year and a half. I believe that the government has changed, that the government is second, but officials are still the same, at least I think most of those involved are the same. I wonder why this legislation doesn't go forward. Although there is one step, how much longer are we in the National Assembly? I think good or bad a year ago using plastic glasses to drink water, today we already have paper glasses for water. Why? Because they're decomposing, it can be used. Let's step forward, let's do something for our nature. It's extremely important that we save her. For all these things remain somewhere, in nature, in the environment. What else is going on, and what is the most disturbing concern? I know the environment. They bring it to a landfill, a black landfill, as he's told, and then all of this waste packaging comes in, because recycling, such as it is, does not exist, it piles up, then a layer of soil comes in again, and a layer of soil is written down. We've got compartments and compartments. We could show you pictures. This is happening in the environment where I come from. I'm really sorry. Plus, I wonder where the competent institutions, which would actually detect or detect these black landfills, will not be able to do so for a long time, because then we have essentially a polluted, natural source of water, what we drink. But I'm specifically talking about Ruša, if anyone might be interested. The Secretary of State won't listen to me, but let's leave. That's why I also wanted to talk about this subject somehow, because this is an extremely important exception to me. Indeed, if it was then promised that the legislation banning the use of plastic would be ready, I do not know where it wants to go, I simply do not know. However, given that we still have a directive from behind, which was also adopted in 2019, it is true that we would expect to be one step further. Not through speaking by government representatives in the government's opinions, how this can't be done, how it can't be done. Really, marriage is a new marriage, it can have problems, it might have to be changed, it's not a problem at all. The law goes into further consideration, certain content is corrected if necessary, and if you consider it necessary to upgrade it, it is accepted, then changes to this law are made, that is all. But one step further we've done, we've done something for our beautiful environment. For we must be aware that we are not only living today, we have craftsmen from behind who want nature purely and who can live a normal life. Finally, it would be true to protect this environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for your words. You mentioned earlier what is the essence and problem of this microplastic that comes from these bags or products. I'm just going to count a few things that are very important, and I think it's right to say it on the air and people know it. Greenpeace estimates that millions of seabirds and 100,000 marine mammals die each year as a result of plastics floating around the world’s seas, such as whales, dolphins, seals and other animals, as well as sea lions and, above all, turtles. And as before, I think that the debate has repeatedly mentioned what is most awful, that animals actually replace these bags or those already broken pieces of food bags. And when we are constantly dealing with these issues, when it comes to environmental protection, or when it comes to biodiversity or biodiversity conservation, which is safe to preserve living creatures in the seas and on land, we should not only be very careful at these points, but also very professional, in particular, we should respect and encourage them to help and to also write laws or to present these findings, which I have given you and implement them into such or other legislation. Every attempt to save or protect nature or biodiversity not only is a commendable act but is, in fact, a noble act. What is actually happening in Slovenian politics is that this nobility of acts has somehow been dissolved and lost for good. And I repeat, it is right when it comes to protecting nature, when it comes to protecting or preventing these products from being used [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Sorry, time's up. Vojko Starović has the word. [[He's not here.]] Next up is Edward Paulic, to prepare Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Today the government and the coalition are again looking for reasons, how and why, instead of looking for reasons, how. Despite the fact that virtually everyone in this Chamber agrees that something needs to be done in the field of environmental protection, nature protection, that the act of plastic products for single use on the market needs to be banned. In fact, more than one million tonnes of plastic are produced every day in the world, of which a million tonnes are recycled at a low rate of 13%, and all the remaining waste packaging ends in nature. Thus, more than 150 million tons of plastic are currently found in the oceans, and this number increases by up to 12 million tons annually. And if this trend continued, there would be more plastic in the oceans than fish by 2050, according to some estimates. These wastes also cause economic loss to sectors dependent on the sea, and I am talking mainly on the tourism and fisheries sector. It is estimated that this damage amounts to up to €700 million at the annual level. In the waste hierarchy itself, we know five phases, and I'll count them as important. Waste prevention, reuse, recycling and composting, waste energy and disposal. In 2019 the European Parliament adopted a directive, the deadline for transposition of the directive, as we have heard today, has already expired. This Directive imposes, inter alia, a prohibition on the placing on the market of certain single-use products, but I am talking about wafers, plastic cutlery, plastic straws, mixed drinks sticks, balloon fastening sticks, plastic food and drink containers. This Directive therefore refers to the most important and desirable measure in this waste management hierarchy, namely waste prevention. With the entry into the European Union, Slovenia has also committed itself to respect European legislation, the European acquis, which means that certain legal solutions adopted at the level of the European Union must be transposed into sectoral legislation. We heard that the deadline for transposition of the directive expired on 3 July this year. Since the Government did not provide conditions for the transposition of the directive within the time limit, we decided in the opposition parties to submit a law which refers to the key content of the directive. I might now refer to the Secretary of State's presentation when he said it was only part of the directive that he was passing on to this law. He spoke about the transposition of Article 5 of the Directive, not the complete transposition of the Directive, but at the same time he told everyone, we could also see in the Government's opinion that the Government would not also transpose the whole directive, but – if I had just written – Articles 5 and 7. And then I wonder why we shouldn't try, upgrade this law today, maybe add another Article 7 of this directive, and adopt it as soon as possible, and at least align some of our legislation with European legislation. At the same time, it was also mentioned that the Government is preparing a regulation to transpose one part of this European directive. At this point, I will point out that this is not in line with the rules of the European Union. In view of the act transposing the Directive or the regulation, the national legislator must adopt it. I am of course saying that it must be adopted by the National Assembly, which must amend national legislation in accordance with the objectives of the Directive. In this case, as the Government foresees, the National Assembly will virtually not be included in the transposition of the directive, there will be no possibility for Members to propose an amendment so that we may improve the bill, in short, that is not okay in my opinion. The ban on the act of plastic products for single use on the market, which is the subject of today's law, is certainly an important step towards maintaining a healthy living environment, which I believe we are all taking. I will certainly support the bill today. There is always a possibility that the law will improve in the further legislative process, upgrade, and here goes my appeal to the Government and the coalition to do so. But in this place, I'd like to take this opportunity to praise the action of Adio the bottle. It is a project of many Slovenian companies, Rotary Slovenia and also a number of individuals. The purpose of this action is to leave plastic products for single use and no longer use bottles when drinking water. In short, my appeal to people to join such a beneficial action to the greatest extent possible. That's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, I agree with many of the words spoken here today. I'm also a non-governance hunter, a hunter who devotes a lot of time to ecology. Hunters join us in annual cleaning operations, where indeed many of these plastic and other wastes are collected through forests and meadows. I also agree with the Secretary of State, who said that the Government already has a solution to the transposition of the directive. It was also obvious that we were late. Yes, we are late for a good week with this transposition of the directive, as many other countries are also missing from the transposition of the directive. This is because the European Commission has not yet issued all the guidelines and implementing acts so that this transposition of the Directive can be implemented. That is why I call on everyone when this new solution is on the table, and I think we can confirm it most of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Somehow in Slovenia we have already internalized the slogan: Europe now! And this slogan, Europe now!, means that we will internalise all the values of the European Union and also all the rules that are emerging in this spirit and in this sense. And if we look at the matter a little bit wider, we see that plastic, especially for single short-term use, and its products, that are usually very often used and the damage, the environmental and economic resulting from this, is, of course, enormous. I said in the introduction that in Slovenia we produce 60,000 tonnes of plastic waste annually. Most of these are caused by these products for short-term single use. This was also recognised by the European Union, so it adopted a directive that we should have implemented by 3 July. It should be adopted with all transitional provisions. This has not yet happened, and the government says that otherwise it has something ready and that this will be accepted, but in fact the matter should be established by 3. Seven. And I find it difficult to accept that again someone else, especially in Europe, is to blame for these problems because someone else is supposed to be late. I would like to point out in this light that certain countries have put this Directive into their legal order in due time. And if I go back to plastic again, these quantities are actually huge and the covida epidemic has somehow further underlined or shown the true potential extent, in what way this plastic can still be used further, uncontrolled and hugely found in nature, in our watercourses. And clean it up and watch it, it's obviously very complicated and difficult. And if we just look at how much energy and raw materials are consumed per inhabitant in Slovenia for these products, for these products for short-term single use, we see that the quantities are huge. A four-member family could, if these plastic products were not used, warm up their home for a year. And that, of course, gives us the impression that we must act now. If we know that plastic, especially for single short-term use, is so irresponsiblely used, and despite the fact that there is a awareness in society of its harmfulness, then in fact I believe that we must act as soon as possible and transpose this directive into our legal order. In the opposition, we recognized this on the initiative of our party, the SAB, and we have prepared an appropriate legal basis. The Government has identified it, made some minor substantive comments, some have also been of a nomotechnic nature. We understand these comments as well-intentioned and, of course, will also take them into account. Actually, we don't understand why you're looking for a needle in a haystack. We stress that the title of the law has the name of the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use and it is already clear from the title of the law which part of the directive is being transposed into our legal order. We are bringing into our legal order the part of the directive we are late for. We have prepared a new law, which can be supplemented further. We do not, of course, object to this, but we do not believe that we simply need to address and resolve these matters, which are related to the preservation of a healthy environment and clean drinking water. We know that when plastic is found in the watercourses, it begins to melt, it starts to extract microplastics from plastic, which pass through the water organisms into the food cycle, even into humans, and that it comes not only through animals, but also by filtration into the groundwater. This is very alarming for me. On our initiative, at the initiative of the SAB party, we have written down the right to clean drinking water in the Constitution. Of course, this concern that we now express through this law is one of the logical and systematic continuations of our policy, in which clean drinking water and a healthy living environment play a vital role. It was just a coincidence that all of our activities coincided with a campaign, a referendum campaign against the implementation of this Law on Waters that enables the construction of coastal lands, and in fact it continues our efforts to defend water. With this proposal, we defend water. I can't imagine I'm just saying, we've got something ready, and we'll probably take it by then. Even if we look at essentially one legal remedy at the regulatory level, it means that the Ministry or the Government can change this legal matter by its own motion, i.e. through Parliament. It is important for us that environmental protection also has legal protection at one appropriate level and that this is simply protected. The Government may amend the regulation by a single decision and this regulation, which you are referring to as being prepared, could then be adopted or adopted by the Government by a decision yesterday and today if it is all right. I don't know if it's okay or okay, but the government, if you're saying that the regulation is ready, you could have adopted it yesterday and this meeting today would be completely meaningless. I guess it's not like you say. I simply do not understand that we do not want to recognize one of our good will and our concerns and also our steps to help Slovenia not pay European penalties, because it does not implement European rules in due time, but to seek a reason why the law should not be confirmed. Once again, today is the sixth day that the directive should be fully transposed into the Slovenian legal order with all the legal details. I simply do not understand your words if you are prepared that the Government is simply not at the meeting of this regulation, which you say it has prepared, confirmed and adopted. She didn't even introduce her. I could present it on the committee, on the working body or today, even at today's meeting of the National Assembly, we could say something about this regulation, and obviously we have no interlocutor. And it seems to me that this is a very important environmental topic, from which you somehow escape and do not take advantage of the opportunity to present it to the general public. We now have your word that something is ready, but neither does it want to be presented in the National Assembly nor has the Government accepted it to become valid. And if, in the light of this, we look even more broadly at the fact that the Government is already predicting a new covida epidemic, that is, a new strain and re-closure of activities or restricting the operation of activities in the autumn, then I do not understand and cannot accept them. The issues that we are addressing are not only ecological, but also economic and have economic consequences. So from the very beginning we found that the Slovenian sea is after a fraction of microplastics in the very peak of pollution. We can assume that our watercourses are contaminated as well. We have also shown how much energy is used to produce such products and also how much drinking water is consumed. If we look at this in one broader context, including the droughts and heats we are witnessing to these days, I don't really understand why he doesn't want to act. Let me do it again. We have drafted the law because Slovenia is late for the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and because it has not been prepared and enforced by the Government. We believe that the law is good, the government has made certain substantive and nomotechnical comments, which can also be completed and corrected in the next phase, and the deadline is finally expired or the deadline is expired. There is a new epidemic, a new strain, a new closure, that is, the government is threatening new closures in autumn, and in fact I do not understand this behaviour, especially in the light of the fact that everything is ready to be presented to us by this regulation, which the Government has prepared. And why doesn't he even want us? I mean, the question is logical. But why didn't she accept it? And many questions are raised on the basis of the government's views. Once again, we point to very large ecological, economic and environmental damage. In particular, we stress that plastic is not only harmful to human organisms, so it changes them, but it is harmful to nature to break up for a long time. In this light, we regret, in fact, that the government and the government coalition have such an attitude. We add, however, that we will continue to fight for clean drinking water, that on this date, when we deal with this legislation, which coincides with the referendum activities that we want to maintain pure drinking water and its access to it, we call on all Members to recognize the usefulness of this law and, of course, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? [[Yeah.]] I take it it's an interest. If they also wish to discuss the representative of the Magi proposer. Andrej Reich and the government representative, please log in by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. We've got three applications. Everyone has five minutes. First up is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I would have responded once again because I had never heard the opinion of anyone from the coalition and the Secretary of State before in the debate. I am deeply saddened by the fact that such a well-intentioned law is rejected by the coalition by the wave of its hand. At the end of the day, the Secretary of State was unable to explain again why the Government does not support this law. He said because the Member of Parliament said everything, but the Member said five words. So I can't believe you're so ignorant of what's happening to our nature. Slovenia currently holds the presidency of the European Union. Even by adopting such a law at least partially, this directive could be implemented in this way, we could boast at the time of the Presidency. We have important environmental objectives in the Presidency. The Presidency should also respect the priorities of the European Union, which respects this Green Agreement and all the specific objectives associated with it. No, you with a swing of your hand, not without even being justified, why and so forth, just for the reason that another legislation is being prepared anyway. Then what if we were preparing, if we had solved one part here, copied that part of the directive, copied it, and if we had missed something in these three articles, we could have corrected them in another reading and we could have realized at least one part of it. 80 % of the plastic waste occurring in nature is the proportion of the food and drink packaging, analyses and statistics show. Eighty percent! These are exactly the things we are talking about today — plastic packaging that cannot be recycled and is for single use. Among them are many of them, it says here in this analysis that I have before me, that they end up in nature and break up for years and years, but in the sea I have already told them how long it takes. 80% of the waste in the oceans is plastic. Again, we are talking exactly about this packaging, which we want today to ensure a ban on placing on the market. Here I have some pictures of different beaches and seas, two of them I'll show you. [[shows photo]] — because I don’t know if the camera can get that close — there are these beaches that we can watch in a variety of shows that are full of plastics. The beaches are no longer visible, pebbles, rocks, whatever is below, because everything is covered with plastic, mostly with a bottle packaging or a package for single use for food. Then we have [[shows photo]] broadcasts, videos, pictures on the Internet – floating plastics in the sea. Again, the largest percentage of exactly what we want to prevent today. This research, which I am talking about, also concluded that the largest proportion of waste is made up of consumer items, in particular food containers and cutlery, plastic and glass bottles and cans, plastic bags. Exactly what this law says. The highest concentration of pollution was found on the coasts and seabed near the shores. Of these, the largest part of those which cannot be recycled even if they were dealt with prematurely. So we're not talking about better collecting waste to recycle it, we're talking about this disposable plastic. And Slovenia is orange in the effectiveness of the fight against plastic. Here I have this article talking about the fact that, on 3 July, the ban on products contained in the Directive on the reduction of the effects of certain plastic products has entered into force throughout the European Union. This article explains that Slovenia was very poorly cut off in this analysis. And already the adoption of this law could lead us to be significantly higher in such research. But no, we're in an orange light, we're not adopting a directive in the right case, and we don't want any significant share to be taken to save at least one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Whoever uses reason doesn't mystify the world and what's in it. We just don't agree that the world is okay because we don't see the waste we produce every day and the garbage that goes away and accumulates somewhere far away from our eyes. But the problem is that these garbage and waste don't disappear, but it's still here somewhere, even though it's been processed. It's very difficult with this plastic in the oceans, well, I live by the sea and there it may be even more stressed, this constant growth of microparticles of plastic is terrifying and actually destroying the sea. If we could actually enjoy it until a few years ago, you put on a mask, you saw fish, you saw life, now it's getting smaller. What more do we need today than to reduce the production of these wastes of harmful substances and waste? And the mission of the opposition is to draw attention to these matters. I think that we have made one real move with this law, and I would like to join my colleague's opinion, in fact, with a kind of ignorant attitude towards it just because the proposal came from the opposition. The solution to this problem has already been offered by Immanuel Kant, although this sounds very unusual. The great German philosopher knew that without the use of the mind, which our Dr. Trček likes to use, citizens and citizens slip very quickly into a situation that is just the opposite of the enlightened one. This condition was called underage. And we're really acting like we're underage. Fortunately, we have a Europe here that warns us, that works, which has made one bold plan – a carbon-free Europe in 2050 – also based on garbage, and a declaration. We don't, we don't, we don't, and we're going as kids. [[…]] But to understand what our friend Dr. Duck doesn't explain or explain, I didn't hear it, but I'd like to repeat what public use of the mind means. This does not mean that we are exchanging some opinions, what we are doing here now, exchanging some views and then supporting them. Such exchange means private, private use of the mind. It can run in public, on TV, on the radio, but it's still private. This private, which I am talking about, means that people have their opinions to which they have the right, no doubt, as we have always stressed today, are spreading around and looking for fellow thinkers. Such activities actually occupy public space and occupy and limit the free use of the mind. The public use of the mind is something else in Kant. It means thinking in the strict sense of the word. The use of reason or reason is not at all something that a person can possess personally. It's not property and it's got to be out there, through Kant, every property, beyond every opinion and beyond every attempt to force people to think together. He was well aware that state institutions, political organisations, religious corporations and other companies are exploiting public space for their interests, although they are generally called upon to benefit. And we're doing this now, instead of actually using reason and solving this problem and dealing with it, we're acting under the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. And as the last one, he's got the word "magic." Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My two speakers have already said a lot, and I'll be brief. In the SAB, we drafted the law and, together with the opposition, put it into the legislative process, because the Government has not done its work, has not presented any matters that it has prepared, nor has it itself, despite the claim that it has prepared them, accepted them at the meeting in order to become valid. Our priority is healthy clean drinking water, and also on our initiative, the right to drinking clean water has been enshrined in the Constitution, and in order to follow these efforts through clean drinking water, we have also drawn up a law that reduces the use of certain plastic products for single short-term use, as they pass into watercourses, through them into animals and also into groundwater. And it was just a coincidence that all of these activities coincided with referendum activities to maintain healthy and clean drinking water and access to coastal land. I can only say clearly and loudly that we will continue to defend water and the environment in the SAB because the environment, the healthy environment, is very important for the SAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 24th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 2.05 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.34 p.m. and resumed at 14.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will carry out the voting in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 7, 32, 8, 11, 13, 20, 37, 27, 29 and 38 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs within the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the production and transport of illicit drugs is not suitable for further consideration. Comrade Reich, explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Nice hello to you all! In the SAB party, we supported this bill with our colleagues because we want to address the problems facing the most difficult patients, i.e. patients with cancer facing epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease and other diseases. All these patients today are forced to buy certain things on the black market and thus in some way endanger their health, while at the most difficult times of their lives to humiliate themselves to the level of the offender and the criminal. We have introduced a law regulating the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes. The only goal is to allow the most difficult patients access to quality and controlled medicines. Now these patients and their relatives are, as has already been said, forced to help themselves, many times to the detriment of their health. We are not talking about the legalization of hemp, but about one very narrow area. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Law, as promised, has not prepared within the time limit and that the debate itself has somehow withdrawn from this promise, I call on all of you to allow further consideration to this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	I fully agree with the arguments of the SAB representative, but unfortunately the law is, I will say, more superficially prepared, contrary to the Convention. But I am very grateful to you, colleagues, that you have opened this subject and this debate, which has been waiting too long for its realization. The Ministry of Health has been ignoring the conclusions of the Health Committee for many years. And just what the SAB requires in its proposal for a law, we have already ordered them to regulate it by means of sub-laws. Nothing happened. In the meantime, governments are changing, ministers are leaving, officials are constantly stopping any process in this direction. And the position of the representative of the Ministry appalled me, so to speak, for it was obsolete. Most European countries already have regulated hemp for medical purposes and are treating their patients legally with it. Our patients, the cancers, and everyone else, must enter the black market and be stigmatized. That's actually unacceptable. Not only health and moral damage, but also huge economic damage. Let me just remind you that hemp has been a human companion since the memorial, you will find everything in sarcophagus, from fabric to some inks and bottles. Just because the pharmacy decided to have monopolies over human health isn't good for people. Human health has become a business, unfortunately. And we've talked about this a lot these days. That's not good at all. Human health is the right thing to do. We will absolutely not oppose this bill, as it is said, but it is very welcome that we have spoken again on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In her own name, colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote today in favour of the fact that the law is suitable for main consideration, it is against the proposed decision. But there's something I'd like to say. There are quite a few laws in this session prepared by the opposition. Each of us, and this is also the purpose of the opposition's law-making process, and the principles of the important issues that we think should be settled have not yet been settled. In a specific case, as with the Hemp Act, if I call this law for a short name, and the law banning plastic products, we have proposed a law following a regular procedure, a general treatment and, by this legislative procedure, given the opportunity to correct superficialities, as the colleague said, or inconsistencies in the follow-up to the procedure. So all the excuses are basically superfluous here. It is both the opposition and the coalition that we support in principle the solution offered by the law. If so, then we can fix the marriage further. We're all aware, these are short laws, for a few articles. If we are, in principle, against or if, from the prestigious battle between the coalition and the opposition, we cannot support a single proposal from the opposition, then we are in favour of the failure of the law. I will vote in favour and I ask that all those who think this area should be regulated to vote in favour of the law continuing its legislative path.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is suitable for further consideration. Comrade Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members, explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenian health care is in crisis. I'm not talking about the covida-19 epidemic, I'm talking about a state that ruled before the Coronavirus captured the Republic of Slovenia. 5.9% of GDP in public funds is allocated to the health system in this country. If we want to compare ourselves with the developed countries of the European Union, this number should reach 7.2 per cent of GDP. Translated into absolute numbers – investments in Slovenian health care are too short for 500, possibly 600 million euros each year because the health of citizens and citizens has not been a political priority for three decades. The crisis in Slovenian health care has therefore occurred on the one hand because of chronic funding and neglect and, on the other hand, the public health system, as we have inherited from the former country, has been pervading various forms of corruption, including legalised corruption, for 30 years. I'm talking about doctors of amphibians, supplementary health insurance, overpayments in purchases and the like. In Levika, we want to turn the situation around and put citizens' and citizens' health first, so we propose that the so-called budget guard be introduced in the same way as the pension fund. Our medical checkbook as a payer of material and services depends on the contributions paid. However, the extent of these contributions paid depends on the situation on the capitalism cycle. When capitalism is booming, there are a lot of jobs, wages are better, contributions are high. But when a crisis occurs, when people lose their jobs under the greatest psychosocial pressures, just when the economy shrinks, as well as the amount of money in the health system declines, the extent of surgery decreases, the health care is worse. That's absolutely unacceptable. If we treat the health of citizens and citizens as a human right, but not as something conditional or, God forbid, as a business, we must ensure it, no matter how the economy turns. Neither does anyone tell pensioners that their pensions will be paid or not, depending on economic growth. The public health system must also be protected with the same logic. If there are still spare capacities and free personnel in hospitals, or if additional funding is needed for interventions that could be carried out, the State should step in to move the budgetary euro, why we are finally paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on Pensions for Work and Exceptional Achievements in the Field of Sport in the framework of the short procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the context of the reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted to the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure's Rules of Procedure and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two thirds of the Members present must vote in order to adopt amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 8. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cross-border Service Implementation in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present for 56, against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 7 July 2021. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 3 below number one. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new Article 55a. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3(2). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 4 and 24. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. Comrade Nick Prebil, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have tabled an amendment to Article 3 to the LMŠ with the aim of improving safety and better control when we adopt or allow the use of silencers under this new law. In fact, the current proposal, the proposal proposed by the coalition, allows the sale, possession and use of silencers without special permission, means that anyone can buy it at any time, lend it, sell it, which we do not think is appropriate. Thus, the proposed amendment provides that someone who already has a weapon or an arms document must simply go to an appropriate seller, who also sells such a silencer, and that is the only way that this silencer can buy, that is to say, by submitting a valid arms document. We are of the opinion that such supervision is good, that such security is necessary. This is also agreed by some organisations that participated in the public presentation of opinions and, above all, it is understandable that the police also support this, which, of course, she has also pointed out during the hearing itself. I would also like to point out that this article does not in any way increase red tape, i.e. only a valid arms document will the buyer have to submit to the seller when he buys a silencer or a tranquilizer from the seller. However, he will be able to buy it, as it is said, only for the weapons he possesses or has the weapons charter in force. It does not seem normal to us that people can buy stranglers as freely as they like, even for weapons that they do not possess at all. Then there's the question of who this silencer's buying for, maybe someone who owns a weapon illegally, so he got it on the black market. Such arrangements are already known in Europe, as we suggest, in Estonia, Germany, Denmark and many other countries. However, the amendment is substantively linked to Articles 4 and 24, so that all of these three amendments must be adopted in order for the amendment to be properly incorporated into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 44. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3 under Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 4 and 24 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 47. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 13 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under number 2. Comrade Nick Prebil, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President, again. The amendment to Article 13 discusses the legitimate reasons for issuing an arms document for sport. This is an extremely important article for Slovenian shooting sport, which, of course, was further complicated or further allowed by the coalition at its previous meeting to use the weapons that are now being introduced under the prohibited weapon after a new recategorisation to certain persons who are no longer eligible for it. So we are essentially proposing an identical arrangement, as proposed by the amendment, that an individual submits evidence that he is a member of a shooting organisation that is a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia or the Association of Sports Unions or other internationally recognised sports associations or shooting organisations, without allowing organisations that have the status of a non-governmental organisation and operate in the field of defence. In fact, such an organization does not then fall under this part where it has a legitimate reason for sport. And second, of course, there are questions about why we are introducing this now, why we are introducing this to specific organizations that we know are close to, and there is also fear that some of the organizations we are fighting today, such as guards, might be able to possess such weapons, through some lines and through some friendships. We oppose this, so we want the phrase “status of a non-governmental organisation operating in the field of defence” to be deleted from Article 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 47. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment The Left Party to Article 13 under Article 2. Colleague Natasa Sukič, explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. We also propose that this controversial and very dangerous Article 13 be deleted. In fact, it is one of the most controversial amendments adopted by the Committee, in order to enable individuals who have the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest in the field of defence to receive from the most strictly regulated A categories from the new weapons instrument. You didn't just hear sports, you heard defenses. Even though you've been stifling in the coalition all along, it's a sport. Well, as you can see, it's not just about sports. And according to the original proposal, only members of a sports shooting organisation, such as a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions or an international and officially recognised sports association, could obtain weapons documents. In short, according to the original proposal, this weapon would be for sport's sake, i.e. I emphasise once again, for sport's sake all sportsmen have indeed received, but in the SDS and NSI you have tabled this controversial amendment to allow the legal basis for some quasi-organisations, let's say VSOs, to prepare a legal basis for them so that they can also use these strictly regulated weapons. And yesterday I showed you a picture [[shows two photos]] . Here you see them, a few years ago they were shooting with banned weapons, trombone was installed upstairs, bayonet was installed upstairs. Prohibited. Although it was explained to me that it was some kind of exhibition that the military brought it in. Please, 50-year-old rifles must not have brought the members of the VSOs there to beat up after them. But the president of this society is none other than State Secretary Bozo Predaliè himself. So that legislation is no longer in breach, a super legal basis for such matters is being drawn up so that you will not be in trouble in the future. Of course, this very dangerous and controversial article must be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 50. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 55. We're voting. 81 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to the new Article 55a. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, had already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at that meeting, should carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 31. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. As the proposed decision is not adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and work of the police is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the law on police organisation and work brings some ratings to the police on the basis of a professional agreement. On the thumb, we can say that a policeman could get 150 euros more than usual. On the other hand, there are also provisions in this amendment that are extremely problematic. One of them is that on the cut-off date, that is, on the day of the entry into force of these novels, to all the heads of the GPU-level organisational units, the General Police Administration, all the directors of police administrations and all the commanders, who, by the way, are becoming police station commanders, will cease their position. In some ways, they will be left to the mercy and unhappiness of any ruling policy, which will then be able to decide whether or not it will be a new selection procedure for this job, so either it will remain or whether it will run or not. Well, in this case, it's some kind of cleaning that's extremely problematic. The second reason which is extremely problematic is also that the powers of the Attorney General are taken into account in the pre-trial proceedings, in the event that he decides not to direct the current investigation of the crime and that a greater margin of manoeuvre is allowed to the Minister. Finally, the guidelines state that the situation in which the State Prosecutor was informed of the crime is being resolved, but that he did not take the lead and, consequently, the Minister's orientation was not possible under the applicable provisions of the Law on Organisation and Work in the Police. That means there's an option. And only these two proposed novels are extremely problematic and I think that, in fact, those who understand the plight of the police on the one hand and on the other hand see that the police system with these provisions can completely change, collapse, and become dependent and no longer independent, then in fact there is no question of how he will vote. Of course, we can't support this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukić has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. In short, today we have yet another in a series of laws that are professionally unfounded, harmful, and powerless, and not people. Like STA, RTV, the Court of Auditors and other indispensable building blocks of democratic society are also the police hostage of Janez Janša. In fact, the law allows for political involvement in open criminal proceedings. In fact, the Minister would like to ensure the impact on the course of criminal investigations. The prosecution of directing and conducting investigations would no longer be independent. And Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs could see to it that their pals are completely untouchable. On the other hand, it could be easier to eliminate political opponents. The intimidation and attempts to prosecute anyone who disagreed with the Government would be institutionalised. There are, of course, additional matters in the law that will further subjugate the NPU. Then we also have a provision to extend the possibility of a policeman being suspended if proposed by a medical commission – a commission which is, of course, referred to as the political director-general of the police. Then, of course, the union engagement of the police is hampered and so on and so forth. In short, the disputed articles in this law are crumbling. The goal is obviously one alone – the final submission of the police to the political interests of Janez Janša and Aleš Hojs. It's as bad a marriage as we've seen it for a long time. If the National Assembly so naively supports such horrifying and frightening laws, then we are no longer assisted. Of course, we will vote against it with determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. My colleague, Rudy Medved, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, President. In the Marjan Šarca Letter, we believe that the amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police are by no means suitable for further consideration, which is a shame, because some of the provisions of this Act are for the benefit of the police. But under the cover of building modern and effective police organisation, leadership and direction lies the government's desire to fully politicise and subjugate the system of the Slovenian Police. The management staff will be even more in the midst of political orientations, otherwise there will be further exchanges without verifiable ground. By deleting the main cross-border standard between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, the government of Janez Janša is trying to legalise the practice of inadmissible policy involvement in pre-arrangement procedures under the sole jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the policy will have a direct look at specific criminal proceedings through ministers' officials. Since this government's appearance, the National Investigation Office has been marred by the dismantling of this criminalist unit. The direct subordination of the National Investigation Office to the administration of the criminal police and its director means, in other words, the end of the autonomy of the NPU. Once the NPU has been led by policy, the NPU will now definitively amputate the NPU of all decision-making powers on what and how the National Investigation Office will investigate. These are the key provisions of this law, as we see in the List of Marjan Šarcs, and, in the conviction of our Group of Members, should in no way be adopted. We should not be accepted if we want to keep the police as we know them and respect them – police officers as public service of all citizens, which they are, and not the police as a system tool to defend the ruling policy. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will vote against further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	We will also vote in the SAB Group against the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration. I will not repeat the reasons which have already been correctly listed by my colleagues, in particular I agree with the two key reasons that my colleague, Baković, has set out. I'd like to add another one. This law also degrades the NPU Director on a case-by-case basis to the level of an ordinary public official whose mandate may expire immediately after the change of government. It is said that, as with other secretaries of state and others, the mandate can be terminated within one year of the change of government, so the Director of the NPU is now downgraded to that level, which of course means further intervention in the independence and independence of that body. And all of this despite all the good things in this marriage is so bad that we cannot support it that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? My friend Runk in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Yeah. Yesterday, I listened to Hoys's Alesh talk. It is ideologically disputed that commanders at operational level are called commanders, because this is socialist, although this is the legacy of Austro-Hungarian, we have some neighbouring countries, France and Italy, where they are equally named. The other thing that's problematic is that certain mayors go to their livers because they've been assigned commanders for six, seven years on certain functions. Maybe it's their liver because they're walking on the edge of the law or over the edge of the law or they're puffed up. They're absolutely going to the liver of the NPU because it's investigating the work that this government is doing. But you're even more into the liver of the DA to direct these investigations. Stop fucking around, please! I'll vote against it. That would be dangerous even if I were the Prime Minister of the Government, let alone the gentleman in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 41. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 7. Seven. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 16. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, I'm the one who hung up, but I'm asking you to react quickly, not when we're voting. [[…]] [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[Yeah.]] My colleague Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	On behalf of the LMŠ Group, I declare that we will not support this amendment. In fact, you do not offer any professionally justified reason to drastically reduce the fines for speeding, even in a settlement. We should be aware that such a drastic reduction in monetary penalties, such as for a speedy ride of 30 kilometres per hour from 500 euros to 250 euros, could not offer any additional, say, foreign criminal sanctions that would still provide some dissuasive effect, such as an increase in the number of penalty points or a temporary withdrawal of a driver's licence, such a change in legislation that has been in force since 2011, is said to have already been cited by road users on such penalties. Such a change can lead to a real decline in road safety. We all know, I hope we're all aware that the already exceeded speed for, say, 10 kilometers an hour in a settlement when a child runs by a ball on the road can mean the difference between life and death. And even more so, I do not understand your allegations, why and why the reduction of these fines for speedy driving when you used the explanation that high fines do not have a dissuasive effect anyway. On the other hand, in this novel you also increase the fine for using a mobile phone while driving or parking in a parking space for disabled persons. I don't understand that logic. Especially if we know that driving too high or too fast is one of the main causes of accidents, including fatalities. According to the LMŠ Group, however, human life is worth more than 250 euros less than the fine for speeding in the village. I sincerely wish that this moment would find so much wisdom that we do not support this amendment because we have no professional reasons for it. Such reckless changes in legislation, criminal legislation or criminal legislation can lead to serious consequences when it becomes applicable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 38. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, had already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at that meeting, should hold a third consideration of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 34. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 15. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8. Seven. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 11a. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members of Parliament, the LMŠ and the SAB to Article 15. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 46. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended law were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 38th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of disposable plastic products is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, colleague Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Of course, I will also vote in this case that the law is suitable for further consideration, because this is once again the opposition law that we have drafted in the SAB party and the other opposition parties have signed, namely, that the whole directive should actually enter into force on 3 July, the whole European Union directive entitled the Directive on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment should be transposed. The long-term objective of this Directive is to significantly reduce the number of plastics in our waters, in particular — and this is one of the key objectives — to halve the number of plastic waste in the seas by 2030. Thus, by 3 July, nine days ago, the Government should have prepared this extremely important directive for its implementation, but it is not. Again in the opposition, we decided to help, we had neither the knowledge nor the expertise to pass on the whole directive, which in certain parts also sets out clear criteria for the design of plastics, which must be the constituents of plastic products, as regards labelling, as regards extended liability, all of this should be regulated by the Government. However, we have addressed an essential part of this directive, which prohibits plastic products for single use. These are products that are key to polluting our waters and seas, 80% of them in the seas. Among them are the largest number of food containers, followed by food containers, cutlery, plates, straws, pots for drinks. All these are incorruptible plastics that come into our rivers and seas and, of course, pollute it irreparably. Animals in rivers and seas die, choke, use plastic products, because of plastics, microplastics also reduce their reproductive capacity and extinction of the entire animal species. I know that the Government promises to regulate this, but any of this most important part of this directive, by immediately preventing the use and sale of non-degradable plastics from being used and sold, we could do one important step now and thus also towards achieving the environmental objectives that we have set ourselves as a country in the Presidency and as the European Union. Because, as experts warn, we do not have years to achieve certain ecological goals if we want to reverse the negative spiral, we have months or days available. I propose that this law, which has six articles, be confirmed by the Government, if necessary, and adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleague Natasa Sukić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support this proposal. Why? Since 2017, we have been persistently making recommendations for four years, referring to the Cerar government and to the Sharčev government. And interestingly, all these recommendations on restrictions or on the prohibition of the sale of plastic products, and then on from plastic bags, were so unanimously adopted in the National Assembly. But nothing happened. Not under Cerar's government, not under Sharchar's government. These recommendations have only been adopted. Well, that's why it's time to settle this with the law. Of course, we will support this, for some scientists believe that all the presence of plastic in the natural environment is that milestone that marks the beginning of the so-called age of plastic, some new geological era of our planet. It is time for us to make a firm end of this. It is no big deal if the whole directive is later transposed, it is time to start today and the directive should only upgrade what may still be missing today. We will definitely support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I would ask you to listen to just two more sentences after the vote, because there is usually noise, as if the school bell rang. [[Laughing in the hall]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 24th meeting of the convention, which we will continue on Monday, 12. 7:00 p.m. Members and Members of Parliament would like to request that due to the preparation of the hall for the meeting, without public presence on Monday, 12. 7:00 p.m., you take all your stuff out of the hall. Thank you so much for a nice weekend. Consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 15.10. The session was suspended at 9. JULY 2021 AT 2.57 p.m.
