ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 75th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Iva Dimic between 11.30 p.m. and 14 p.m., only Bevk between 12 p.m. and 18 p.m., Yuri Lepi until 16 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbich. I invited Aleš Remih, President of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia to the 20th agenda item, the President of the Government of Janez Ivan Janša to the 21st agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 23rd agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 24 May 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda or proposals for the withdrawal of the item. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 21. Agenda item – Proposal for an indictment by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of Slovenia and the law. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal of the 39 Members and Members Group with the first-signed Branet Golubović to request the President of the Republic to deliver an opinion on the proposal for an indictment by the President of the Government, pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 192 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Assembly will decide on this proposal in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In order to explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u2	Dear colleagues! Today is essentially the moment when the founders of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia did not actually count on it in 1991. Indeed, the President of the Republic has already been maimed in the constitution by a large number of attributes, which would simply come from the title and purpose of what this body actually represents. They made it very clear, for some reason - because they were all afraid - and we all know and know this story. We have a president of the Republic who for almost seven years has said that he is not a moral authority. Today we can only say that many times in recent weeks we have listened to how the presentation or opinion on the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Republic of Slovenia has nothing to do with the National Assembly and that this is absolutely nothing more than a matter of the National Assembly. Then I wonder why today the President of the National Assembly read articles in harmony with the Rules of Procedure where this possibility exists. This possibility exists for only one reason. If ever, then it is now time for the President of the Republic of Slovenia to make a very clear statement on the proposal for a constitutional charge, because it is a serious charge, whether it is indeed a threat to the rule of law and the Constitution and what its opinion and position is on this issue. In the Republic of Slovenia we need moments when, of course, the President of the Republic can communicate when it is time for this cooperation. And we have been able to hear more than once in the past, especially the opposition that now is the time to cooperate. Therefore, we would like to hear the President of the Republic of Slovenia say how we should cooperate – I stress, when the STA is not funded. How should we cooperate with non-vaccination when necessary? And how should we cooperate in the non-delegation of European state prosecutors? Let him come and tell us in this national council that we're wrong. That's why I think it's time and time for the president of the National Assembly, if he doesn't come, to at least write a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. It appears that the central theme of the May meeting of the National Assembly will be the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister. At the time of the hearing of the Prime Minister's accusation before the Constitutional Court, of course, every statement will be more detailed, but if we touch them briefly, we will find that it is evidence that is not justified and is more than an obvious matter of subjective interpretation and a desire to overthrow the current government. The President of the Republic is now looking to be included in this scenario, and we are also deciding to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic on the proposal for an indictment by the Prime Minister before the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you that this same President of the Republic, immediately after the well-known outcome of the 2018 national elections, invited all parliamentary parties to discuss the composition of the coalition with the relative winner of the elections at that time, although, like the other party champions who were elected, he did not have sufficient parliamentary support for the election. At that time, the President of the Republic said, quote: “It would be good and useful to have all the parties’ conversations unfolded. It is not only about creating a government, but also about whether cooperation or exclusion will prevail.” End of quote. The opinion of the President of the Republic apparently did not count much at the time. At that time, we gave an opportunity to another candidate for a term of office who, after a short reign, threw a rifle into the corn. The President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, is a public figure. He expresses his opinions through various media outlets. And most importantly, he has already participated in the work of the National Assembly many times. It may at any time express an interest in participating in the matters that we are dealing with. I could have done it this time, too. However, it has all the necessary mechanisms at its disposal. Just because he is not specifically invited to do so today does not mean that we are denying him this possibility. We will therefore not support the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic, because there is no need for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Many citizens of our country are the President of the Republic this year and a half, much disappointed by the Government of Janez Janša. They were disturbed by the fact that, with many concerns, this government, for example, has not announced the hostile speech and the case of restricting and trampling human rights, but rather distanced itself and insisted on its calls for coherence and tolerance from the political scene. What exactly are the competences, in particular what the constitutional role of the President of the Republic may be, there may be different opinions, but most citizens are opinions, and this is also the opinion of us in the SAB that, as the most democratic and directly elected policy in certain situations, it should simply give its opinion and even if this is not the case with every government suit. The attack by the executive branch of the judiciary and, in particular, the accounting of the President of the Government with the high representatives of this branch, who cannot, cannot and do not want to go to the same level, for example, is one such occasion when the President should come forward and not only with guidance on the importance of maintaining the cultural level of dialogue. The same applies to blocking the prosecution and disproportionate punishment of students who demonstrated for returning to school in the face of pressure on the media and without the disgraceful destruction of the STA, when the Government does not respect even clear its own legislation, that we do not list cases where the President of the Government and some of his ministers, with their tweets and letters, have disgraced the Republic of Slovenia and started our international reputation. We missed the president's definition of pressing issues and contentious matters, we lacked the courage to condemn at a time when Slovenia is divided up as never before the frontier of maintaining its neutral and popular stance and condemns what is worth condemning. Today, we have before us the proposal for an indictment by the Prime Minister of the Government, an extremely important and rare institution of the opposition, which, of course, can also have consequences for each country. The indictment contains a number of significant and substantive findings that go beyond just the delay in ordering vaccines. At the request of the SAB, a controversial amendment of the Water Act, which interferes with the constitutional right to drinking water, which we have fought so hard for in the SAB, is why we want the President of the Republic, in his opinion, to define himself specifically and unequivocally on all these matters on the charge, not only because he is our directly elected president and experienced politicians in many areas, but also because he owes it not only to us, the National Assembly, but especially to the citizens and citizens who have elected him. [[Incomprehensible]] In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When you run out of ideas to argue your early departure from the government, you're obviously starting to use different ways of trying to improve your image among your constituents and nothing wrong. It is sad that we have come to repeat and highlight the accusations that fall under the auspices of the various competent institutions for a few points of public opinion research, but it is the task of Members to meet in the Assembly Halls in all the topics on which the call is made and to clear them through a thorough debate. This is an emphasis on all subjects and not those that smell better to us. An indication of a senseless obstruction in certain meetings of the working bodies of a particular parliamentary group. It is up to us elected Members of the National Assembly to determine the appropriateness and justification of the constitutional charge. In the Group of Members, we therefore believe that there is no additional need to define the proposal as President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The Slovenian National Party's Group will present its position. Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! The Constitutional Charge of the Prime Minister of the Government is a legitimate tool used by the opposition in this case, demands that the President of the State come forward to present his opinion, which is absolutely not necessary at this time, and we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. It is always stressed in the National Assembly that individual branches of power need to be separated, and whenever there is an intervention, you are very critical. In the event that Pahor would continue to determine the charges you have made in your documents, in some way he would have prejudged some decision or some point of view, I do not think that this is absolutely necessary. Even if this constitutional charge had been made, someone would have treated it or understood it as pressure on the Constitutional Court to decide. Many times in the past, you have pointed out in the opposition that individual branches of power must not interfere in some way with each other and that some influence of the other branch of power is fundamentally unacceptable. In this case, if we vote that Mr Pahor should be defined as matters that we do not even know whether the infringement is justified or not, we would prejudge things in some way, so we absolutely believe that this is not necessary and that this would be usurpation in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u12	If ever, then it is now time for the President of the Republic to define himself until the constitutional indictment of the President of the Government. In the LMŠ, we are aware of the importance of power-sharing for democracy. We believe that the dispersion of political power into legislative, executive and judicial power prevents one person or one branch of power from taking precedence. But in Slovenia we have been witnessing for one year the absolute power of one person, one party that is subordinated to all social systems with the help of New Slovenia and SMC, slowly subordinated to independent media, judiciary, supervisory institutions, public sector, economy, culture, art and this house of our parliament, changing our history and symbols of the country. In order to achieve their objectives, they do not choose the means, they break the Constitution and the laws. The Authority and the State take this coalition as their property, they do not recognise the division of power into legislative, judicial and executive. These are dangerous times for our democracy, despite the opinion of the President of the Republic that these strict assessments are radical. I will give just one example which should simply not happen in mature democracy, this is an example of the suspension of the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency. It is a government subjugation of the STA, where the Government took the employees and their families hostage. Despite clear legal provisions, the President of the Government, with his ministers, has not respected the law for six months, nor has he complied with the provisions of the 7th Anti-Korona Act, which have been the result of a violation of the basic act on the STA. And what's more than breaking democracy is disrespect for the sharing of power when the government doesn't respect the laws that this National Assembly accepts. What's not clear to anyone here, and why are you fooling around? A government that considers it self-sufficient, which simply ignores laws that do not benefit them, which knowingly violates the Constitution, which does not work in accordance with the moral principles of our society, such a government simply has nothing in common with democracy, such a government is a radical government. And this is the moment that requires the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly and its definition of non-compliance with the Constitution and laws by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is right that the President of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly makes clear what he thinks about not naming prosecutors, not funding the STA, about the poor organisation of vaccination and not buying 90 thousand doses of vaccine at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u14	Attacks and discredits of journalists, media extremes. So much so that these attacks went across borders that they went to attacks by foreign journalists, foreign newspapers, foreign media houses, so far that in fact the whole European space and also the wider address and address of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as some modern-day highway, a man who introduces iliberal democracy on the basis of Hungary. Attacks and discredits of prosecutors, judges, judges as such, non-names, delegated European prosecutors and stumbling in every step. Attacks and discredits of culturers, artists and anyone who thinks otherwise than the President of the Government. Attacks and discredits on the opposition, on individuals who think critically, attacks and discredits of protestors, attacks and discredits of anyone who does not act on the SDS model. Finally, if you want to attack the very principles of the functioning of this National Assembly. Let me point out once again that, at present, the minority coalition still has a majority on paper in virtually all the committees of this National Assembly, thus playing out the basic mechanisms enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Under the line of reference is the functioning of the President of the Government, who understands the country as his own feud and his party's feud is harmful and, of course, extremely dangerous and is fundamentally threatening to lay the foundations of this Republic itself. These are all the reasons and occasions in which the President of the Republic could already express his position. These are the moments at which a person taking the office of President of the Republic should state his or her position. Finally, this is one of the central roles, one of the central positions of the President of the Republic in our regulation. President Pahor has not done so far, and we have also proposed that the drafters of the constitutional indictment should speak about this in the National Assembly before we deal with the constitutional charge. As it is said, the findings in the constitutional indictment are serious, they are those that actually indicate that this Government is trying to change the way this country operates and also the functioning of this country, and this is the moment when the President of the Republic has to come forward. That is why we will support this decision in the left hand side and expect the President of the Republic to express his position definitively once, and we will see what he will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u15	Thank you very much. As the last position will be presented by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. The position will be presented by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor invited us twice to participate in Brdo pri Kranju, together with the advisory group for COVID-19 at the Ministry of Health. Why? To take the best decisions together how to take Slovenian society, the country as soon as possible without a virus, without an epidemic into some new normality. Interestingly, today's proponents of the constitutional indictment of President of the Government want him here, or they want to have his opinion, they want him to be identified until this constitutional accusation, and this very part of the Slovenian political spectrum has brutally ignored the invitation of the President of the Republic. Actually, this is about the image thing. Our assessment is, ladies and gentlemen, if the President of the Government comes here, or if he writes his own opinion, his position on the constitutional charge, or if he doesn't write whatever he does, he will, in fact, be a state institution that will be nailed to the cross. Therefore, our assessment, Members of Parliament and Members of New Slovenia is that we do not need the opinion of the President of the Republic. We will therefore vote against the proposal for the President of the Republic to make a statement on the constitutional charge. In fact, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor has always taken care of political stability during these seven years. In other words, he has always encouraged the functioning of the government, any, including these, current. Some projects of this government have been specifically, explicitly praised. That is how we already know his position, and that is why we will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u18	Interesting presentations of the views on how to vote. But now we are not talking about a constitutional charge. We speak only and exclusively of the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Some of you have mentioned that it is a matter of public personality, that it calls on the government every time, participates and encourages it in various projects. We're not talking about that. We're only talking about a constitutional charge. And the Rules of Procedure are very clear in Article 192. I don't know what the authors of this Rules of Procedure were thinking when they wrote in section 3 of Article 192, which says: "At the request of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic has an opinion on the proposal for an indictment by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's motion for an indictment." As a result, we or some would like to give up what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you know what the President of the Republic does and does, he has no connection with the three branches of power. It is a representative body, a moral authority to which he gives up, but regardless, we are not talking about Mr Borut Pahor, we are talking about the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Tomorrow, another President of the Republic of Slovenia may be able to do so, but the provisions of Rule 192 of the Rules of Procedure will be the same. Why have you given up on the opinion of the President of the Republic in 30 years? I don't know, I was not the author of these constitutional accusations. However, I know that the left-hand centre has decided, for the first time in history, to make a constitutional indictment, and believe me, that the constitutional charge is based and will be based in the next point solely and solely on evidence. There will be no political ideology, the one who fears you. That is why we expect this from the President of the Republic, very clearly and very simply – to come to the National Assembly or to write down and say, I repeat his attitude towards the accusations which are crucial that someone violates the Constitution and the law, because the rule of law that we are all and other individual officials of the full-mouthed community in this Chamber is continuing. However, when this is stopped when the infringement occurs, we give up the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I really call on all of us together; we are not just Members; we also have the word that we like to use at other times, representatives of the people. Now is the time to say or say or perform our task in the true sense of the word. We work for people?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: »The National Assembly shall, pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 192(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, require the President of the Republic of Slovenia to deliver an opinion by 31 May 2021 by 8 p.m. on the proposal for an indictment by the President of the Government.” Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Procedural Procedural Proposal? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u20	Yeah. I ask for half an hour on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u21	Look, it's a procedural decision. There's usually no break. So I suggest we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u22	Mr President, before any decision, the Group of Members may request a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u23	[[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Did you hear the explanation? This is a decision on the agenda, so I propose that we go to the vote. Look, we'll do it if you want. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u24	It's a point of content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u25	We're gonna take a break. I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume at 10 o'clock. (The sitting was suspended at 9.32 p.m.) (The sitting continued at 10 a.m.) uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision that I will read again [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal, colleague Brana Golubovic. [[advertising from the hall]] [[No, no, ……]] Therefore, I will read once again the proposal for a decision if someone has forgotten it within half an hour: “The National Assembly, pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 192(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall require the President of the Republic of Slovenia to give an opinion by 31 May 2021 by 8 p.m. on the Proposal for an indictment by the President of the Government.” We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision, so we are continuing to consider the proposal for an indictment. The motion for an indictment was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 39 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. I give the floor to Jani Möderndorfer's representative for further explanation of the motion for indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u27	Colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I would also like to welcome the President of the Government, but as we can see, he will not be included in this action, showing only the attitude towards the National Assembly. “Forgiven” is a word that best symbolizes the illegal and unconstitutional actions of Prime Minister Janez Janša. I'm simplifying it for the introduction on purpose. As temporary minister of health, he left the purchase of sufficient doses of Pfizer BionTech and Moderna vaccine. As President of the Government, he still leaves the legal obligation to finance the public service of the Slovenian Press Agency. It also leaves a full introduction to the Government by the name of the candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor and leaves the appointment of state prosecutors. I repeat, he's passing laws and constitutions. As well as international legal acts to which the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself, whether you like it or not. As a member of the Government, as its President, he allows or dictates violations of legal acts or prevents them from being carried out, voluntarily, authoritarianly, harmfully and dangerously, in the face of democracy and as a mockery from his own country and people. The reason for the President's illegal and unconstitutional conduct is his personal war with everything that is independent and autonomous in this country and in every democratic regime. And the media is the first target. Among them, the Slovenian Press Agency is the easiest. By suspending the financing of its public service, i.e. reporting, which is free of charge to all, the Government, because of the decision of its President, violates Articles 3 and 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. The members are very and very clear: the duty of the founder - and this is the country, each time the government is merely the exerciseer of its rights - is to ensure adequate funding for the full and smooth operation of the public service on the basis of the Agency's business plan. I repeat, this is a duty. The financing of the public service is therefore not a demonstration of the good will of the government or of the services, but only of the legal obligation. The legal duty to fulfil which the Government, and even less so, its President, does not act arbitrarily, following the hypnotic movements or sympathies or antipathies that the Minister's President has from the Agency and its current leaders. It is because of such laws that the Government imposes public service financing or, if you wish, commands. She is obliged to implement it because that is what the law stipulates, even though the President of the Government feels otherwise. And even though its implementation is resisting, in the rule of law it has no choice, law enforcement is the rule of law, it is a reflection. Furthermore, the President of the Government is also responsible for the violation of Article 66 of the PKP7, which, in view of ignoring the umbrella law, commands more decisively the budgetary financing of the public service of the STA, whether or not the contract with the agency is concluded this year. Two laws, both clear, funding is a duty and a result, the payment of funds is still suspended. The Agency has been running low on money for 146 days, and the President of the Government has been a lawbreaker for at least the same time. In addition, the Prime Minister's description of his conduct constitutes a violation of the right to freedom of expression as defined in Article 39 of the Constitution. The Slovenian Press Agency prevents the management of its core mission and this is public information. So what she was set up to do almost exactly 30 years ago. From here on, there is little legal argument in government, but much more confusion about facts, deception, scolding of truth and hypocrisy. For example, the amount of funds or the appropriate funding remains unknown. Don't hold it. The law goes to the Agency’s business plan and to the annual contract concluded with the STA and specifies the amount to the euro. Pika. Everything else is mere conjecture. That STA doesn't deliver the required documentation, they say. Don't hold it. Everything defined by the contract, the agency regularly intervenes, even more, under the Company Act, the government may also require, but the government simply does not do so. But we may request the Government, which exercises the right of the State, I repeat, the Government, and certainly not UKOM, which the Prime Minister deliberately and hypocritically sent to the first battle types. UKOM is nothing and nobody in this story. He has no role because the government simply did not purpose for him, deliberately and intentionally. She didn't give him any authority, on purpose and on purpose, and she has no right to ask for anything. The author of the plan for the destruction of the Slovenian Press Agency is the President of the Government, there is no doubt about it, because he and no one else, but he is the one who, in accordance with the Government Act, leads and directs its work and gives binding guidance. Therefore, his responsibility in this farce is direct. Any other interpretation is completely irrelevant. If we wanted to finance the agency differently, if we wanted to respect it by law, we would simply fulfill the legal obligation. He's got all the levers in his hands. However, the financing of the STA has deliberately and intentionally stopped, deliberately and intentionally also violates legal obligations and carries out its own will. And so we are witnessing a bizarre situation. The Government shall have the rights of a member who, after the dictatorship of the President of the Government, does not exercise them. UKOM, which does not have any powers and therefore does not have any rights, simply owns this right after the decree of the President of the Government. The STA, even if it does not have any rights, requires documentation that does not even have the right to request it. It requires even more documentation than the Government should require. However, the Director of the STA does not stand before the choice, but before the fact that he breaks the law if he wants to continue financing the public service, he has to provide too much documentation to the wrong one. This would violate, on the one hand, the obligation to protect business secrecy and, on the other, the legal principles, the independence and impartiality of the journalistic work, and the independence of the agency. The President of the Government, who is not in the hall, is said to be a mere survival. You're playing too tight, and you're playing a very careful game. As a director of the government's work, you violate and dictate to others the violation of the statutory obligation to finance the public service of the STA, while at the same time abandoning the obligation to act, to exercise rights, on behalf of the State, as a member and founder of the agency, and with all this misbehaviour and this you are very skilled, to force others into illegality and to even send inspections and police, of course, over the media and above all others, in recent times even to the newspaper Dnevnik. You're doing this on purpose and on purpose. You just don't have any coincidences. Women and power you poorly by control and by controlling information and their interpretations. In the background, however, according to media subordination, the Slovenian Press Agency is first of all, because it is a chronicist and is only a consistent description of events and as such an information link for the remaining media and to suffer financially, to take over the human resources, to introduce the minds, and this is your main objective, so you have crowned yourself an arbitrator, to judge, to respect when the law and the Constitution are respected and when to ignore it because it suits you or not personally. You're not an arbitrator. You're a common offender. I would like to say that some of the non-funding of the public service STA is this evidence, evidence of a violation of the laws and the Constitution while the STA continues to carry out the public service. I can imagine how he must disturb the President of the Government because the agency's intentional destruction plan is not working for the moment. His second personal war with all the independent and his underprivileged president of the government is fighting with the prosecutors. They are also subject to autonomy, impartiality and autonomy, as are journalists or media. They are bound solely by the Constitution and the laws by no means to the instructions of the President of the Government, and this is the reason for the suspension of the names or advancements of prosecutors on the one hand and on the other for the incomplete procedure of appointing candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor. In particular, in the case of the last unlawful conduct of the President of the Government, it is very clear that it violates Article 2 of the Constitution, according to which Slovenia is a legal state, in violation of Article 71 of the Law in the State Prosecutor's Office, which, in the process of appointing a European Delegated Prosecutor, gives only an informational role to the Government, but because it is in the very process of appointing the last of its actors that the President of the Government has failed to make sure that the ministers do not know the proposed names or are unable to get to know them. Its responsibility is individualised, for it is the Prime Minister who guides and directs the work of the Government and refers and directs its meetings, and he simply does not place the material in the meeting. The government's investigative role, which is why it cannot execute a candidate for a European Delegated Prosecutor, remains without a formal green light. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, however, is incomplete and ineffective and will now appear to simply cancel the procedure because it has decided to do so. If I say otherwise, the President of the Government takes the right to stand before the law and the Constitution in particular of his own antipathies to the proposed two, because the candidates have investigated his property and declared himself a judge or if you want to deny legal acts simply because at this point he is not in line with him because he disagrees with them because the Government, as he said in this Chamber, is not a postman and the post office has a kind of attitude that we all know very well. For himself he wants and requires a decisive and decisive word simply in everything. He takes it to the prosecutors, or even to them, just as the U.S.A. has adopted it there, he vehemently stops the appointment of prosecutors, or their promotion, if the government needs more time. Of course it is, but not for the assessment of the expertise of the individual prosecutor, because it is the task of the State Prosecutor's Council to assess political suitability? Do we hear from the political prosecutor? A political, prosecutor who by law is independent and independent, who will decide whether or not to file a criminal charge and how he will represent it. This is not only the prosecutor's right, but also the duty of the President of the Government in this field simply has no rights. One more time. However, last summer, the President of the Government made a special announcement to the Attorney General in the exercise of his office. In a letter addressed to the Attorney General, he demanded the prosecution of protestors who wore banners with the title “Death of Janshism!” to ignore his legal role and to attribute to him the responsibility to increase the promotion of violence and the consequences of the passiveness of the authorities. Finally, he even wrote down the threat that he would be "rightly responsible for any possible victims of organised death threats". If, in the appointment of prosecutors, the Prime Minister, of course, abandons his duties, he has imposed them in this case, with direct instructions on what actions the prosecution should prosecute and indirectly with the express expectation that they will be persecuted. As the highest representative of the executive branch, he intervened in the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, which can undoubtedly also be seen as unacceptable and, in particular, as political pressure on the Attorney General. The Prime Minister also instiled him in order to hold him responsible, leading him to conduct that was contrary to the legal powers or to intervene in the independence and independence of state prosecutors. The Prime Minister, he is not in the Chamber when it comes to the work of prosecutors, you have no rights and no duties. But I allow you to have personal impulses, prospects, or benefits, and if, of course, this course is very bad. In the case of the Delegated Prosecutors, you get revenge on both candidates, while you send political warnings and your personal messages to the local prosecutor, waiting for appointment or promotion, and even more so named. Let's just say that investigating certain crimes is not in your interest. In fact, by your unlawful conduct, you let them know, watch and follow you, act as I expect. You deliberately and openly pressure the prosecutors, and you often despise their work, which you do is simply usurpation. In mockery of the law and the rule of law, you leave the duty of duty. Respect for or denial of existing legislation is subject to your immediate will and personal interests. You're not an arbitrator, you're a felon, you're a lawbreaker and you're a constitutionalist. The evidence, the evidence. Unacquainting the government with the name of the candidates for the Delegated Prosecutor and not naming state prosecutors – this is evidence, evidence of a violation of the law and the Constitution, which is direct. The third war to be fought or to be waged by the Prime Minister has simply left. And this is a war for all available additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines available in Slovenia under the system for war or proportionality. In December, he left the possibility of acquiring an additional 900 000 doses of Pfizer-Biontech and Moderna vaccine on purpose and intentionally, as Prime Minister and Minister of Health. The results of his abandonment are less vaccinated, not less than 450 thousand less vaccinated. And this is not a trifle that, of course, represents untold consequences to all of us. As a result of this lower number of vaccinateds, the situation in the country and in the health sector as well as in the social, economic and mental areas. The Prime Minister has acted unlawfully or has abandoned his duty once again. However, both of them are equally burdensome, for both of them, whether it is an active act or a waiver of the right of people to health care as provided for in Article 51 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which the law also expressly stipulates that no one – pay attention! – especially those who need evidence, no one should endanger the health of others. It also violated the right of people to social security and to personal dignity and security under Articles 50 and 34 of the Constitution. In the conduct of the Prime Minister, we also recognize the signs of the offence of the bride's work under Article 258 of the Penal Code. As Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Health in one person, he knew or should have known what was going on with the purchases of the vaccine, but he should also have foreseen that his conduct or abandonment of duties could result in more serious violations of rights, of course people, or damage to public goods. There's been a worse violation of the rights. I've listed these rights for you. And a step further. The administration or better treatment of the President of the Government can be understood as well as the abuse of the official position of Article 257 of the Penal Code. For he did not perform his official duties, at least indirectly prolonging the epidemic and even leading the country to the supposedly needed new lock long ago. It is, and it is still easier to maintain power, and it is its immeasurable benefit. If I snore. Do people really have the right to the highest level of health and health care, if they are in their double role, you have not taken care of enough vaccine? They're not. No one can endanger the health of others, the real law, but someone threatened him and it was you. You want evidence, so I'll keep going. Anything other than a violation of the constitutional right to personal dignity and security, suspension of the purchase of 900 thousand doses of vaccine. The bride’s work at work is, in fact, a very mild description of your deliberate work. If you ordered all the vaccine available, 450 thousand people could have received at least the first dose before, and an undetectable number of people would have been protected from the possible severe course of the disease and even before not telling where I was going, but you know it yourself. As Prime Minister of the Government and interim Minister of Health, you should do your utmost to protect people's health. But no, you don't. Not Janez Janša. There is simply no coincidence in you, it is only intentional and premeditated in the future carefully thought out to me completely unimaginable. That's why I can't know, but I can only assume. Let's say you miscalculated and pretentiously tacted and waited for a more financially beneficial Astra Zenece vaccine. We waited for the price of health and unfortunately for people's lives. We have been waiting for all thousands of euros that you have earmarked for inadequate or unusable equipment, and for some completely unnecessary measures that are still solely for the purpose of pre-election bribery. Anything for power, anything for power. For human health, you don't. Not Janez Janša. Because you simply have no coincidences, everything is intentional and on purpose, I suppose, or I am increasingly convinced that the epidemic simply suits you, because covering the cover for your excesses you have been performing since the first day because it is a cover for, of course, the silence of independent institutions and also people, and your objectives are control, control, guidance and intimidation, and so on during or despite the epidemic. Since everything is deliberate and deliberate with you and part of a carefully thought-out scenario where you do not leave a trail, you have also left the signing of the contracts to the current Secretary of State, but I regret to disappoint you here. You could have given her some authority, but you couldn't have just relieved yourself of your responsibilities. This remains yours and exclusively yours, as is exclusively your responsibility for all done and abandoned for all the above-mentioned illegal and unconstitutional. I repeat, with Janez Janša there are no coincidences, it is only intentional and intentional, and in this spirit he has also chosen his targets, control of the media, information and their interpretation is his first coven. The Slovenian press agency, however, is only one of the media’s houses, which according to it has to be disciplined. Why first? Because of the arbitrary and illegal halting of public service funding, it is the easiest to break and consequently subjugate. It will not stop, especially if it succeeds with the STA. What he has is media, although not particularly if he succeeds in STA, what he has in the media, even though in the indirect own or his client has neither the quality nor the substantive weight nor the reach. Another of his covens is probably due to the procedures in which he is involved, of course, with the prosecutors, the judiciary or his misdemeanour. How to act first and how else does the President of the Government show himself acting arbitrarily and with a dictatorship and thus unlawfully blocking his recruitment, which is an attempt at discipline and deliberately and intentionally follows the rule of law, whose pillars are also independent media. And in the meantime, the epidemic lasts, the Prime Minister doesn't even want it to end. It is only easier to control society in the name of health by locking people down and reducing their freedom and freedoms, but it was of secondary importance, according to which almost a million additional doses of the vaccine were not available. We have the Constitution and the laws in force after most of them are clear, and those I have mentioned are completely unequivocal, defining duties, rights, order. We have an executive and legislative branch of power, each having its own clearly defined tasks and responsibilities. I wonder what all of this helps us when the government's leadership is taken over by an individual who has the right to arbitrarily decide and dictate, of course, taking into account their narrow partisan interests, what is actually true in the country and what to take into account in which case or what to ignore. I wonder what to do when someone without conscience stops the operation of the systems and subsystems of society, in fact euthanizes them, where it voluntarily entitles itself to interpret the legal order and, in an illegal and unconstitutional way, to punish them and to warn them that it is the turn of all. [[Incomprehensible]] You keep the STA and her employees in check because they don't move. You're holding the European Public Prosecutor's Office in check because you're going to be a long-term prosecutor or they won't be. You want to discipline the media, justice, people. Another 100,000 or more laws and articles of the clear and unequivocal could be adopted in this house, and if someone refuses to respect the laws and the Constitution, if he rejects the law, he breaks it, treads on it and institutions, we run out of words in this Chamber. What's even above you, Prime Minister, is there anything else? Laws? No, no, no. The constitution? Not at all. You don't recognize justice, but you've been disrespecting this house for a long time, as you say today, and everyone is just a means to you. But the highways are short of breath, and as a result, the highways don't like brave people, you don't like them. Let me finish. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, many times in this Chamber we have heard a reference to the 82nd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that we are Members of the people and that we vote in our own conscience. Mostly when you or we explain why you will not or will not vote. I add, if ever, then today in this debate, in particular when deciding on the constitutional charge of the President of the Government, it is time to relieve the party's ties, vows and show that the Government is always elected only in this Chamber and not vice versa. That is why you are voting in your conscience and in the name of the people, for it is only men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u29	Dear Members, honourable Members, dear citizens and citizens! We also co-sign a constitutional charge against Prime Minister Janez Janša, who is unfortunately not among us today at this point. In the SAB party, we want our Constitutional Court to verify, in accordance with the constitutional option, whether the Slovenian Prime Minister violates the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia in his work. In the SAB we're sure of them. It is likely that the institution of the indictment against members of the coalition, or rather members of the coalition and its supporters, is just another manoeuvre of the opposition, which is doomed to failure. However, in the SAB party, we stress that the task and duty of the opposition is to react at such times and to use the envisaged democratic tools to do so. The motions for a constitutional indictment, the members of the democratic opposition, have narrowed the findings and violations of both laws and constitutions to six points of content. These were just presented in detail. But the fact is, from the deposit to today, we could add some more. But let's cut to the chase. Respected and respected! Under the tactics of Janez Janša, who leads this Government of Slovenia, he goes against autonomy and the other Republic. The President of the Government is literally changing our country in accordance with his long-standing agenda and in front of our eyes. It changes the way most of our citizens and citizens do not. It is planning and systematically abolishing our political and democratic order, with the help of a coalition of helpers who either do not see it, or they do not want to see it because of the opportunity with power. There is no doubt that the Covid19 epidemic went unwittingly into all times of our society and life, and the government had to face a difficult situation. However, the severe health crisis does not in any way give the Prime Minister a mandate to deliberately undermine or violate the rule of law and this uncompromising and without any sense of proportionality and dialogue, as the Constitutional Court has already confirmed. In the SAB we are convinced that Janez Janša, together with his SDS client, has contributed more to the full polarisation of Slovenian politics and society than any other policy in this country. For years, politics has seen it as a field where all funds, including harsh insults and discredits, are allowed to achieve their own objective. Political structures and seductions, the reversal of history, with its tweets constantly awakens ideology, and as a great independent and quasi guardian of Slovenia and its identity divides the nation. But as the most damaging in the party of the SAB, in which we are united social liberals, we see its attitude towards fundamental rights and freedoms, and accounting with all other thinking media, political opponents, minorities. These must be easily destroyed, removed from the way and, before that, discredited, attacked, insulted. Also, the political parties united in a democratic position for the Government are merely an unnecessary obstacle. Nasty, don't be the one to keep it quiet. Of course, it would be best to remove it. But you're not gonna make it. As a social-liberal party in the SAB, we strongly stress respect for human rights, the rule of law, the rule of law and the freedom of the media, public health and public education. The media are the largest thorn in the fifth largest coalition party, but not all. The target is only public media that do not report in accordance with the Prime Minister's views and wishes. They're not plural enough, he'd say. But we must be aware that the political adoption of the media is planned and only the key to a much easier implementation of its own political agenda. When the ruling authority subordinates the media of the neutral news gradually replaces the news for the benefit of the government or coalition. News formation becomes a machine, it can be a spreading of lies or a balanced reporting. Do we think Slovenia deserves this? We're sure you don't. And does Slovenia deserve to see the Government shamelessly exhaust the Slovenian Press Agency for which they had to do so on World Press Freedom Day 3. 5. Launch the grant campaign? It is a shame that the aorta and backbone of Slovenian journalism must be saved by state organisations and civil society. The brutal attacks on the media and the handling of domestic and foreign journalists indicate how much the Prime Minister of the Government wants to follow the path of Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orban. Therefore, in the SAB party, we are convinced that if I do a little caricature for Slovenia, it is not the most dangerous strain of India at the moment, but the Hungarian strain. This country, our democracy and our values can be doomed. To take sides with the problem of Hungary and Poland, the European public was not only perceived by Slovenia but also by the European public. Significantly, the Prime Minister was not invited to the Eurasian [[?]] the conference on the future of Europe in Strasbourg. Various comments from foreign politicians and foreign public are also relevant. We are confident that the successful Presidency of the European Union will not succeed with this way of working for the Government and President Janša. With regard to the other substantive arguments in the indictment, we have requested that the SAB party also include responsibility for the adoption of the Water Act, with which the Government is flexibly protecting our waters and coastal areas. It was in our client years ago that we requested and first signed the entry of the right to clean drinking water into the Constitution, because we were convinced and, of course, still that clean drinking water is an extremely important value and good that needs to be protected in a timely manner. Clean drinking water is our Slovenian oil, our natural gas, and the key is that we are extremely careful in dealing with it and its preservation. In the SAB we are concerned that, in terms of the protection of water resources, the law has been confirmed a step back and that in the long term it may have a fatal impact on the supply of drinking water to the population. And instead of making the water protection legislation increasingly difficult in this area, this is becoming more relaxed and giving priority to private initiatives. The President of the Government thereby potentially violates Articles 70, 70 and 72 of the Constitution. Let us also recall that, despite the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, the Government has not yet prepared appropriate legislative changes for the exercise of this right in practice. Civil society also opposed the government’s environmental policy and submitted more than 48 thousand certified signatures to the Council 6 days before the deadline for the invitation to a referendum on the Water Act. In fact, the voice of civil society has expressed its public distrust with the Government. In the SAB, we support NGOs in this area and we promise them strong assistance in the field in the referendum campaign. Our water, pure drinking water, has no price. The reasons why we support this constitutional charge in the SAB party could be discussed for quite some time. We must defend our country, which is based on democratic foundations, against hegemony and attempts at gradual but rapid changes in our constitutional order. Whether the violation of the laws and the Constitution by the President of the Government has indeed been filed, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will, in accordance with our Constitution, decide. We in the SAB party, and we will unanimously support the proposal for his indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u31	President, thank you for your word. Once again, nice greetings to all your colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the candidates and, in particular, the first-signed Members have decided to attend today's meeting. Why am I starting like this? Because some of them just don't attend. We read the constitutional accusation thoroughly in the parliamentary group. According to our assessment, this is not as much about the actual state of the culprit as it is about looking for attention and raising points in public research. Unfortunately, this is precisely by individual Members who supported the opposition to the proposals to measures to prevent the spread of infections during the Covid-19 epidemic. We have opposed the proposed measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic. In their recent interviews, they have shown that they are not up to cultural and democratic parliamentaryism. In the parliamentary group, we do not think it is the time for such populist moves as we are witnessing to them today. We are still at the time of the epidemic, and with all this growing lack of confidence in politics and politics, one wonders how many proposals are for the well-being of citizens and citizens at all. Whether early elections are really the right choice at this point. I don't have a problem with that myself. With regard to the charges themselves in the Proposal for a Constitutional Charge, however, we can understand much that could have been done differently in the course of the fight against the epidemic and the administration of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The following question is raised with vaccines. During the time of smoking and opposition to mistrust in the profession, what we will do when there are enough vaccines, and people will not want to be vaccinated or we have all done enough to promote vaccination and respect the basic measures to prevent the spread of the response is not. It must be said publicly and loudly that vaccination and decent respect for the measures will dramatically help to put an end to this epidemic saga. We advocate freedom of the media in our party, so we condemn any attempt to pressure them even if, by conditioning their existence through financial means, the PKP-7 has become a direct legal obligation and dialogue is needed to restore the normal part of this institution. Much has already been said about the investments of the Slovenian Army. The fact is that we must end our savings in the Slovenian Army, as the previous Presidents of our Government knew. We cannot expect Slovenian troops to come to the rescue in all cases of natural disasters or the rescue of the inhabitants themselves and in extremely inappropriate equipment. The claims that we are acting as an aggressor country in other sovereign countries make us extremely offensive to all members of the Slovenian Army in the Desus Group. Rather, we thank them for their work and their sacrifices. How much drinking water is actually at risk in Slovenia is a professional question. The current calls can thus be seen as a political issue. Those who live in rural areas and we have dealt with drinking water at local level in the past period know that, despite the writings in the Constitution, this is not always self-evident. In the Desus Group we oppose and condemn everything and I must also repeat all the incentives to violence against individuals and groups, intolerance and hate speech. We must be aware that the culture of our communication within this Hall of the National Assembly is evident on the streets of our cities. The rhetoric currently reflected in the National Assembly is foreign to us in the Desus Group. When we speak, we always want to act straight, this is not always going to work, because some people do not see another as their own promotion, and they are also in charge of politics. In the Desus Group, we will listen carefully to all the debates and end up voting as each individual will decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u33	Today's attempt at constitutional charges against the Prime Minister is the sixth in the time of Slovenia's independence. The difficulty and importance of this institution for the vast majority of parliamentary parties is illustrated by the fact that this is the only constitutional action not brought by the SDS party. We are aware that the constitutional charge is most likely not to receive the necessary majority, regardless of the facts and regardless of the arguments, and although it is one of the most important institutions for determining the criminality of political everyday life and the political responsibilities of the highest authorities, the vote will show how far political and other arrangements can be extended and how it is possible to overlook violations of laws and the Constitution. The Institute of Constitutional Accusation Unbound Members are being considered seriously and with caution. All past attempts have been made to achieve the political objectives of one party alone. I am sure that in today's debate, we will receive the mockery of this institution, the diversion of attention, the claim that the opposition is being coerced and the attempts at personal discrediting of the applicants of the constitutional indictment. Nothing new and nothing unexpected will bring the debate of those who will defend the accused Prime Minister. A well-known chain of command, but how else? Sir, absent, Prime Minister, before I go to the content of the constitutional charge, I would like to point out that your policy today is nothing more than a repetition of the old patterns and disputes that have emerged decades and more ago. These samples place Slovenia in the state's position when we ask whether this country and, of course, we are still following with it unity, solidarity, the principle of cooperation and integration, and overcoming political differences for the benefit of citizens and citizens. During the reign of the current government, many years and apparently deep personal offenses are settled. The country's psychosocial and political condition, growing impatience and mistrust among people are a poor road map for the future. Most of the work of this state is carried by the very absent Prime Minister. Slovenia, which is at the threshold of the 30th anniversary of independence and Presidency of the Council of the European Union, deserves much more in a difficult and time-consuming period by marking the epidemic and the important development challenges of anti-virus and post-virus time. Freedom of the media and their independence is, in our opinion, one of the central points of this constitutional accusation. The National Assembly adopted the amendment of the PKP-7 on 29 December last year with the votes of the coalition and the opposition. The clear intention of the legislator was to prevent the collapse of the Slovenian Press Agency and to ensure its independence and independence. Since then, however, we have witnessed an ecclesiastical violation, ignoring and disregarding legislation that stipulates that the STA, regardless of whether or not it has concluded a public service contract with the founder, shall provide funds from the state budget. We are witnessing a show and a burka re-focusing on social networks and in the media and unworthy, even infantile games with corporate documentation. But the point is that the Prime Minister does not respect the will of the legislator, as he does not respect the legislator and as a failure to comply with the legislation. I wonder if this is also the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, who hoped to adopt the law, instead of the Prime Minister. The professional and public opinion of the Slovenian Press Agency is one of the foundations of Slovenia's independence and it is perceived as the backbone of Slovenian journalism, which is considered the fourth branch of government in every free society. The presidents at the time of Janez Janša's rule were already quite something, but the hateful destruction of an organization which is essential for ensuring media freedom and the information sovereignty of Slovenia borders on madness. Mr. Unoccupied Prime Minister, with attempts at financial exhaustion and the subjugation of independent institutions such as the Slovenian Press Agency, you are in violation of the laws adopted by this National Assembly, which is why we should defend ourselves before the Constitutional Court. Public prosecutors, independent and independent under the Constitution and by law. The European Delegated Prosecutors, who are necessary for the establishment and functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, are a second non-voluntary point in the constitutional charge. The waiting of unnamed prosecutors for a government briefing is nearing the scenes of unacceptable waiting periods in health care. The government is not only aware of their appointments because of personal insults and contempt for the President of the Government, not only for the proposed candidates, but also for the prosecutor's institution as such. All calls from the European and the international community are in vain. The Minister of Justice claims that she has done everything in her power and that the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Council and the Ministry of Justice is in accordance with the law. The Vice-President of the Government, in a discussion with the European Commissioner for Justice, is looking for an innovative excuse and refers to the media kidnapping of the whole story and, of course, argues vehemently that Slovenia will resolve this issue on its own. However, the President of the Government, as we hear, orders a decision by the Government to impose a reiteration of the call for the appointment of European prosecutors on the judiciary. All other candidates for appointment to the offices of local prosecutors are waiting in vain for the government to be briefed because, as we say in the discussion, they have no chance of breaking through the personal seat of the Prime Minister. Coalition partners humbly remain silent and quietly buy their existence. It may not be necessary to point out that this is an attempt to prevent an independent part of the judiciary and thus a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, for which the President of the Government should defend himself before the Constitutional Court. Let me conclude with the part of the constitutional charge that most directly touches the health and life of people in Slovenia. At the time that you, the absent Prime Minister of the Government, also led the Ministry of Health, you have decided that Slovenia will not order additional doses of Pfizer and Moderna, because they will not. When your team tried to defend this decision, you stated that you expected more AstraZeneca to be available, which is cheaper. The government you run and the department you ran back then speculated on the price of the vaccine and wanted to save change at the expense of human health. Surprisingly, this same government found tens or even hundreds of millions of euros at the time of the epidemic for projects that could actually wait for the end of the crisis without any major difficulties. Today, we are in a position where according to Dr. Bojana Beović’s advisor, people between 60 and 70 are dying behind a co-ed, and Dr. Beović stresses that these deaths are unnecessary. Preoccupation in Slovenia is lower than previous government forecasts and expectations of the public, especially in these age groups. Many people with AstraZeneca, favoured by the Government, do not want to be vaccinated, justified or not, but this is a fact that needs to be taken into account, partly because of doubts that have arisen around the side effects, and partly because of the ignorance of the delivery of this vaccine. The government's decisions regarding the organisation of vaccination could be marked as a breakdown. Constantly changing the strategy, contradicting the information of the government and the expert group and the speculations already mentioned for the supply of vaccines are important reasons why people, according to Dr. Beović, are now losing their lives in Slovenia. The right to adequate health care for all citizens and citizens and the right to health is enshrined in the Constitution. Your Government has taken decisions that did not follow this provision at the time of the epidemic and that is also why we should defend ourselves before the Constitutional Court. Even though this constitutional accusation that we have on our hands today is probably not possible to reach a sufficient parliamentary majority, it is important. It is important because it shows the reality of the Slovenian political landscape, which is mainly drawn by the absent President of the Government, particularly in the points I have previously highlighted. And these points show how wrong it is to paralyze independent and independent institutions for your own sake and thereby undermine the constitutional principle of sharing power with speculation or wrong decisions and minimize the right to constitutionally guaranteed health care for people. The constitutional charge is therefore justified. In the points that I have listed and highlighted on behalf of the Non-Aligned Members, violations of both the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are evident and evident, so, of course, the Non-Aligned Members will support the constitutional indictment of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u34	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u35	That's a nice hello to you all! Today's indictment, the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the rumours of the left opposition reminds me of the referendums of the 7th Congress of the Union of Communists of Slovenia. Inflated, double-blown, overblown, stupid, without justification, without any real direction or conclusions. That's why I think it's right that today the Prime Minister is not here. It is true that he has obligations in Brussels, which is smart and good for Slovenia, and even if he did not have them, I do not know what he would do here. You don't have to waste time listening to nonsense. The grounds on which the left opposition is building this pointless accusation are, for example, inappropriate dealing with the epidemic. Then go west to the European Union where you have your friends, and tell them why in Europe they falsify data that is better in Slovenia than our newspapers write at home. Go there and tell us why in Europe you lie that certain situations are significantly better than our media shows you want to show them. The fight against the epidemic is good, it is excellent and many European countries follow Slovenia in their work and against the spread of the epidemic and against Covid, etc. But no, you won't admit it, of course, you can't admit it, because the Slovenian media is already holding your stand in your lies and of course you would be overjoyed if not only the President of the Government was removed, but that Slovenia would collapse, and then I don't know where to sell this country. Or maybe the Croats? Yes, there's a lot of trends down there if we look at different origins of different variants and speeches. You're saying that not naming prosecutors is also one of the cases why the President of the Government should go to the Constitutional Court. Why is that? Or is it because he's sticking to the law? Is it because he understands what the law says and does not comment on the law in view of the current situation as you do in the left opposition and your commanders in the background and the uncle in the background and the performers in the media space? Either way, in the field of justice, we have life mandates without any notice that the judge or the prosecutor should be held accountable for his wrong decisions. In Germany, the judge is responsible for the criminal and financial decision, we simply say: “It is human to be wrong” and the train goes on. And now, if anyone wants to change such a matter to determine certain, say, prosecutors under the socialist system, that the prosecutor will be the one who will be liked by some who want to keep the old system alive, that is no longer the case, and if the President of the Government wants to end it, all he has to do is congratulate him. It is true that now the left opposition has the ratings of current prosecutors and judges and so on, but once it will prevail over common sense and honesty despite all and despite the wishes you have. You're also talking about media freedom, there's no media freedom, but here I agree with you. There is no freedom of the media, but there is no freedom of the media for the right political half, the freedom of the media is endless on the left, you can write and lie what you want, and then those paid reporters or writers of certain matters, who usually write them in Ljubljana, translate them into foreign languages in Ljubljana, send them to the west of various left-wing newspapers, these newspapers publish them with their own initials under the article and from Ljubljana more or less the same people discover these articles in foreign newspapers, summarize them and say see what Europe writes about us. However, if those journalists in these lion newspapers asked about Slovenia, they might know where Slovenia is from, they would be harder to speak from where Slovenia is and than when Slovenia is, even harder to ask them to list three places in Slovenia they would no longer know and yet our speculators are citing their articles, because they are not on their articles, as they continue to pursue their own articles that they have sent abroad. You're saying it's terrible because you're not funding the U.S.A. STA is a very necessary institution, it is, but not in such a form, because in such a form no firm would be able to move forward if the director said I wouldn't give any information on how we do business, where money goes and so on. Why should we give money to someone who spends it on his own? Because if I spent it in accordance with the laws, then there would be no problems and I could say, "here are the documents, but look at them," no, there is no such thing, of course, so we need to hide it and our left-wing media will spit after all of this, of course, "look at what he's doing, he doesn't want to give him money." Yeah, well, who's gonna give the money just like that without the papers and without knowing where that money's gonna go? The freedom of the media, however, take a look at what RTV Slovenia does or say Pop TV does, and newspapers such as I know Dnevnik, Work, The evening is trumpets these are socialist trumpets, so I don't know why they put down that inscription in Del because sometimes it was written by proletarians of all countries unite. Let them put it back, and let the other newspapers start using the ones I counted. Ljubljana TV I will just say RTV Slovenia might be better to rename it not to RTV Slovenia, but RT Vodušek Slovenia, because Vodušek is much more precise and exact than RTV Slovenia. What's he doing? What are the editors doing? They're cutting through their mind those posts that they like to give inside those they don't like and they're wiping out and please, is this an independent TV? Don't tell me, of course, that in there the corners of at least a thousand employees who don't know what they're doing or they know what they're doing nothing but others don't know that they're not doing anything, but they're getting nice salaries, of course, and that's what needs to be done and that's why they don't think that the Prime Minister should be given a constitutional charge and not a constitutional charge should go on a lot in the judicial segment, in the cultural segment, in the media segment and where it should be cleaned up not here. We're not going to back this accusation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Daniel Krivec, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We have a constitutional charge before us, President of the Government. The Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions against the President of the Republic is provided in Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this Article may make a reasonable application of the constitutional charges against the President of the Government and the constitutional charges against the Members. The permanent charge must be justified by the evidence of a violation of the Constitution or of laws committed by the accused person in the performance of his or her duties manifestly against a legal act, and the weight must not be a constitutional charge of the Government's destabilisation tool and the creation of a political crisis, which in a particular case is the sole purpose of the parties to the left opposition. The charges which have been notified to the President of the Government have no basis and are not supported by concrete arguments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want citizens and citizens to be familiar with the actual situation and therefore we are answering all charges with clear and unequivocal arguments. The first indictment by Prime Minister Janša did not provide a sufficient number of vaccines. Data on cross-section show that Slovenia is above the European average and among the most successful countries around the world by percentage of the population. This has been achieved despite the fact that former Health Minister Tomaž Gantar, on the basis of the opinion of the Vaccination Advisory Group, ordered mainly Astra Zenica, which was presented as the fastest and cheapest but supplies only one quarter of the contractual quantities. After the resignation of Minister Gantard and the temporary takeover of the Ministry of Health by Janez Janša, we have further elected almost 1.5 million more vaccines of BioNTech-Pfizer, which allows us the current over-average rate of vaccination and, most importantly, the additional vaccines provided in the first place by the Prime Minister Janez Janša will allow us to ensure that the adult population is sufficiently rescinded. As you know, in Slovenia, mass vaccination is carried out with all vaccines, the response is very good with such a rate of vaccination and citizen participation and citizens could enter the green phase in June, which would in fact mean the release of all measures and the return to normal life. Second charge. Prime Minister Janez Janša destroys the Slovenian Press Agency. Criticisms expressed in relation to the specific reporting of the media, including RTV Slovenia or STA by the Prime Minister of the Government, cannot in any case be considered an attack on media freedom and the independence of the press. Freedom of expression is a right that belongs to all the Government and its representatives. The government did not interfere with the resources of RTV Slovenia, did not affect its programming and editorial autonomy, nor did it influence or interfere with the personnel decisions of RTV Slovenia. As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and UKOM have repeatedly stressed, they respect the agreement concluded between UKOM and the State. The government's communication office is 27. 1. 2021 fulfilled all obligations to the Slovenian Press Agency in accordance with the public service management contract. In the SDS we are concerned about the situation in which the Slovenian Press Agency is being printed by individual STA monitors and its Director Bojan Veselinović. Despite the call for the signing of a new contract to enable the legal financing of the obligations to be carried out by the STA in accordance with the STA Act, Director Veselinović persistently rejects the agreement with UKOM as a representative of the founder, while UKOM still sends the accounts to UKOM. Despite warnings that UKOM since 1. 1. 2021 with STA no longer in business relationship, Director Veselinović sent accounts for alleged public service management to UKOM. As a result of the above facts, UKOM has also refused to pay for the services provided. In the SDS Group we support the UKOM requirement for the transparent functioning of the STA. The President of the Government, Janez Janša, shall act in accordance with all laws and other legal acts, which shall also apply to the Director of the UKOM mag. He's making a mess of Urbania. Third charge. The President of the Government is pressing the prosecution and does not want to appoint state prosecutors and to be familiar with the election of candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its President did not intervene in the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, nor did they send to the National Assembly proposals for laws which would interfere with the independence of the judiciary. At the hearing, we had a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, where it is a matter of adapting to European legislation. The claim that the Government has only a formal role to play following the appointment of prosecutors. That's not true either. The reading is groundless and does not hold. The appointment of state prosecutors in accordance with Article 34 of the Public Prosecutor's Act does not merely constitute a formal application without substantive meaning. On the contrary. That the role of the Government is not such is based on the fact that a decision must be issued on the appointment of the Attorney General, which may also be rejected. This has also been confirmed by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its 2013 decision, which states that when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not elect a candidate for whom the State Prosecutor's Council considers, on the basis of a final opinion, that it is professionally qualified and that it also agrees with the competent minister, to explain the reasons for its decision. The delay in appointing state and delegated prosecutors harms the reputation of Slovenia and the poorer prosecution of crime. This is also groundless and not true. During the 10 months of last year, 15 state prosecutors were appointed by this Government, which was significantly more than they were appointed throughout 2012, where 12 were appointed, in 2013, 9, 2014 11 appointed, in 2016 5 appointed, in 2017 7, in 2018 13 appointed. Procrastination of the selected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor. This is also groundless and not true. By the end of March, only 12 countries out of 22 had submitted a proposal for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. The European chief prosecutor is 7. 4. 2021 proposed 1 for the date of operation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. 6. 2021. As regards the level of knowledge of the working language in the European Prosecutor's Office, the law follows the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office of 30. 9. 2020, which defines English as the working language for operational and administrative activities. This requires both the European and the European Delegated Prosecutor to have a level of knowledge of the C1 Joint European Language Framework, which means a level at which a person can effectively and adaptably use the language for professional, learning and other purposes and is able to express himself clearly, structuredly and in detail. The claim that the President of the Government and the executive branch are exerting pressure on the autonomy and autonomy of the Attorney General. The reading is groundless and does not hold. The letter from the President of the Government is in no way contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but is part of the system of brakes and balances. The letter from the President of the Government did not interfere in any way with the exercise of the legal powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, their constitutional and legal autonomy. The legal powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, their legal independence, are intact and therefore the findings of the applicants of the constitutional indictment are entirely unfounded. Political pressure and pressure on the Attorney General. This is also groundless and not true. The State Prosecutor's Office, a specific state prosecutor, has functional autonomy and functional autonomy in the sense that no one can prescribe for him how to conduct a concrete procedure. However, if the President of the Government, who is the head of the executive branch, describes to the Attorney-General his situation and the view of a general case which is constitutionally sensitive in this country, it is not an intervention in the division of power. This is not about unconstitutional conduct and creating any danger. Neither the Constitution nor any law prohibits the President of the Government from addressing his writings and opinions to the chairman of another body. Inciting violence against women, intolerance and hate speech. It's about reports and posts on Twitter. The allegations in question in the proposal for a constitutional indictment are misleading, flat-rate and unfounded. The findings in the constitutional charge that the President of the Government should promote violence against women, intolerance and hate speech are unfounded, as they are based on misinterpretation of the right to freedom of expression and, in particular, the freedom of political expression on the one hand and the prohibition of the so-called hate speech on the other. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 39 that freedom of expression, speech and public expression is guaranteed and that everyone can freely spread his or her conscience and opinions. So in Slovenia we have the freedom of expression, which applies to all different thinkers. The freedom of expression protected by Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 10 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights has a special position in the system of constitutional rights, as it provides public debate on socially important topics, which is essential for the effective functioning of democracy. Although this right can also be restricted, the assessment of the justification of the restriction must always take into account its specific importance. There is not a single case in the constitutional indictment in which the President of the Government would carry out prohibited and legally sanctioned hate speech. As an example of the prohibited promotion of violence, intolerance and hate speech, it is by no means possible to count merely the publication of television, thus reviving it as the purpose of such behaviour is completely different. Revenge is not necessarily about agreeing with content, but primarily about spreading its content with a view to further public debate, which is only the essence of freedom of expression. It is therefore not possible to consider the conduct of publication or reprisal as such as promotion or dissemination, which is an essential element of the prohibition of hate speech. The President of the Government has merely exercised his constitutionally protected right to respond critically and, where necessary, to media releases and statements relating to social networks, in particular if they contain unfounded accusations or have political or social significance. As the President of the Government of Politics, his freedom of expression also includes the right of political expression, which, according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, enjoys special protection. We have always defended women's rights in our party and in the parliamentary group. Moreover, it was in our parliamentary group, of which John Janša was also a member, that we requested the signing of the Istanbul Convention on the Rights of Women. We have also never, nor our President, encouraged intolerance and hate speech. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not the ones who called for violent protests at the time of the epidemic, and we are not the ones who would ever call for unrest and disrespect for measures. Our members were repeatedly attacked because of their political beliefs. Even on public RTV, which should be impartial and impartial in reporting and respecting the equality of all people, signs of the death of Janshism appeared. Our members and our client face discrimination against the stickers entry into SDS prohibited. The fact that our President, Mr Janez Janša, is the one who encourages violence, intolerance and hate speech is absurd. Fifth indictment, the President of the Government is responsible for the illegal prohibition of the referendum on investments in the Slovenian Army and violations of the Constitutional Court's decisions. In accordance with the first indent of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a legislative referendum shall not be permitted to be published in laws, in urgent measures to ensure the defence of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The obvious acts do not have any specific registration of infringements, both of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and of the laws, and represent only a review of the procedure for the adoption of ZIPRS and other acts adopted by the National Assembly, not by the Government or even less, President of the Government. In this part, the proposal for a constitutional indictment does not fulfil the constitutional condition that the actions recorded would be committed in the exercise of the office of President of the Government. In democratic countries, including the Republic of Slovenia, power is exercised directly and through elections, in accordance with the principle of the division of power into the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution. In accordance with the principle of the rule of law and the principle of legality, individual acts and acts of public authorities must be based on law or legal provision. It is clear from the basic constitutional provisions that a violation of the Constitution or the law cannot occur if the exercise of the office of President of the Government is carried out within and on the basis of law. Investments in the Slovenian Army are investments in the defence of the state and its security. We are also committed to increasing investment in the Slovenian Army through the signing of international treaties and the entry into the NATO Union. The previous governments of contractual obligations in the Union did not fulfil them, and the current Government takes international commitments seriously, with respect and responsibility. Let us also note that the situation in the Slovenian Army has been completely inappropriate in the last ten years. Our army is not ready for war, and in its time it is only conditionally operational. In the SDS, we respect our soldiers and soldiers, respect their decision to serve their homeland and ensure that they are adequately equipped to feel safe and adequately supported in their service. We will not and cannot agree to additional cuts in the budget for the Slovenian Army as proposed in the left opposition. Security is certainly one of the pillars of each country and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that it is essential to invest in the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. The charge, Prime Minister Janša, endangers pure drinking water. Article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees everyone the right to drinking water. No act of law which has been dealt with in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in breach of this constitutional provision. Moreover, with the Water Act proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, drinking water in Slovenia is further protected. The Ministry of Environment and Space has included in the changes to the law a focus on damage to coastal land and thus additional protection of water. Industrial buildings will now no longer be able to build on coastal land. For each intervention in the coastal zone it will be necessary to obtain water consent from the Water Directorate, which will not be issued in the event of negative impacts on water and the environment. So far, the Water Act has allowed the construction of buildings in public and private use in the coastal areas of private villas and even industrial plants. The same law also provides additional funds for watercourse regulation, which is crucial for all flood areas where natural disasters caused by increased water damage. The law also seeks to further protect drinking water, coastal belts and biodiversity. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this time the left opposition is trying to use the Institute of Constitutional Accusation in its struggle for power. In these difficult times, when all our powers and powers of the government are directed towards solving the epidemiological crisis and relaunching the economy, we once again call on all opposition parties to cooperate, dialogue and find the best solutions for Slovenia and its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Brane Golubovic, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u39	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I should be followed by the Prime Minister and his support, his work, his conduct and his actions, the ministerial team. At least this was the case in the history of Slovenia when the right side filed constitutional charges against the Prime Minister, the left-centred governments. Thus, in a democracy that respected Article 3 of the Constitution, which had just been mentioned, the division of power was legislative, executive, judicial. No one can take over the other. That's how it was. There was no one behind me today, and there was a constitutional charge today, and it was possible to deal with it tomorrow, Friday, Monday or Tuesday. The LMŠ would accept any day when the Prime Minister had time, and there is still no one, because no one took the time to try to comply with the National Assembly. And this is the cooperation, colleagues and colleagues who have you full of cooperation. However, when it comes to showing respect for the national assembly, the Members, and the people who elected these Members, there is no such respect. This shows the attitude of this government towards the coalition members as well. You're being evaluated, in fact, you're just a tool to achieve your goals. It's nothing new for this government. This right - hand government quickly introduced its new normality, which is far from actual normality. In this good year, we have actually had the opposite of normality in the country. We've been given democracy by the example of Hungary or Poland. When public services and when people were dealing with the epidemic, the government gradually, however, apparently introduced an autonomous way of leading the country and began to establish a state according to the SDS, according to the New Slovenia measure, according to the new SMC. Saving the epidemic was not the priority of this government, let them say what they wanted, not at the beginning, not in the autumn and not today. The objective is clear, by creating disorder and confusion in society and by constantly misleading, by destroying and humiliating fundamental democratic institutions, by decommissioning the public sector, by subjugating and destroying independent media and by negative human resources selection, the government wants to achieve that no one else is trusted in this country. When the country at the bottom is burned, if you want, the Prime Minister will be able to build a beautiful new world of his own accord, in the image of the SDS and also New Slovenia, which allows or supports all of this freely and for the sake of the realization of its own interests. Part of this strategy for the destruction of our country is also the destruction of the rule of law or the non-compliance with the Constitution and laws. Minister Hojs's resignation, which has never occurred since the Prime Minister did not open the envelope with his resignation, as well as his opening or non-opening of envelopes, was known, and thus violated Article 115 of the Constitution of Slovenia. But the Constitution and the laws this Government violates constantly, without a bad conscience, but not by mistake, deliberately violates them after the decree of the Prime Minister of the Government, who believes that by taking power the state and the people have gained ownership. The same kind of power and property. It's a mistake. You're wrong here. He's wrong today. There's no equation here. In the constitutional indictment of the President of the Government, we have cited three current and specific violations of the Constitution and laws in the LMŠ. First time. The President of the Government, by blocking the financing of the public service, is in breach of Articles 3 and 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act and 66 of the PKP 7, which prescribes compulsory financing of the STA irrespective of the conclusion of the contract. The result of this violation is government exhaustion and the result of this government exhaustion is that the STA is on the verge of destruction and flooding, so today the STA is assisted by people with donations, businesses, journalists, foreign press agencies. My colleagues and your colleagues are even aware of how insane this is. Where did the President of the Government take us with his supporters and supporters in the government and this National Assembly? What price does this country pay just because some want or want to complete a mandate? The financing of the public service of the STA or any other public service is not a reflection of good will or service, but this is a legal duty and the law of the PKP 7 was adopted in December in this Chamber under the Government of Janez Janša by this National Assembly, and this Government does not, does not, does not, does not, does not wish to do so for six months. And this is the difference between SDS and New Slovenia on the one hand and us in LMŠ on the other. We believe in the LMŠ in high political standards, as we have demonstrated in our mandate. We believe in autonomy, in autonomous, quality and credible media, which are an important part of every mature democracy. On the contrary, in the government, you believe that the state and power are your property, and so are the media, all social systems. What relation to the media this Government has, is also reflected this month, when the Ministry of Culture has five radio stations of particular importance and all the central logs on the public tender without financial support. Of course, no complaint is possible. A similar gap between the LMŠ on the one hand and the SDS and NSI on the other is also in respect of the independence of the judiciary. I'm just going to focus on the D.A.'s office. In the LMŠ, we are aware of the importance of power-sharing for democracy. Some of the coalition spoke about this today. We believe that the dispersion of power to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities prevents the supremacy of an idea of one party or one branch of power, so much so that the prosecution is also autonomous in its work, but the President of the Government cannot, otherwise, block the appointment of state prosecutors and government briefings with two European prosecutors. The two Delegated Prosecutors who have been selected on the call meet all the conditions and have been waiting for six months, six months, six months, six months only to inform the Government, not to appoint the Government. They're not waiting for the government to be appointed. They're not waiting for the government to choose. They are waiting for a briefing from the Government on 26 November 2020. And the European Public Prosecutor's Office, whose main task is to investigate fraud with European funds and excessive VAT fraud, is to get this memo from the Government. The European Union loses more than €50 billion annually with these frauds. We do not recognize that these two prosecutors are not members of the SDS as, for example, a judge of the jury in Celje when they wanted to decide on the trial against the Prime Minister of the Government, who is also the president of their party. Perhaps in this there is a reason why the Government does not turn on the green light to two prosecutors who are not, which is quite subordinate to its own and even less to the President of the Government. By the way, I would like to remind you that the President of the Government is in violation of Articles 2, 39 and 135 of the Constitution and Articles 3, 7 and 10 of the State Prosecutors Act. If just two observations point to the subordination of all social systems in the country and the third observation in the constitutional action that we have written down in the LMŠ demonstrates the complete inability of the President of the Government and the Government to solve complex problems, it is in particular a solution or not to solve the epidemic and its consequences. Part of this is the organization of vaccination and the procurement of vaccines. Since last autumn, we have listened to the importance of vaccination so that we can relax life in the country, but these were just words. The government has also prepared for vaccination as bad as the second wave of the epidemic, even though it may be because the good two months President of the Government was also the Minister of Health, but the consequences are and will be disastrous for both people and society. The vaccination strategy has changed at least five times over the past six months, communication is unconstitutional, the vaccination ordering application has not been implemented for another six months after it has already met. The confusion is perfect, the vaccines remain some are even discarded. In December, when the Prime Minister was also Prime Minister for Health, Slovenia did not take advantage of the possibility of ordering an additional 900 000 doses of Pfizer and Moderna vaccine. The President of the Government not only tweeted by his unfaithful conduct at work, and this was persecuted under Article 258 of the Penal Code, in violation of Article 51 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Dear Members and Members, these are only three concrete cases of violations of the Constitution and laws for which the President of the Government and the whole Government are responsible, as well as supporters in the National Assembly, who do not make all this absolutely critical to the Government, allow, allow. In a situation where the level of political culture is high, this would be enough to bring down the government. But most of us have been silent for too long, hiding and cheating. Today, in the National Assembly, we do not decide on our own violation of specific articles of the Constitution and laws by the President of the Government, but today we also decide if the constitutional charge fails, I believe that whether this Government in the National Assembly will have 46 votes or more. Whether the majority in this National Assembly supports the President of the Government and the Government in destroying the country, its democratic standards, independent and autonomous institutions and the rule of law. Whether the majority supports attacks on the media and the political subjugation of supervisory and repressive authorities, the acquisition of state-owned enterprises, the destruction of public education, public health, culture and small economy or entrepreneurship. After today, there will be no going back. Those who vote in favour of the constitutional indictment will clearly show that they believe in democracy and the rule of law. On the other hand, those who vote against the constitutional charge or abstain or hide themselves will also make it clear that they do not object to their failure to respect the laws and the Constitution to support this government and all its controversial actions and actions. We cannot ban this from you, nor do we want to ban it from you, but let me be clear, after this vote no one will be able to hide and deceive again, black on white will be who is in this National Assembly of Opposition and who is the coalition, not the words, the actions are the ones that count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Next one's gonna be a mag. Bojana Muršič presented the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In Slovenia, and there is an important consensus of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a social contract, which determines our way of co-existence, fundamental rights and freedoms, and in general the functioning of our country. The Constitution is a compass of goals and values that determine the direction and image of Slovenia. True, we may never have agreed on how to implement individual constitutional provisions, but regardless of our differences, there has always been a common belief that our country's fathers managed to integrate the foundations of the value of the Slovenian people into the Constitution almost 30 years ago. The Constitution tells us clearly that Slovenia is a democratic republic in which the power of the people is that it is a legal and social state exercising political, civil, social and other human rights. That it is an independent state, but a firm part of the European Union, that it is faithful to international law as an obligation to peaceful and respectful coexistence between peoples and nations. This country's most important book is clearly about what we are and what we are trying to do, how democracy should live. We are all committed to respecting and implementing the Constitution, all of us, especially those who are called upon by people to decide on their behalf where the greatest political power is focused. The Constitution therefore provides mechanisms to protect constitutional values, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms right from the rule of law. Your Honor! We believe that the proposal for a constitutional indictment is justified by the Social Democrats. That is why we are responsible for protecting people today from the arbitrary behaviour of the current government, because despite his oath, the President of the Government has violated at least 15 articles of the Constitution, including the first three, which state that Slovenia is a democratic republic, that it is a legal and social state, that the state of all citizens and citizens in which the authority of the people is exercised. These three articles contain only the essence of our country, and the facts show that the President of the Government by his actions threatens this very essence, including human rights, his dignity and freedoms. The proposal for a constitutional indictment clearly explains that the President of the Government has repeatedly encouraged intolerance by his actions or not to endanger public well-being, endangering human health. In addition, a list of numerous violations of the laws, including the Penal Code, the State Prosecutor's Office Act, the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Press Agency Act, should be added. This clearly shows that we have a willful power that does not take into account anything, not the Constitution, not the laws, but at least the people in the pursuit of our political objectives. In the 1930s, we have experienced many things in Slovenia alone. But we have never and never witnessed such eclectic violations of the Constitution by the Prime Minister and coalition ignorance of it at the most critical time since Slovenia's independence. The epidemic has awakened the best in many people. Thousands of doctors, nurses, nurses, shopkeepers, policemen, firefighters worked night and day to help others. But some of the hard times have awakened the worst. Despite warnings, the ruling policy continues to beat the basic values of our society. It even went so far as to make the daily practice of the ruling government with the Prime Minister at the helm more and more dissatisfaction and fear among people. The constitutional charge goes not only to be seen as a political document, but in a given situation the Parliament's greatest responsibility is to firmly protect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Protect against arbitrary and arbitrary behaviour of the current government and its President. Let arguments win today, not political interests. Let's do what's right. Let us support the constitutional charge and protect Slovenia from the deliberate realization of its fundamental constitutional values. We will also unanimously support the Social Democrats following this constitutional accusation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u43	Thank you very much and very much! On Sunday, a public opinion survey showed that this government recorded record low support among the public, worse for a percentage of the percentage point than the government of Mira Cerar just before it resigned. It's not a coincidence. We can all see and 70% of people probably agree that Slovenia is currently at the lowest point in the last 30 years. The lowest points in the last 30 years, which we have achieved due to the combination of governmental appetites, incompetence and oblivion of people who are drunk with power and who act like some elderly teens at the age of 60 and over, and do not show any minimum standards, let alone any responsibility to the functions they perform or to their citizens. Interesting irony, but it is probably not a coincidence that this morning I tried to help myself in writing my position with the electronic version of the Slovenian Constitution is my website, where the constitution was published, pisrs.si, directed me to the site Hello.gov.si, on which it was written instead of the Constitution, the web content you requested currently is not available, we apologize. Here we are. There is no constitutional principle that this government has not walked in recent months. There is no democratic protector that this government would not mock. And there is no democratic standard that this government or its most visible representatives would be willing to abide by. These are the reasons why, in the opposition, we have decided to initiate a constitutional indictment against the Prime Minister under Article 109 of the Constitution, which, of course, is a serious matter. This is about proposing to the National Assembly to propose to the Constitutional Court that, due to the serious violations of the Constitution and the rule of law in Slovenia, the Prime Minister be dismissed. This is a tool of the opposition used in the extreme case, and the case is extreme and we use it with all seriousness. But let's go straight to where the problems are. First, the D.A. and the judges. Much has already been said in previous opinions about how the Government is blocking the appointment of delegated state prosecutors; how the European Commission must appeal to the Government to remove, however, the blockade on the appointment of delegated European prosecutors; how pressure is being placed on judges, for example, those who have ruled that there is no threat of death in transparent "death of Janshism", as the President of the Government absurdly states; how the courts are being discredited or the Constitutional Court every time it judges it in a way that is not at the will of the Government. None of this is new or surprising. For all those who have been monitoring and knowing the operation of the SDS party for some time now, things are quite clear – it is the only party in Parliament who stumbles upon the appointment of judges when we have this on the agenda here. Everyone else is aware that this is a remnant, the rest of a certain order; that we are practically the only country in Europe that still confirms judges in Parliament. The only client who takes advantage of this and hunts witches when a judge is politically unpopular is the SDS. At the same time, it is the only party who, as I say, has overcome enough obstinacy to stand before a court and protest for months at a time. Can you imagine anyone on the left or the middle would afford something like that? Can you imagine anyone in any other European country allowing themselves to do so? Of course, such things happen, but usually in some Belarus or some other regime that you do not like in your language, but in fact you imitate all of its moments. Then we have the media here. Article 1 of the Constitution states: “Slovenia is a democratic republic.” This is supposed to be the cornerstone of this country and the arrangement in which we live. And you will not find a political theorist who will not agree that the foundations of democracy are free media that allow for free public debate. How this authority behaves to the media: journalists who do not like are declaring prostitutes; the media they do not like should be the biggest national media led by the STA, which you do not want to be one of the foundations of Slovenian statehood, or RTV, which you will declare to be liars. You are not the only one in history, we know who has declared the media “lügenpresse”, you imitate good historical practices. And we must not be blinded, nor is there any balance of space here or anything like that, which John Janš and his subjects are rambling about. This is what Janez Janša says in his own words, “discreditation first, then liquidation”. And we've already seen the liquidation. We have reached a point where we have to – be careful – for the Slovenian Press Agency, for the media in a country that has, by law and function, 30 years since its independence, the task of collecting information that is then used by all other media in the production of the news, we had to collect literally solidarity support for this medium last week or two weeks ago, for this medium to survive. We're here. You've led us to this point. And you call this a normal state. Next, civil society and protests. Article 42 of the Constitution states: “The right to assembly and association, to public assemblies is a constitutional norm.” Absolutely, the third paragraph of this Article states that the legal restrictions on these rights are permissible if protection against the spread of communicable diseases so requires. But you have been suppressing any public gatherings or protests for a year, no matter what the state of the country’s virological situation is, and no matter how long ago scientists around the world have said that there is virtually no danger of infection. German science is unanimous – 0.1% of the possibility of infection exists outdoors. Nevertheless, on Friday we saw a defeat over the protests, and we were able to follow double standards all the time. While we could normally visit, say, the Ljubljana market, there were a couple of 100 people there, maybe even a thousand times, that was no problem, and the problem was if you joined a handful of five people who held a banner in front of parliament. That's when you got a hundred percent fine, not a little one. People get 400 Euros like this, 800 Euros over there in Maribor, who spoke in a protest where they demanded the opening of schools, received a penalty of 4 000 Euros and is now on trial for this. [[…]] Please! The right to assembly and protest, which is a fundamental constitutional democratic right, you have also succeeded in bringing it to a point where it is no longer self-sufficient, but we will not let it be taken away. Then we have the principle of the legality of the rule of law. There's an interesting story here, too. We are at present far from being able to see this country as a legal country. We have a click on the authorities that can afford everything, we have all the others who have been subjected to a completely arbitrary attempt to delegate laws, norms, regulations and ultimately also penalties for one year. If I give you a case I've used before. Minister of the Interior Hoys calmly took off his mask in Parliament because he said I couldn't breathe without it. Did he get a ticket? He didn't get a ticket. Government spokesman Jelko Kacin almost took off his mask in front of the camera, and then went to the camera, and he said, "Let's go make some fun." Did he get a ticket? He didn't get a ticket. Milan Krek, head of the National Institute for Public Health, went quietly, when we all had to wear masks, but "tank" without, he said, "Yes, I forgot a little. Did he get a ticket? He didn't get a ticket. Who got the punishment? The punishment was given to the family that ate the croissant outside. The sentence was given to that poor man who sat on the steps of the Ljubljana capital during his transportation and ate a burek. And they got 400 euros in fines. And then I asked the Prime Minister how he commented on these double standards. He said, yes, they weren't wearing a mask. They weren't wearing a mask, they're justifiable. And he still hasn't shown us how to have an outdoor burrito with a mask to understand each other. It's just an illustration of what this country will look like if we let this government do its job. We will have people who will be allowed to live also above the law, over the Constitution, and if you want, over God and all others, who will be subjected to some arbitration, persecution, discredit, disqualification and possibly political liquidation. You're taking us to a world like this. Then we have here, in the tightening up, we've been reading lately that some political party should just be banned. This is no surprise to us, because these are the old moves of authoritarian leaders all over the world, the history is full of them when, because of the incompetence of things, you begin to get out of hand when your coalition breaks, when you don't have a majority in Parliament, when everyone sees your incompetence, when Covid kills 4,000 people when everyone sees you breaking the constitutional order when 70% of the public opposes you do what? - You start looking for sinful goats, you start looking for internal enemies, you start declaring civil society organizations a fifth column. [[?]] You start pushing opposition parties to act unconstitutionally and start scaring them with civil war. That's what you do, and you're not the first to do it. Read yourself the history of the 20th century, and you'll find a bunch of such sad stories, but don't worry, we know this history too well, we know what the early Duce looks like. [[?]] Italy, we know too well what Germany looked like in 1933, we know too well what Salazar's Portugal looked like, what Frank's Spain looked like or, if you want to, what Orbán's Hungary looks like today or Lukashenko's Belarus to let you do it in Slovenia. You will not, no matter what the outcome of the constitutional charge is today, but I will tell you that what I am describing is by no means the fault of one person, the one currently taking the position of Prime Minister of the Government. It's that 46 plus a few people that you let this man do what he does. To bring down the media space, to listen to the judiciary, to practically subjugate the police, to listen to the public assembly of civil society organizations, to persecute the culturers, and now, after the new opposition, you're all allowing it, and you're the so-called ex-centre, I'm watching it all. You are the one who makes this possible, and if not today will come another beautiful sunny day, when you will have to take responsibility for your actions before the people who elected you and finally before history. You're the one who's allowed to drag Slovenia in the last 30 years into a state we're about to repair for years. This country, thanks to you, I'm going to make an ugly statement for the end of the day. Thank you very much. In the Group of the Left, of course, we will support the constitutional action.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u44	Thank you. Next, Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u45	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Members of the National Assembly almost two months ago received a proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court, signed and filed by members of the left opposition. The constitutional charge before the Constitutional Court or the so-called so-called court is a very serious constitutional legal instrument that cannot be used easily. [[Incomprehensible]] In Novi Slovenije we have expressed this position several times in the past even when we were part of the opposition. The instrument of constitutional action before the Constitutional Court is not a classic instrument of political struggle as it may be considered to be an interpolation or a constructive non-trust. In the case of a constitutional charge, it is a matter of identifying very serious infringements against constitutional law or state regulation and, in addition to political responsibility, it is also a special form of criminal responsibility. In view of the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government, the alleged violations of the law and the Constitution, which we have on the table today, it is quite clear that it is only a new attempt at political treatment followed by the recent failure of constructive non-trust. Not only does the Government work legally and in accordance with the Constitution of the Government, but it also works very effectively and which is more important for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. This is what the great crowd of citizens and citizens are telling us with their eyes, but they never get the microphone offered. This government began its mandate under severe crisis conditions at the time, there was no one to rule. In the National Assembly, the first package of assistance to people and the economy was brought within a hundred hours of the oath. In these circumstances, she has prepared 8 intervention packages to deal with Covid-19. We do not claim that the proposals were ideal, we do not claim, but we cannot deny the results. Preparations for the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union are in full swing. The intensity of diplomatic activity is at a record high level. Slovenia has been adopted in the European Union and is valued at last. Finally, her word is heard and taken into account because her word had not been heard before and now some of the results on the measures I have mentioned. The decline in economic activity of 5.5% of GDP in last year was significantly lower than the forecast at the same time than the average of the euro area countries where the average decline was 6.6% of GDP. The European Commission for Slovenia, in 2021, predicts a largely over-average economic growth of 4.9% of GDP. In 2022, the forecast is 5.1% of GDP. It follows that Slovenia is breaking through the first quarter of the most successful countries of the European Union. Unemployment of 4.8% was among the lowest in the European Union in March, with an average of 7.3%. By means of measures, the government has helped to preserve 300,000 potentially lost jobs. A few more numbers, however, require the thanks of Slovenian policy to our entrepreneurial and rational and diligent citizens and citizens, who have just as much meaning for this item in the agenda as last year's snow. Let's see. According to preliminary data, tax revenues in the period January – April 2021 are higher by 15,7 % compared to last year and by 5,4 % compared to 2019 when we did not have a crisis. According to preliminary data FURS, VAT revenues in April 2021 were higher by almost 97% compared to last April and by 27.1% higher compared to April 2019 when we did not have an epidemic. The budget surplus in April is a good EUR 40 million. These are numbers that indicate optimism. Key measures included subsidisation of waiting for work and shorter working hours, compensation for workers who remain at home due to the protection of children or higher forces and remuneration during quarantine. More than 260 thousand people were involved in the job waiting and working time alone. For all measures on the labour market, we have so far earmarked more than €580 million. In addition to raising the minimum wage under the existing law, the Government has also assisted the economy or employers and has provided assistance by taking over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. The measure is implemented by more than 8 000 200 employers. If the government hadn't done it, they'd have union protests. Now that the government has helped pay off a certain minimum wage by law, we will have union protests. It is worth reminding us that the procedures for applying for work at home have also been simplified. A number of solidarity allowances were accepted and paid for various groups of the population, older people, families, self-employed students. An additional award was introduced for workers who work directly with people infected with COVID-19. In addition to the regular coordination of pensions and the regular addition, the Government has twice allocated a solidarity allowance of €70 million. We must not forget the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions last December by 2%, a total of approximately €94 million at the annual level. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs only allocates 5 times more European and other public funds to the care of the elderly during the ministry of Janez Cigler King than at any government since 2008. For the construction of five new homes for the elderly and the completion of two existing ones, almost EUR 30 million is provided in the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia. EUR 26 million is provided for additional employment in social security institutions, income-loss funds, the homes of elderly citizens due to empty beds, the reimbursement of compulsory protective equipment as well as the establishment of an external red zone and the payment of allowances to employees. At this point, it is worth recalling that the last home for the elderly from the budget was built in 2005. We were there at the time. Until the current government, the issue of the care of the elderly has been ignored inhumanely. This Government is also aware of the importance of encouraging family policy. At the time of the ministry of Janez Cigler King, most funds have been made available for family action in the last eight years, with a circulation of €600 million in 2020. This government is aware that the best social policy is the policy that creates new well-paid jobs. And that education that trains young people to use accessible knowledge. And families are favored by the environment. Unemployment just dropped 78 grand. In this mandate, the government adheres to the slogan “building Slovenia”. For the first time in the history of the budget, more than a billion euro is allocated to infrastructure. Last year, however, the EU's maximum share of funding for the 2014-2020 financial perspective was reached in terms of its planned funding of 90%. More than € 101 million of 112 planned has been exhausted. At the time of the ministry of Jernej Vrtovac, the ban on overcoming heavy goods vehicles on the A1 motorway was finally established for better flow and greater safety. Finally, e-vignettes are introduced. It is also worth mentioning the acquisition of land for the development of Luka Koper, the construction of the far-off Circovce-Pince, the first shovel of the third development axis in Gaberka, the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding concerning the construction of the passenger centre of Ljubljana. Finally, the construction of the second track began. The government novelty of the Road Transport Act, which has already been discussed in the National Assembly on the Infrastructure Committee, finally opens the door to forms, new forms of transport using digital platforms, Hesh Tech Smart Slovenia. I do not have enough time available, colleagues and colleagues, to list many other infrastructure projects that take place at different ends of our country. Otherwise, citizens know best where and what they are building. Slovenia is recording record at European level in the growth of construction. During the previous years, the Slovenian army was neglected. There were negative estimates, human resources trends were poor. At the time of this government and Defence Minister Matthew Tonin, negative human resources trends have finally turned. Some bureaucratic obstacles have been removed. The reputation of the Slovenian Army has been restored in public. The status of the Slovenian soldier rose after 45. The required two-thirds majority has adopted a new law on defence, which has waited decades for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Among other things, the Ministry has developed an attractive, renewed concept of voluntary military service, which is an excellent marriage for the continuation of good human resources trends in the future. This government is doing its best to modernise the Slovenian Army. However, we will not be able to do this if we do not invest any more money in the military or better in our security. At the proposal of the Government, a law was adopted in the National Assembly on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in 2021-2026. This interrupted the existing multi-annual anti-constitutional situation in which, according to domestic and international professional assessments, the Slovenian Armed Forces was unable to provide defence to Slovenia in its territory, contrary to Article 128 of the Constitution. This was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court and rejected the argument of the left opposition led by Luke Mesec. The Constitutional Court therefore rejected the arguments set out in point 5 of the Constitutional indictment, which we are considering today. Drinking water. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the time to say good-bye to the left governments and it is time to implement the water supply projects led by this government. Finally, the Goričko water supply, or the Pomur water supply, is finally completed, and finally, during the time of the government, Goričko will also be given drinking water. Finally. As we celebrate this year, colleagues and colleagues, the 30th anniversary of the birth of our country is also worth recalling that the government has introduced a new law on the special rights of victims in the 1991 war for Slovenia. The law brings compensation to children, spouses and parents of Slovenian heroes who have given their lives for our Slovenia. The opinion of the College of the President of the National Assembly was rejected by the left opposition in the vote on the procedure in favour of a speedy examination of the law that had been pending for 30 years. [[Incomprehensible]] Let him understand who he is. This Government has already introduced a package of tax relief laws into the parliamentary legislative procedure. Our taxpayers were waiting for a serious reduction in their burdens. What am I talking about? I am talking about a concrete increase in the annual income of a citizen or a citizen. I am talking about the Income Act, which, if it will be adopted already in 2022 with an increase in the general wage of a citizen or a citizen earning more than €260, I am speaking for those who have an average salary. In 2023,520 euros more, in 2024,780 more and in 2025, 1000 euros more. If we do not do so in the coming years, we will lose more young educated people, and they will leave Slovenia. At the annual level, it leaves Slovenia about 15,000 people, but some obviously want to do so and they are promoting and publicly opposed to tax evasion. This seems to be possible only in Slovenia. The government proposal would also increase the incentives for businesses that accept apprentices or hire young people in practice to introduce job facilitations for people with disabilities and incentives to promote green and digital transitions. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the time available today, we can only list some of the achievements of this Government in its 14-month operation. The government, in its efforts to improve Slovenia, of course, respects Slovenia's legal order, but it is even more important that this Government, in its work, proves that the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenian laws and the Slovenian state not only respects it, but also respects it. The proposed constitutional charges in the New Slovenia Group will therefore not be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič will be presented as the last position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, the National Assembly will decide on the 7th proposal for a constitutional indictment against the President of the Government. The opposition parties inform him of violations of several articles of the Constitution and of laws, which I will devote nine hours of debate to whether the Government has really taken all the powers to manage the covid-19 epidemic and whether or not it has ordered all vaccines against covid-19. There are also pressures on the media and the prosecution, and you could also list them, and you will do so in any case by proposing a constitutional indictment. But it is true that the facts tell another story. The situation that occurred more than a year ago was not imagined, nor did we help create them, so we did not want to take the accounts for them humbly and wait for the charity of the political partners so far, but in the SMC we accepted the responsibility and sat at the table with those who had the courage to take the bait and, as we see today, a long-standing problem called the epidemic. We have faced a situation that is complex and unfortunately has no simple answers for it, and we must not ignore the government's response to maintaining employment and helping the economy, which has been addressed in all anti-Korona packages. Above all, it is important that the economy emerges from this crisis more firmly and resilient. In the face of the abstinence crisis and any possible attempts by some opposition to overthrow this government, we can no longer go beyond the fact that it is a politically motivated act, a desire to create a political conflict or crisis and, above all, a regret that they left power to someone else a good year ago. All of this is happening on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. We have recently witnessed even when the opposition, despite many good laws, did not want to confirm even the agenda of the session, and again the account was presented to the people, to those who, due to such and similar manoeuvres, then lose everything. And if anyone in this country acts destructively, it is you who, by your actions, share people, create a political crisis and bring down everything that is essential to the outcome of this crisis. And that's what you've been doing and you're still doing, while others are doing it when we're trying to make sure that the prices for all of this are not paid by our citizens, who can't be just some number in all of this, or figures on some political chessboard. We are citizens in the final phase, all of us, you, me, our families, our friends and in the final stages of our country. We need to think first of all about what is good for people, and not what is good for us, politics, regardless of the spectrum. That is why what counts for us in the SMC is, above all, the experience of people, which unfortunately is quite different from the experience of those who create some crisis situation in politics in the temple of democracy. The problem of people is not such or other records on social networks, not all requirements for meetings and political games are practically without borders. Their day - to - day, or everyday, people, is completely different, and their better tomorrow is not an optimistic prediction for some. All of us should be stability and security priorities at this time. However, if you still find the only right way to overthrow this government in times of uncertain circumstances, we are confident of a different answer in the SMC, and this is still cooperation. Despite differences, we prove that we can cooperate with such different parties with the right and good intentions. There are a number of projects ahead of us and our respective ministries, which will constitute new jobs and the development of a number of areas. We have before us the Presidency of the European Union and Slovenia must prove that, despite differences, we are able to find common paths and goals. More than all the evidence in the constitutional charge deserves to be heard by those political parties who are completely irresponsible in demanding a lot, but are not willing to take risks and give even less. To people that we are discussing constitutional accusations, interpretations and constructive non-trust issues for nine or more hours in the National Assembly will not bring any material benefits. These are legitimate opposition moves, but in these times they smell something else first. In every way, it is trying to create the impression that this government is not doing well, which we consider to be unrealistic and immature. And while some have been led by the political crisis, we are in the SMC's relationship between politics and the economy. The link that will prevent the economy from breaking down and, above all, preserve as many jobs as possible. Our joint work over the past year has been marked by the course of the epidemic and the difficult circumstances in which exceptional efforts have to be made to preserve all key social subsystems in vitality. This is also evidenced by the fact that in the spring forecast, the European Commission has further improved the outlook for economic growth for Slovenia this year. As a result, Slovenia, as far as the unemployment rate is concerned, is the first quarter of the European Union’s most successful members. But for this we had to do something, for this we had to take deliberate measures and assistance for the economy, for this we had to take responsibility, including for the price of less political likeness. And all this while some of you were in politics thinking only about the mistakes of the government and how to overthrow the government. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the government has been adopting anti-Korona packages aimed primarily at people, controlling the virus and preventing its consequences. In the SMC, we are always responsible for taking good and effective measures, as we must be aware that we are not only talking about the short-term but also about the long-term consequences of the epidemic. There are many challenges ahead of us, and it is all the more important that they continue as united as possible. Ideological strife won't put bread on the table. If you want to fight in the opposition, you can continue fighting, and we will work mostly. We don't agree to these games, and we think it's more than enough. It is essential that politics calms down and cooperates. We are convinced that people want a peaceful and stable political environment, and in responsible positions people who can trust them in the first place. People who don't just list political points, but instead of politically prefer to go to the development front. As a result of all these facts, according to the SMC Group, the constitutional charge you have written does not have the appropriate grounds and neither does the content of this proposal support the constitutional charge. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for an indictment. The first was the proposalr, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Of course, I will be shorter than some imagine, for one simple reason, because I want a debate to develop on this constitutional charge. But no matter what, a few things will have to be cleared up before we go into this debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is not the time for some of you to be preparing for the elections, we are offering you this opportunity, but you say you must and you have a lot of work to do, but I have a feeling that you just want to keep bragging about how much money you have already distributed, what you have done and what vision you have to continue to do and that you will do so. Nothing wrong. Then you better prepare a new point and we'll talk about it. Today we have a constitutional indictment against the Prime Minister, not the ministers. The President of the Government. We're only talking about him. It is not my fault if he has decided that no one can replace the Prime Minister in Europe. As you know, you can do it anytime. And every President of the Government, everyone, first of all, has domestic issues in his first place, and when there is a constitutional charge, the President of the Government should be sitting there in that chair, at least in the beginning, as he has been in practice in the 1930s, but, as we see, he will not. I will not comment on individuals who, in their views, have long and wide debated things that are not actually related to the constitutional charge. But I will respond to some of the comments and views, of course, and I will start from behind. You know, right, the coalition didn't invent a COVID-19 and a pandemic, but there's no opposition either. Even less, to report to the opposition that it is creating a crisis in the country is about as much as to say that the opposition actually has an executive branch of power under control and is essentially exercising rule in that country. If anyone and ever only the President of the Government is the one who has all the leverage to cut through this Gordy knot of this political crisis. As far as threats are concerned and accusations are concerned, how the members of the SDS are under crisis or attacks by individuals, and how they are threatened by various stickers. I'm sorry, but you have an executive branch of authority under your hands. The president of the government controls the prosecutors, controls the police, prosecute the crimes of someone who does. But today is a constitutional charge, today we are talking about the Prime Minister, Janez Janša, who, as I have said, intentionally and intentionally violated the Constitution and laws. At least in three areas, it is undeniable. And this debate can show whether we are going to change this and what is most important in the end is that we will decide, and I believe that you have nothing to fear from the fact that you are convinced of the innocence of your Prime Minister that the Constitutional Court will actually do the same. We are not the ones who will judge and decide whether or not to do so, but of course it is the Constitutional Court, which has such knowledge and, finally, the constitutional authority to decide what we are therefore afraid of. What? We will not decide as you call the political body, but the professional institution of the judiciary will decide, and therefore I want and expect to have a discussion primarily on the obviouss that have been proposed today, little less on these thanks to you, what you have built and what you think you are primarily about to build and what the political crisis is. Of course, the political crisis exists by the Prime Minister of the Government in the 1930s. The usurpation of space, time and will. My colleague Horvat mentioned one sentence when he said: "From what we are in power, we are heard in Europe." I would rather not be heard in this way as we are now heard. It will cause the presidency to be disfigured and disgraceful. They are cancelling and transferring events already in the European Union to Brussels, and this government is fighting for one thing only, I will say one great summit itself, and this will eventually be lost, so I suggest not to brag too much, because thank you quickly as mirrors will return to what you are actually doing badly. We are talking about Prime Minister Janez Janša about the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The first debate on the list is Mrs Eva Irgle, preparing a mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have read the constitutional accusation and I must say that it might be better if I did something else in the meantime, given that I did not see on all these pages and in these six accounts any argument that would have led to the fact that the President of the Government had violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I now agree with the proposaler, who initially said that the constitutional charge was a serious charge. Yes, it is, it is a serious accusation, it is a serious one, but these serious accusations are based solely on political interpretation and on some distorted images and manipulations. This needs to be made clear, however, that these serious accusations are not supported by anything, nor do they have any real evidence. I, too, have not heard from the proposaler today any actual evidence where the President of the Government is actually in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is in fact a prerequisite for you to file a constitutional accusation in the National Assembly, either to the President of the Government or to the President of the State. I will now make a brief comparison here when we have filed a constitutional indictment against the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Marjan Šarc, who has actually violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it was proven to him. He violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because he did not comply with the Constitutional Court decision. At the time when the Constitutional Court made it clear how private education financing should be handled. So on the one hand, we have the President of the Government, who has de facto violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, we have the President of the Government, where neither the proposer can prove or present any material or real or substantiated evidence that the President of the Government has actually violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And that is why, Mr Proposer, I am not afraid to make any decisions about this, indeed, but I find it foolish to discuss something for hours and hours that you do not even know how to prove. You talk all the time, if we look a little bit wider, you spread some picture of the bad situation of the country under the government of Janez Janša, and in fact the actual data that our analyses show are both macroeconomic and so on and the indicators in the international public are completely different or reversed. More than once, it has been said that the European Commission has improved the forecast of this year's economic growth for Slovenia in the spring forecast. Slovenia will see this in this year – already now – and in 2022 it will have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union. And here I have to say that Slovenia, not according to our indicators, but according to the European Commission's indicators, is the first quarter of the most successful members of the European Union. These are the facts. And this is a successful government, sorry, this is a successful government. Let's get some clean wine in here. You keep saying we're subjugating systems and sub-systems; that's what they say in the LMSH. All the time in LMŠ, that is, Mr Marjan Sarc's List, they say that we are subjecting ourselves to systems and subsystems. But I'm going to say it again, and I'm going to say it a thousand times, if necessary, we don't subsystems and subsystems in the country, but we normalize them. Let us remember this word – we are normalising and creating some conditions that go in the direction of the rule of law and democratic postulates and standards. That's what we do. However, it must be realized that this is a long-term process, because we did not do our homework at the time of transition as we should. And now, of course, some things need to be done today. I can say that this constitutional charge – today it is also seen through various debates – is just one more in a series of moves or the opportunity for the opposition, together with the media, to somehow inspire and feed citizens with hatred for John Janša. Look, hate is an extremely interesting feeling, isn't it? Usually hatred causes very severe consequences and collapses beneath it. And even in the past, we know from history, it was hatred that was somehow the way to take power. Besides, I didn't want to talk about it, but I was challenged by my colleague, the Moon, in the introductions when he gave up the historical facts. Look, all the socialist regimes, if we look at broader, both national socialism, communism, fascism, and so on, which we see as totalitarian today, have started their way into power by sowing hatred and sowing terror. Thus these socialist regimes began their journey, only the different addressees had, one Jew, one bourgeoisie, one capitalist, then there was hatred of other nations, to the Church, also to us in Slovenia. And that's why, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's very dangerous. And what you've been doing to poison this climate with hostility for a year now is dangerous. I know that politicians are also responsible because I know how they are - I know they are - and I also look at a lot of people who realize that this is dangerous. This is the dangerous work you're doing. But let me take the thought forward. Now we have here the so-called modern, progressive Slovenian Socialists of the 21st century - so described by a colleague of Germany, not a colleague of Germany, but a colleague of the Moon - looked to the future, then added Mrs. Alenka Bratušek and interestingly put your way back to these modern progressive Slovenian Socialists of the 21st century. Hatred of John Janša and hatred of the SDS. So there are all these strange decisions that you make in the National Assembly that take place on the street and so on. My colleague Möderndorfer, as a proponent, I understand that he does not want to hear what this government has done for people, but it is right to say so. Because the essence of every good government is that it works well and works for citizens and citizens. And that's what this government is doing. And if we can brag about it, it's the right thing to do. And it's also right to say what good we've done. In particular, in some local environment and so on. I'm not going to go into this right now, but given that you're saying in this interpretation or constitutional accusation that the Prime Minister is pressing on the media and so on, then explain to me how you're constantly at some press conferences, only you're being transferred everywhere, you're in all the shows. It's probably Janez Janša's pressure on the media that you're here all the time and that you can bump across this government. That's probably what Janez Janša's doing. It's the pressure on the media. And, of course, sometimes we have to brag about it, because you won't read it in the media. But you're going to read everything else, and that's true, so you have to brag. And I'm going to brag more than once. And I'll tell you what good we've done. But today we have repeated ourselves, from caring for the elderly, investing in job conservation, because of measures we have defended over 300,000 jobs in these difficult times and so on. A lot of good things have been done. Helping the economy, raising the lowest invalidity pensions, raising the guaranteed pensions, raising the average of municipalities, not talking about social areas where I myself run a committee where everything good has been done by morning. What did the opposition do this year and a half? Now let's see if people have a show. You supported the protests during the worst epidemic and crisis in the country. Even though you were aware that they were in violation of the law on infectious diseases. There's a lot of people who've been there. And that's what you've been breaking up with. Instilling hatred, that is, at all levels. Excess disrespect in the National Assembly. I can argue that at any time. You planned to delay the adoption of anti-Korona packages so that the aid would not reach people in time. Disgusting a country abroad with imaginary affairs. Remember the “non-paper” affair, remember the so-called dispatch, which we finally found is not a dispatch at all. What else did you do? Breaking down Desus and SMC to bring down this government. That was the purpose and nothing else, just that, even though this government is doing great. And I'll say it a thousand times. Now what's important. But somewhere your complete silence, total silence, happened. A complete silence took place when the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vesel, was inadmissible. The silence of a fellow Jew. And I can actually say to them that it is true, given that there were no sanctions in this area for them, the river nomenest omens. One's thirsty, the other's happy. They can be cheerful and eager for the result that the institutions have carried out with them. Now there was complete silence about the fact that the responsible editor on RTV censored the ambassador of Israel. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this was a grave offense to journalistic autonomy. And this is what you report to the Prime Minister in a constitutional charge that he's putting pressure on the media. But here RTV editor acted by censoring the conversation. Complete silence of the opposition. No one complained about that. Nobody said it wasn't in line with ethical standards, with the press code. Not to mention that you were completely silent when the Ljubljana mayor built a sewer across, but I'm sorry, across the water protection area. And today, in the President of the Government, Janez Janša, you'll find that he doesn't have a hearing for pure drinking water. Do you really believe that? Do you hear how contradictory you are in your actions, how double-minded you are. Here are some things that need to be said out loud. Not to say that he was completely silent when a certain mayor demanded some sexual counterservices for the job. But this wasn't an attack on the integrity and dignity and sexual inviolability of a woman? And you're telling the Prime Minister of the Government, you're telling him on a constitutional charge to promote violence against women. So this is obvious to the person who is committed to adopting the so-called model at the government is that in relation to sexual delinquency, we have finally moved into the Penal Code or that we are moving in some way from the model to the model of self-determination or the model of consent not to talk about other things, because I will be too long because colleagues and colleagues still have to speak for me. But to conclude, I am glad that Prime Minister Janez Janša is somewhere deep in my heart, if I look at you like this, even if you have been watching an interview by Marjana Sharc for Koro TV, you, too, are somehow secretly happy in your heart and also thank you that Prime Minister Janez Janša and, finally, thank God for presiding over the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Diane Jedhan. Get ready, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u53	Hello, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! I just can't say hello to the Prime Minister because he's not here between us. I hope that today no one will say that we still have to clap and be happy that we are becoming a province of one of the neighbouring countries where they speak Hungarian. I hope you don't take such a long step. See, on 3 March last year, we were in this beautiful Hall of the National Assembly, when the current President of the Government was elected, or I am among those who do not know now why the previous resignation had occurred, and everyone who knows the functioning of the current Assembly had to know that then the handover of the staff was in the hands of the current Prime Minister of the Government, but on 3 March, when we sat here, we also talked about a mandate-holder who became Prime Minister of the Government, and then I said on behalf of the Social Democrats some starting points for which I am truly sorry that it is impossible to put them into practice in the Slovenian political space. The most important starting point was to try in a time of crisis due to an epidemic, which is a pandemic, to put some things aside and let together do useful things to protect the epidemic, to protect our people from the epidemic as soon as possible, to control it, and to do everything that, as people, as a society, as countries, we will have as little damage as possible. At that time, the opposition offered a hand, which we carried out in the coming weeks. I don't know if you remember when the first PKP package was created, it was also a loud call by the current Prime Minister of the Government, if you have any suggestions, let them be written, let them be sent, because the members of the Democrats we have worked very hard, we have also done a very serious internal professional debate, prepare a document and hand it over. Of course, the regret of all of this was that we were doing things that were very useful in Slovenia, but were not accepted on the other hand, and this was also happening all the time later, so we found that something for the public was something but work in practice, but okay, they decided that what they needed to do as they thought they knew it was good to do. The first great disappointment was when we watched the fight against the epidemic, that at some point we observed everything but epidemiologists. I am speaking of course here about the Constitution, because under the Constitution it is also the responsibility of the Government to provide health care through its actions. And the first big surprise or one big one was how we simply don't recognize in Slovenia that the fight against the epidemic can't be fought by neither by political scientists nor, in fact, by infectologists, by urologists, and by pediatricians, by other very important professions or education, but that it is fully understood by only people with competences, these are epidemiologists. In fact, until this point in Slovenia, it is those who have not come to know you, which is why many measures are as they are. The other thing that surprised us was how you overheard in controlling the epidemic that had caused such a disaster to this country's changing sides of the World Health Organization. At the beginning of the crisis, the World Health Organization has made it quite clear that we think it is a drop-in and the measures were appropriate, and then, in the middle of last year, they have said be careful if you treat only a drop-in infection of humans you will not protect because there are more and more indications that it is particularly infections via aerosols. Many countries did not then listen and Slovenia should say this, but if people in older people's homes would then listen, they would be significantly safer because they are effective when we have drop-ins that do not work at all if it is found that it is a second type of transfer through small drops that hover for hours and hours even when the patients are therefore not aerosols. That's what I'm talking about because you haven't done any of these corrections in your own right now. If you follow what scientists have found in December last year when they say look at 7 thousand infections is only one external remaining are internally associated with aerosols we as the opposition have asked you very simply please give this group nicely, which advises you to listen to how much it is, although sometimes the feeling is that you do not let experts who control the movement of air and aerosols include more or less. But no, because that was the opposition's proposal. The main people who understand how an infection can actually spread away. In fact, the next major mistake is a December order that was not ordered. At the time we were reaching half a million doses of the new vaccine, even though there are several questions around Moderne, but also the competent secretary of state made it clear that if we decided then to purchase only in the first half of this year we would have at least a quarter of a million more vaccines, this was said here. This is especially because I have been monitoring the last two days of some vaccination sites in Slovenia when they say we cannot get vaccines or we cannot get enough vaccines, but we hope that we will be able to revaccinate and vaccinate those who have already been vaccinated. This is a concrete responsibility, a concrete decision and cannot be avoided. The next fiasco to remember is that just a few weeks ago, there was a single application and a recording of how to apply for vaccination. One new computer system has a new app that really hurts me, because I've been observing how neighbouring countries have been able to successfully vaccinate at least 1 percent of the population a day. One percent of the population per day in Slovenia amounts to 20 000. I'm going to ask a question that's rhetorical, of course. Please list me the days of the last 4 months when we've vaccinated 20,000 people a day? This is not the responsibility of the opposition. It was your responsibility to rule. Name the days when this percentage of the population was realized a day? So controlling the epidemic wasn't a success. The measures you carried out with this leverage here you had the general support of the opposition. We are aware that in times of crisis it is necessary to borrow money that you do not have, in fact, to maintain the standard of people, to enable the economy to operate, because from somewhere we have to collect taxes and that society as such is not too wounded. So this general orientation was consensual in this National Assembly. The only problem is that the measures were not all objectives. Let me say something else, and then I will finish because there will be a lot of debate here today. You have probably read and perhaps even compared, but you do not hope to say out loud whether you realize that last year, Germany, which, by the way, is about forty-five times bigger than Slovenia, has paid the 100 million euro bonus crown - that is what we call the crown supplement - and that they intend to pay up to a maximum of 450 million this year, with two limits, no one can get more than 1,000 euros last year, and this year a thousand 500. According to the published data, you have already paid more than half a billion euros for the crown of the allowance. Small Slovenia, one-in-four times smaller. And I'm willing to let anyone who's got the money, but the problem is, you've been sharing money we don't have. At this point we owe grandchildren and, of course, the money we don't have is easy to share and to create a good climate. The only problem is that the watch of the treasury is relatively fast to come. Every euro will have to be returned. And, even when we ask through the questions sent, initiatives, please give it nice, look, and we don't even talk too much back, look, let's at least from this point forward compare ourselves with those who are more successful, and rational and realize that the money we are spending right now is not the money that is on the reserve, but the money we are borrowing at the expense of your offspring, all of it. But in the end, I will end up as I started – constitutional rights are the right to health care. It is a preventive action and it is an act of curative action, and at this point, the constitutional charge is justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Two words that most strongly characterize the government of Janez Janša – organized crime and incompetence. Depending on the area to the area, these two characteristics combine each other differently. We can talk about criminal incompetence, and we can talk about incompetent criminals again. Nowhere is this more visible than in government handling the Covida-19 epidemic. It began with extraordinary purchases of protective equipment, fans, masks that the Government did not buy to protect citizens and citizens, but as an area in which it can issue commissions to those intermediaries close to the government of Janez Janša. When the second wave came, the terrible price of neglecting vulnerable groups, especially in the homes of older citizens, also proved to be, despite all the warnings that we have given to this topic in the National Assembly in the previous months, despite warnings from nurses, their associations, including those of older citizens themselves. All the drums against the wall, over 4,000 deaths, a large part of these deaths, can be marked by excessive deaths and could be avoided. And in the end, the issue of vaccination. Not only are we in a short time with at least a quarter of a million doses of vaccine, but the very organization of vaccination is a remarkable demonstration of the criminal incompetence of the government of Janez Janša. Once you've checked in with a personal doctor, twice through work, third time you've got one app, second application, third application when you report to the vaccination site, you can be in or out of line, in short, total failure, total disaster. In order to sweep John Janša’s carpet of his crime and incompetence, he also makes laws. For example, it excites the fulfilment of the legal obligations imposed on the financing of the STA. It is no coincidence that the media are the popular target of the government of Janez Janša. If you are a criminal and if you are incapable of being in politics and running the government at the same time, of course you want the public of citizens and citizens to know as little as possible about these things as possible and where the media is not taking over, the logic of the government of Janez Janša says that they need to be destroyed, if not otherwise, by ignoring and faking Slovenian legislation. And that is why I will support the constitutional charge against the government of Janez Janša, and especially against its president, Janez Janša himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Andrej Chernigoj, prepare Ms Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u57	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The well-respected choir! Today we are gathered at the Chamber of Democracy on the proposal of opposition parties that have invested in the procedure of the most legitimate tool of the opposition. Calls, support for people and their thanks show a different picture of Slovenia than the opposition wants to show us. Whether this extremely powerful institute can be taken with as easy as some politicians in this hall and has already been made public in front of this hall through various media outlets that this severe accusation will not be passed or persuaded by most of the people present in this esteemed assembly. It was today's vote that the opposition wanted to force the President of the country, which shows that not even the whole opposition voted for it. The President always has the opportunity to express his opinion. However, when he does so and invites an invisible enemy to the Hill, some of the parties sitting in this esteemed assembly ridicule this invitation and even reject it. The President of the State did not throw the rifle into the corn and visited this party alone in the National Assembly. Then why file such a constitutional accusation? The answer is simple force, the struggle for power simply allows everything. We ourselves did not form the first government in this reference to parliament, but we were state-owned when someone threw a rifle into the corn before the threshold of the covid-19 pandemic. To begin with, I would like to announce that this is her first but fifth constitutional indictment by the President of the Government in all Slovenian parliamentary history. Some say that there is no need to boast today, because we are not before the elections, but “the Prime Minister” here I really wonder whether it is not the LMP who shouts “let’s go to the elections”. The current Government and Ministers of New Slovenia are making moves in all areas. With the status of Q Nova Slovenija, I am not satisfied, I am making movements and cutting Gordija knots in various areas. We give the Slovenian army the space that comes to it in our only country. We restore dignity to the Slovenian armies. With the adoption of the Defence Act, which was adopted by a two-thirds majority or constitutional majority, we have cut across years a lasting problem. Now members and members of the Slovenian Army can be safer after 45 years of age. The second major breakthrough was the adoption of the Law on the provision of funds for the investment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Some in this Chamber would like to see the Slovenian Army barefoot or worse that Slovenia would not have the Slovenian Army at all. That's unacceptable to me. We have not even forgotten about firefighters and civil protection throughout Slovenia. In the area of internal affairs, we have taken a huge step forward, we have taken security at the border very seriously. We have never swept this problem under the carpet, the residents at the border in Illyrian Bistrica feel safer under the present government. The Slovenian military and police are present at the border every day, as shown by the data. The largest number of illegal migrants caught this year is also in Illyrian Bistrica. That we don't talk about 20 tons of garbage clothes in the woods at all. A few days ago, my first law was passed in the National Assembly, the amendment of article 77 of the Media Act 58 votes in favour, 0 against the image that the National Assembly can be complex and vote in favour of the right thing. I stood up for local radios with special status, which no one in this hall wanted to hear for a long, long time, fought for the existence of local radios and digital rural development. Today is the time for the current government to continue its work. Under this government, problems that have accumulated over the past 10 years are being solved. Although we are facing the greatest challenge posed by the invisible enemy, we are acting in stark, united and forward-looking ways. The current government is building an invitation to tender after 10 years in school infrastructure, funds for primary school and gymnasium in Ilirska Bistrica, and there were no invitations to tender for school infrastructure throughout Slovenia. On the other hand, we have customers who want Slovenia without change, without progress, development goes ahead, but we will step on the ground – why? - because it suits them. Being aware of the problems, and doing nothing, it's not going to work for me. Because of that attitude I didn't go into politics, I'm a man of ideas and changes in a positive direction. I will not support the constitutional charge myself because I do not support pear projects during the pandemic, just and for one thing, and for my own benefit. If you asked me again whether to go to the elections in early March last year, I would answer you once again "no", state-ownedness, although at its own expense, and the price of life and the well-being of the people provided by the economy does not have a price. And I'm gonna say this to the end -- I've been standing on the street a lot, but I've never, ever burned chairs. Some of you in this room support this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Today we will therefore decide on the proposal for a constitutional indictment against the President of the Government. The opposition parties are in violation of several articles of the Constitution and of the laws. But let's go from the beginning. The situation that occurred more than a year ago, like this government, no one could have imagined. At that time, the current critical and challenging opposition decided not to rule anymore. In the SMC we accepted responsibility and sat at the table with those who had the courage to bite into the heavy and, as we see today, a very long-standing problem of the epidemic. We have faced a situation that is complex and, unfortunately, there are no simple answers. We also went to this for the price of negative popularity, but as always for the well-being of citizens and citizens. At the SMC, we couldn't let them down at the time of the outbreak of this unknown virus. With all possible attempts by the opposition after the collapse of this government from the first day forward, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is a politically motivated act, with a desire to create a political crisis, and regret that they left power to another one year ago. At this point, stability and cooperation priorities should be for all of us. If, in times of uncertainty, the only way to overthrow this government is for the opposition, we are confident of a different response in the SMC, and this is cooperation. Despite differences, we prove that we can cooperate with such different parties with the right and good intentions. There are a number of projects ahead of us and our respective ministries, which will constitute new jobs and the development of a number of areas. For people, nine or more hours in the National Assembly, discussing constitutional accusations, interpretations and constructive mistrust will bring no good, will divide them even more. Yeah, you're very successful at that, unfortunately. While one of the main leaders of the political crisis, we decided in the SMC to become a link between politics and the economy. The link that will prevent the economy from breaking down and keep as many jobs as possible. Slovenia is the most successful member of the European Union in terms of unemployment rates. But we had to do something about it. For this we had to take deliberate measures to help the economy. We had to take responsibility for this and also for the price, as I said, of slightly less likeness. We did all this while some politicians were thinking about the mistakes of this government and how to bring this government down. There are still many challenges ahead of us, and it is even more important that we continue to be united. Ideological strife won't bring any good. If you want to fight in the opposition, we will continue to work for the good of people and the economy. The constitutional charge you have filed does not have the appropriate grounds for the content and evidence, which is why I will not support the proposed constitutional charge. As a member of the Health Committee, I will only touch on the charges of not ordering additional vaccines. During several hours of the meeting of the Health Committee, we were told why no additional vaccines were ordered at that time in December. Then why? Since sufficient vaccines have already been ordered and the delivery deadlines for these additional vaccines have been anticipated later than already scheduled. Most of them would arrive in the second half of 2021. Of course, at the time, no one anticipated the delay in the supply of certain vaccines. But now that I know you well, I expect that in the case of too many prescribed vaccines, they would make an even greater affair and set up new investigative commissions. I'm afraid some people don't feel right. I suggest that we all work together to actually get enough people to use this vaccine and finally get rid of this back-up virus. As a proposal for a constitutional indictment, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues! Nice greetings for me, too. The year and a half since this government started its public mandate, and the year and a half have already re-created chaotic conditions in Slovenian politics, created an atmosphere of emergency, and at that time the fact has risen record public debt and blew up public finances. The Novela Water Act is just one of a series of measures that the Government is planning to revolutionise the people of Slovenia, in order to reach its electoral base in this way. If we look at why, in the SAB party, we have brought allegations of a violation of the constitutional right to drinking water, which is enshrined in the Constitution on our initiative. Because of two important articles, we are talking about Article 69, which allowed the construction of hazardous buildings in water protection areas and which, in the opposition, was also in the same legislative procedure, which was, by the way, very short for 12 days, a public hearing was withdrawn from the procedure. The second article, however, refers to interventions in coastal lands and there is not a lot of such interventions. See, the Water Act in its 37th article allows by reference to the classification of three pages of facilities of intervention and here we are talking about no residential buildings, therefore, hotels, motels, guesthouses, separate buildings for the service and drinks such as restaurants, self-service restaurants, also youth hostels, mountain huts, mountain shelters, offices, shopping centres, and if this is supplemented by a classification of facilities that speak of unsolicited and simple facilities, this is also an essential annex to the law, which has been released on the five sides also talks about 2m fences. [[Incomprehensible]] All of this can be placed on coastal land with a novelty of this law. We are, of course, very sensitive to these things in the Sab Party. We are also aware that some general or general restrictions or prohibitions are not always taken into account, because life situations are different, but we cannot agree that only by doing so are they allowed to intervene on coastal land and, as I have already shown here, these permitted interventions, which were not previously listed in the law, are only for public use facilities for 3 pages, but if we look at simple facilities, a special annex, this is also essentially an annex which classifies objects in terms of complexity, but also for 4, 5 pages, and of course also includes a two-metre fence. Why would someone put a two-meter fence on the coast? That's what we're wondering. And, of course, we see it as one [[?]] It's a possibility. We have seen these measures, or these legislative changes, which have had an unusually short period of public hearing, for up to 11 days, but in the light of the fact that one way is being pressed down, I will say either privatisation or restrictions on access to public goods and thus to the provision of safe and clean drinking water and in the SAB, of course, we will support the first minister, and therefore we will propose that the Constitutional Court assess these acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Janja the Servant, to prepare himself for the Mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u63	Yes, in the Unaffiliated Parliamentary Group, we have already pointed out in our position three essential neurological points of this constitutional accusation, and these are, of course, prosecutors, the media or the Slovenian Press Agency, and this is a burka with vaccines. What is essential, given the reactions of some coalition members who claim that this constitutional charge does not stand, is that it does not prove any concrete violations of the law or the Constitution and it is of course necessary to respond because it simply does not. It is only a violation of the Law on the Financing of the Slovenian Press Agency, which provides for its financing and to the same extent a violation of the CAP7, which also provides for the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency, that is concrete, evident and still valid infringement of the legislation it is implementing. Let's not be belligerent here, we all know that's what he's responsible for, and that's what the President of the Government is behind, despite the fact that he sent someone else to the front line on this matter. And, the Slovenian Press Agency, as one of the foundations for Slovenian independence, as one of the foundations of independent journalism today, is, of course, also essential for the existence of this country, for the information of citizens and citizens, probably also disturbing. The next item is the D.A.'s office. It is not the appointment of Europeans and ours, Slovenians, to intervene in an independent autonomous branch of power. It means impeding her independence, means impeding her work. And this is a clear violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. A clear violation of the Constitution is also a threat to human health. With what? By not purchasing vaccines, by speculation on how to save euro for the purchase of cheaper vaccines, by favouring a vaccine that no longer has public confidence and not only lacks public confidence, it is also not available. This is particularly evident in the last days when some of the vaccine deficiencies have been reported from individual vaccination centres. This is also a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees citizens and citizens the right to health and health care. These are concrete solutions. And by this conduct, daily, by its communication, its social network records show the full contempt of the President of the Government for the legislator, for the judicial system, for independent media and also for the health of citizens and citizens, which is obviously worth as much as the difference in the price between one and the other vaccines. Therefore, do not change, and the constitutional charge is fully justified and it would be correct for the President of the Government to have to defend himself before the Constitutional Court on the grounds of the allegations made in this constitutional case, in particular the points I have listed. Morale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh, get Tina Hefferle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u65	Chairman, thank you very much. I believe that this legally unfounded and unconvincing proposal of a constitutional charge against the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, will, of course, be rejected today, there is no doubt about it. The opposition, of course, has proved once again that it does not understand the democratic postulates of parliamentary democracy at all, and even less the needs of Slovenian citizens who are still facing the ongoing COVID-19 epidemic. I estimate that this proposal is for a constitutional charge of double-degradation. Thus, the first valuation relates to this democratic institution and, on the other hand, you want to devalue or literally withdraw the aid already granted in anti-Korona packages. Let us just remind one of the main political admirers of LMŠ, Mr Damir Črnčec, who wrote publicly that if the LMŠ comes back to power, they will repeal all anti-Korona laws. What does that mean in practice? Citizens will have to repay all the aid, from those compensations pending work, short-term benefits, solidarity allowances and also in critical infrastructure, workers will have to return the crown of allowances if this political group comes into power, and let us name it show group. Now, this proposal for a constitutional indictment I understand in the diametric opposite, the first being that this Government is doing more than good to work more than effectively. See, evidence 8, what 8 record anti-korona packages with which she helped in the segments of the population, a large part of the economy has been captured here, and I believe that it's the proponents on that side, the opposition, that bothers you. This own incompetence of your own has manifested itself, manifested by your failed government and this proposal for a constitutional accusation as it is said, flattened groundless, without any legal argument is, of course, some typical political manoeuvre of those who have had the opportunity to prove what you know and, of course, you have failed administrators of this country. That's right. The achievements of the government of Janez Janša are, on the other hand, measurable, evident. Let me just nanize a few of them for you. As already said, 8 anti-Korona packages, far the best improvement in European use in history, raising the average of Slovenian municipalities, increasing the activity of Slovenian diplomacy, etc. And, of course, lastly, debirocratisation and digitisation of Slovenia, which, of course, is in full progress. He did not mention to me, nor did he mention in his words what this government had done for the second largest Slovenian city. And these achievements were quite something. Let me list only the most important ones, where the government, through budgetary resources or cohesion funds, has provided funding or co-financing for the construction of a new infectious clinic in UKC Maribor, for the construction of a nursing hospital in Pohorje, for the thorough renovation of the sports hall in Tabor, for the construction of a cultural centre in Rotovž, for the construction of eyebrows over Drava on the Maribor Lent, for the restoration of vital parts of the Maribor Castle, in the final stage of 15 July, the Office for Demography will also work in Maribor. Of course, I am pleased that we have such a capable and effective government that the decentralisation of application is also in practice. I'd only be one point ahead of time when I'm interfering with the media. Look, who was that Prime Minister who, out of his position of power, put public pressure on state-owned companies, sort of saw them in what media they were supposed to advertise? Yes, fellows, this was yours, former Prime Minister Mr Marjan Sarec, where at the beginning of his term he had already shown or burned his finger where to or where not to advertise. And in my opinion, this was actually an eclectic attempt at political interference or influence on the business decisions of state-owned companies and, at the same time, as a result, of course, the pressure on the media itself. And at the end of this point of interference with the media, let me say that now, if you are truthful, you have no single evidence that this government would interfere with the media with any kind of government or reconciliation act in order to, I don't know, make their work more difficult. In fact, it's a purely untruth. Even through the Ministry of Culture, as you know, in 2020, the funds at the annual public tender were paid in full at EUR 2 million 670 thousand. That's what's gonna happen in 2021. Look, respectable colleagues from the opposition, these are the facts, these are the numbers. As stated in the introduction, this political manoeuvre with a proposal for a constitutional indictment will, unfortunately, not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I'm glad it's my turn to go after my colleague Kaloh. With all due respect, but I am pleased that this section will be shown between the Member, who is also a legal profession belonging to the SDS and the Member, who is also a legal profession, belongs to your political group, Mr Kaloh. I am aware that the constitutional charge is a very serious constitutional institution. And today we are talking or at least we should talk about the obvious that the Prime Minister has violated laws and the Constitution in performing his duties. That's what we should be talking about. And here is this distinction between me and you, Mr. Kaloh. Today we are talking about very serious violations of the law committed by the Prime Minister. We're not talking about, I don't know, some kind of violation of, like, road law, where it's a violation, but serious violations that have very serious consequences and very serious weight. I will focus mainly on the actions of the Prime Minister concerning the prosecution in our country. First of all, it may be to refresh the memory of the leg of the restoration, particularly with regard to these two European Delegated Prosecutors, who are still waiting for the government to be briefed as of December. At that time, the State Prosecutor's Council, in December 2020, completed the selection procedure, as the State Prosecutor's Office has been instructed to do, made a proposal regarding the selection of two candidates at the Ministry, and the Ministry submitted a proposal to the Government, which should only be made aware of it. Well, that's where it gets stuck. It's probably no longer a secret that he's stalling with the introduction because of some fixed ideas of the prime minister. So much for this actual condition. Now let us go to the legal qualification of these actions by Mr President of the Government. Let me stress that I will not talk about any political position or views on its actions, but strictly and only from a legal point of view, because we know that the constitutional charge can only be justified and only if the President of the Government violates one of the laws or constitutions with his direct actions. It is very clear that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which commands in Article 71d – commands - that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must inform the two candidates of the European Delegated Prosecutors and submit this proposal to the EIT, says the European Public Prosecutor's Office. From your direct actions, Mr President of the Government - as you would be addressed very directly, but you are not here, and you are also saying the attitude towards an institution such as the National Assembly, but that says more about you than we are sitting here - this is an obvious violation of the law because you are violating, Mr President, the direct command norm arising from Article 71d of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. It's about letting go of your duty. Once again, this law in this article commands you to familiarise yourself with the selection of two candidates and to forward this proposal. This statement that we have been able to hear in six months does not help you to understand that there is no numerical time limit for the government to get to know each other. This does not oblige you to comply with this legal norm that I have just quoted to get to know. I believe that Mr President of the Government knows this, but I will stress or explain it to everyone who might be following us. Whenever a State institution is ordered under any law under any standard to do something, it is obliged to do so whether it is a government, a Prime Minister or any other state institution. However, if there is no numerical deadline, it is said that the period to be defined by a number cannot be considered that this command or law is now required to do something that is no longer in force. No, when the numerical deadline is not set, all state institutions in that country shall be considered to have to do what the law requires within a reasonable period. And I believe that in this half year this reasonable deadline has long expired, that the government is familiar with these two elected candidates. Let me give you another parallel to compare so you can understand what I'm talking about. Even when deciding on the rights and obligations of the parties, the courts do not have a numerically fixed time limit within which they have to judge something, yet they have a duty and an obligation to serve within a reasonable time limit. No matter how many cases were brought before the European Court of Human Rights, where Slovenia violated the trial within a reasonable time. So this is the exact same situation, and within a reasonable time the government should be familiar with these two candidates. And it is very clear here that this is nothing more than a fixed idea from the President of the Government and a deliberate delay and a direct violation of the rule of law that states that the government is familiar with it. If I go any further, why is the responsibility of the President of the Government in this case also individualised by the two European Delegated Prosecutors, which means that he is personally guilty of failing to make this proposal known and, consequently, violating the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Yes, because the Government Act in Article 14 very clearly defines who is responsible for convening government meetings and who is responsible for leading them on the agenda, it is, of course, the President of the Government. In such a way that it goes very clearly here, it could not have been more clear to waive the duty of the President of the Government when he did not convene a meeting of the Government on the agenda within six months, where the Government, as a collective body, would have become aware of the two candidates selected for the European Delegated Prosecutor. What is the political dimension of this direct violation of the Prime Minister of the State Prosecutor's Act? Yes, there are profound consequences. Since February, we have been able to read the Government's withdrawal of the brakes in the European Public Prosecutor's Office candidates on February 20th. Come in. Brussels urges Slovenia to appoint members of the European Prosecutor's Office on 24 February. The European Commissioner for Justice has called on Slovenia to speed up and confirm the Slovenian members of the European Public Prosecutor, because we need to start working with this body on 1 March. From Brussels comes a very clear message that Slovenia should name these two members as soon as possible because we are late. Come in. On 4 March, with all this happening in Slovenia, state prosecutors report to Europe about the pressures on their service, and to the Council of Europe Council of Prosecutors a letter describing the Prime Minister's direct and direct pressures. A little bit more detail about that later, but that's also very convenient. Meanwhile, somewhere between Slovenia and Europe, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Floriančič, reminds the European Commission of the deterioration of the rule of law in Slovenia, which is also very significant. Come in. On 26 April, the European Public Prosecutor's Office called on the Slovenian Government to propose its two candidates, the chief European prosecutor expressed her concern in the letter about the delays in proposing candidates for European Prosecutors in Slovenia, calling on the Slovenian government to continue the procedure. Come in. 30 April, the European Commissioner for Justice calls on Slovenia to accelerate the appointment of prosecutors. Following a call from the chief prosecutor, she joined this call and, secondly, called on Slovenia to complete this selection procedure. Come in. On 3 May, we are reading why the Government is not in the interest of appointing a European prosecutor. Yes, since it has been blocking for almost half a year two of the candidates selected for the European Delegated Prosecutor, be careful, they are upset in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That's Europe's response. The Association of Prosecutors in Slovenia will once again point out that in the pursuit of corruption, fraud, the use of European funds, money laundering and other crimes threatening the European economy, for which a European Delegated Prosecutor would be responsible, it will be very difficult or impossible to work. Come in. On 11 May, Slovenia is unable to stop the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office faces major problems because Slovenia still does not appoint two Delegated Prosecutors, they say that this is a bad signal from Slovenia, and it has been a critical chief European prosecutor. Now I have heard Mr Horvato say that we have been heard in Europe since we were in the government. If this is what you want to hear from Slovenia in Europe, then I am very worried. Come in. On 13 May, the European Commissioner for Justice again called for the appointment of delegated prosecutors. Janša believes that Slovenia is not late with the European Delegated Prosecutor. And if the situation led to that extreme we could read a few days ago, the Government would cancel the selection process for European Delegated Prosecutors. Now, if we think back, this is a very extreme attempt by this government. At first, we had one reason that the Prime Minister made up that the prosecutor didn't speak English, then the Prime Minister made up that the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office was a post office law and that he wouldn't be a postman now, and he made up this decision to annul it with some scribble from the proposal for a decision I couldn't tell him anything better just to break the law. This is nothing more to me than a violation of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which today, just as it still insists on the Government to be aware of it. Now, with regard to the pressures of others on the Slovenian prosecution, this letter, which the Prime Minister sent to the Attorney General's Office in July 2020, is nothing more than a direct interference with the work of the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenia, which should point out that the constitutional category of the law states that prosecutors must be independent and independent in their work, and directly by this letter, Mr President Janez Janša violated Article 3 of the Public Prosecutor's Act because he suggested that state prosecutors should work, even though he did not have these powers and that he violated Article 135 of the Constitution at the same time as I said, the Prosecutor's Office is a constitutional category and if we read the Constitution's comment we can find the record that every involvement in the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office is also by the Government, especially by the Prime Minister of the Government, that it can also be regarded as a derogation from the rule of law. Here we have a series of evidence, if you already wanted evidence, so that the President of the Government directly with his actions by both the service and the suspension violated the law and the Constitution, and that is all it takes to find out when we have a constitutional charge before us, where it determines the responsibility of the President of the Government, who carries it in the exercise of his office, and I see no reason why, if we have any common sense, this proposal would not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, prepare Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! You know this continuous occupation of one person with Janez Janša, who I think is actually allowed in this world to do just that Slovenia does not really deserve and we have been dealing with citizens and citizens of Slovenia for 30 years. You, John Janša, are all that you read to everyone else. What or what I should say here is what you do in contravention of the Constitution and the legislation because you know all this very well and not only that you know it on purpose. It is foolish to suggest that you are referring to Slovenia, to some values, to citizens and citizens. There is only one thing for you, John John Janša, and it is a perfect, absolute authority. And for that you're willing to use all, exactly all the means, legal and illegal. You have, after all, proved this with a document, with some kind of client document that you're supposed to consider at a congress where you're even threatening civil war. Do we understand each other? Only the use of this term is unacceptable. And on behalf of, or to silence, our political opponents or rivals, as is better said. Horrible and unacceptable. We would think that this is even impossible in a democratic Slovenia. So that I don't talk too much about you, let's see what your political colleagues think of you (quote): “The political practice of Janez Janša is based on manipulation and misdirection. There is no dialogue, there is no argument to face.” Whose words are those? The words of Jelk Kacin, your close associate, from the time of the first important, most important government, and also these, I hope, last. Next, lying, manipulating, spreading hatred and evil. That you're not a Democrat, said Ludmila Novak, your associate. That your leadership is extremely authoritarian, that you despise your interlocutors with a different opinion and that you are not a Democrat - this is what Ivo Hvalica, former member of your party, said publicly. I didn't make that up. That's what your coworkers said about you. For example, Dimitri Rupel, in 1995, so you don't choose the means to be mean and ruthless, to look for servants. I went to school alone when Rupel was with you, Minister of Government; I'm sure he knows you better than I do. So, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to stop fooling around. Can you please stop pointing your finger at others? Everything you read to others, you do. All your actions, attacks on the media, justice, civil society, deliberate contempt of social dialogue, police repression - these are not some cases, you want perfect authority, unity, dictatorship. Janez Janša, you're a political extremist. You're a fanatic. And as your coworkers have said, you're willing to use all your resources for the authorities. You've already failed one crisis ten years ago because of your obsession. But this moment is slightly different, it's not just economic, it's much worse, it's much more affecting people's lives. With your authority, you have caused people additional hardships, severe hardships. That's why it's enough. You'll have to treat your frustration elsewhere, not as Prime Minister. Above all, you will have to take responsibility for your actions. And the constitutional charge is the first step towards that. I don't even want to re-count every bizarre act, every affair that goes on from day to day. We've talked about this a lot. The citizens are sick of it. And my stomach's turning on all of this. However, I would like to call on all citizens and citizens here, at the same time all Members and Members, to do so on the next occasion, when we have the power to cast our votes in a democratic way for change, with a view to mutual respect and, above all, a more auspicious future, in which there will be no room for hatred and repression, as is the case with the current Government under the leadership of Janez Janša. Until then, we will, whether you want or don't want to, show our disagreement on the street, because this is one of the fundamental constitutional political rights in democracy in addition to electoral law and referendum, and the fascist authorities can be put on their head if they want to. As long as people are willing to raise their voices against injustice and for a better future, I am sure there is hope. Allow me to end by expressing my belief that most citizens and citizens want to live in a tolerant and free society, that in Slovenia, as we have established with the Constitution, in one that is aware of the importance of humanism and which enables everyone to develop their potentials. The tragedy in this country was too great, at least one thing we can end quickly. Enough of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. First, let me say that, unlike the predecessor I strongly agree with, I will not use another person of one who expresses his point of view because he is not here, thereby expressing respect or disrespect for this National Assembly and, above all, the constitutional accusation of "impeachment", which is one big and very, I would say, a legitimate thing that does not happen very often. I will speak, of course, in the third person of the only person who, in the Slovenian language of the book, expresses the non-participation of the conversation or the verb act without the person, and I wish, as well as 70% of the citizens, that without this person we can continue to live peacefully and harmoniously. Because this 70% is constantly asking, what the hell is wrong with this John that we have to deal with him for 30 years? And, you know, my minute is quite short to explain and list all violations of the Constitution, laws and also human rights and the most basic relationship among people, as expressed by John Janez Janša, is currently absent. In short, we are all hostages of obviously a very problematic individual, whom some of you, as unselective as the deity, support, either out of some opportunism or out of true faith and calculus. In short, the absence of this John John Janša, who wants to remain permanent and thus save Slovenia, is a sign of his arrogance. In short, and ignores not only the judiciary, the European institutions, but also this National Assembly, in short, it is just the sky above it. No one, no laws, no constitution, no nothing. His attitude towards the media, as previously mentioned by colleagues, through the non-funding of the STA and just today we have learned how to get through the media call, of course, Members who have their shares and co-ownership in Novi24 will be happy and it seems entirely fair to you that in the media tender which is a media call for SDS media, it is obvious that they have received funds for operation and co-financing, only media which are somehow or otherwise connected to the SDS. In short, the D.A., didn't you say, state prosecutors, John John said, they don't speak English, that was one of the reasons. You know, when we read his tweets, about his English, which shames Slovenia even further, to America, we could at least have some lecturer, because the gentleman is very rich and there is no fact, the fact is that he is very rich, I think we have no doubt about that at least. In short, this disgrace of Slovenia, and believe me, that our presidency is not so much at stake because of the opposition, but only lower officials will meet with it if it so wishes. “Twittership”, in short, if I go, not naming the judges, which I have already mentioned, then destroying and disrespecting the profession at the time of the epidemic. Respected and respected, you know how many fatalities have resulted in, and you know, history is a ruthless judge, and all of you who are now sneezing and so blindly defending it, will once again say that you were only following instructions, as always when it comes to putting bills before the nation and still daring, in addition to everything, to call for civil war. You know what, by subjugating the judiciary to submit to the police, the military, and now he feels so strong that he would just ban one parliamentary party he would just be going to the civil war, and at the moment that one president of the government would have to jump all the institutions, all the judges, all the police, all the military and such a dangerous man would have actually disabled before they realized their black dreams. Now, of course, the discreditation of these people who spontaneously protest against such an authoritarian government is the daily practice of this President, as well as of all his servants, to say so. Let me remind you how each week as John Janez Janša was in prison, we are the only ones who have a former inmate as Prime Minister of the Government, how they regularly gathered before the court, although there was a maximum of 50 of them going on one bus and now there are thousands of being gathered spontaneously without a sandwich and a diary as opposed to your supporters. In short, as our coordinator mentioned earlier, first the discreditation, then the liquidation. Remember the words of Ivan Kramberger: “The former communists will not want to let go of power.” They'll do anything when they're not in power and they'll call for protests. John John called the people on the street when he was not in power and he told you everything he said would take away the beloved Slovenians you would be very poor. I walked past Prešeren's monument when I was still employed in the City Theatre, and we smiled because we didn't believe that it was possible. Today, in the image and work of John John Janš, we see the horror of that visionary prediction. What else did Ivan Kramberger say to a good man from? [[Incomprehensible]] What John learns is what John knows. Dear Slovenians, open your eyes and ears once and say no, for let us finally realize that Slovenia is not able to slide the authoritarian system and dictatorship, but Slovenia is deeply in dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word to prepare Yuri Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues say good-bye! A constitutional charge as defined in Article 119 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the possible legal liability of the President of the Government for violations of the Constitution and laws relating to the performance of his office. The other legal institutions provided for by the Constitution are interpellation, non-trust, dismissal presupposes in particular the identification of the political responsibility of the President of the RS Government or of individual ministries for certain acts while the constitutional charge under Article 119 of the Constitution requires a special procedure to determine the merits of the charge, which means that it is necessary to establish, in a procedure, the subjective responsibility of the President of the Government for clear acts and not only political responsibility, which is in fact covered by the concept of objective responsibility. Today we have before us a proposal for a constitutional indictment brought by Members of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab. Only the text of the constitutional charge is some kind of recycling that's already been heard. Thus, in the case of individual requirements for the emergency meetings of the National Assembly of the various committees and commissions, the interpretations tabled and, last but not least, the failure of the constructive non-trustees have failed. There's nothing new that we wouldn't have heard before, which we wouldn't have already decided. Your constant repetition of one and the same government and coalition responds to the actions and actions that have been taken by the last indicators and that is the most painful for you in the opposition. It is very difficult to listen to your concerns about the protection of the health of our citizens and citizens while you and still have constant doubts about measures to plague the spread of the disease and how we have had the most stringent measures in Slovenia, even though if we look at neighbouring countries only we find that this is simply not true. Your findings regarding vaccination and the supply of the vaccine have no real basis, as the current proportion of transplantation in Slovenia is similar to that of the other members of the European Union and we do not give up in any way. And all the problems that occur at the rate of vaccination are similar to those in other countries, but they are mainly related to the supply of vaccines alone and are mentioned in the production capacity of the companies producing these vaccines. But we all probably want as many of our citizens and citizens as possible to be vaccinated. The evidence in the proposal for a constitutional indictment on the non-constitutional prohibition of the referendum on investments in the Slovenian Army and the violation of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia are, in my opinion, totally flat and unfounded. Finally, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already ruled on this and is in its final decision of 1. 4. This was also rejected entirely by 2021. So much for the quality and validity of the constitutional charge. Then there are also allegations of the reduction of the rights to clean drinking water. We have talked about this a lot yesterday, and I am particularly wondering why, after the amendment of the Constitution in 2016, you have done nothing to make this constitutional right a reality in practice, as the Ombudsman has also pointed out in several reports. In my opinion, the charge of the President of the Government before the Constitutional Court is unfounded, so I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Get Monica Gregorčič ready. Here you go. Excuse me, proposer. I didn't see it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u75	A few things will have to be commented on, given that we are used to getting lies and falsifications on that side, and so on. And I'm gonna go straight ahead. First time. Mr Kaloh, a member of the National Assembly is very fond to quote, but he likes to mention who has said something, and who has said something will just have to read sooner and quote exactly what has been said. First time. Now I'm going to repeat to you what was written. You have mentioned that Mr Črnčec has stated that we will cancel everything about the CAP and that people will have to pay back money. You know you've been lying to me. He made this very clear: “Yes, we will cancel all the subsets who were inside the PPK.” And you yourself know that retrograde back but you simply can't ask someone to do something that you once shared with him and that's in your well-known manners a complete delusion. That's all there was to it. Of course, it suits you to add a word a little and quickly spread dissatisfaction on people to lose money. Now I'm going to tell you again, but if you didn't personally understand it, it's pretty sad. But no matter what, don't lie, not even in this National Assembly. The next thing that was heard today. A colleague of Mojca spoke about the fact that vaccines were ordered, which would have come in some other time later, and therefore it was not so current and meaningful. It just doesn't hold. My colleague Mojca, I'm sorry if she's not in the hall, then it would be easier for us to talk. The fact is that the Ministry of Health has only said and assured that there are documents on this, so I quote "provide a sufficient amount of vaccine as soon as possible in the first half of the year". That's what she missed, it was supposed to happen by June. And now imagine if we had these vaccines ordered, what I was talking about in the constitutional indictment, it would be very ideal, because these vaccines would belong to us and today there would be no problems like we have to run out of vaccines, there would be no problems. In February, both the President of the Government and Mr Krek of the NIJZ and the Minister of Health repeated the same mantra, and the Minister of Health knows who he was at the time, they reiterated that we will be able to start vaccination for the entire population by the end of February, and by then these priorities will be those. And before the summer, we're going to get 70% of the graft. Already in April, this data has changed, and there will be a 60 % splinter, and suddenly we have changed the standards and criteria that if 60% of the people are slaughtered, then we will be saved from all evil. May this number turned 60 into 50. Why I am telling you this, what this has to do with the constitutional charge, you will say — because if we had the vaccine, there would be no such dilemma today. You know what the problem is. In the flu, we say that if we have 93% of the graft, we can already be very seriously concerned. But we're talking about 50% with the covido, which will save our beloved country. And, a colleague who spoke last before me, colleague Pavlin, okay, let's just say I accept the fact that you mentioned, you're going to repeat some of the things that have been mentioned many times before, and it's even been decided somewhere that there's no evidence. And you, not you, because you won't be able to tell me anymore, except in the replica, tell me, what is the evidence for you that the National Assembly must bring in the evidence process when you say that there is some special process of proof and that this must not be a political conviction, such as an interpretation or a constructive non-trust. We're aware of that. Guided by articles and facts is more than enough to prove whether someone has violated the law or the constitution. Or is that true, but the Constitutional Court will judge, not the National Assembly. Therefore, without deceiving, there is no specific evidentiary procedure other than to charge and state on the basis of which article this crime exists. Because, excuse me, colleague Pavlin, this is a crime, it's not a traffic offence because someone was driving 10 kilometers faster if they didn't order the vaccines. That's what we're talking about. And so, give it to me once, if we're so ignorant and we can't prove it, tell me what this procedure is. Is there a prescription? In the Rules of Procedure? Give me a quote. Give me a slap. I'm waiting for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Get Monica Gregorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u77	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! The current Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša, who is facing an epidemic of covida-19, has helped and is still helping people and the Slovenian economy. The current government is building. While you, the proponents of today's constitutional indictment, the left opposition, under the guidance of a man who was a teacher at school, as he himself has said, Mark Marjana Sharca, quote that “he is as stupid as a man’s sex organ”, the end of the quote is to break it down. And while the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government coalition in the National Assembly have adopted laws that have provided more than 300 thousand low-income pensioners with two solidarity allowances of up to 600 euros; while the pensions have been extremely harmonised; while all citizens and citizens have received a tourist voucher; while the averages have risen to Slovenian municipalities; while the government has prepared, the government coalition has adopted eight anti-corruptive packages, with a weight of several billion euros, which have been primarily directed at the Slovenian population and economy; and while soon we will be considering the long-term supply law in the temple of democracy, a package of debarcation and also legislation that will tax downplaying all citizens and citizens of our country; and, while our third-membered economy, a package of 4% of the European economy, the European Commission is currently in favour of 201. Even in the field of unemployment, Slovenia is ranked as a better European Union country by the European Commission. And there is also very talkable information from April this year, when we fell below the limit of 80,000 unemployed in Slovenia. Well, in the meantime, you, the respected left opposition, after throwing the rifle into the corn and while twice – twice – rejecting the official hand of cooperation when you have a full mouth of talk about cooperation and so forth when it is offered to you, turn away. During this time, you're filing interpellations, you've filed an untrustworthy complaint, but today we're still dealing with a constitutional charge. In short, as we can see very clearly, tear it down wherever it crashes. Ladies and gentlemen, I will have two points in my debate. First of all, I will touch the STA, namely the Slovenian Press Agency, and at this point I will focus only one simple question, to which I politely ask that each of you, to answer it, be honest with yourself. How much time, respected and respected, would an x person who is the director or director of your personal enterprise, i.e. a company whose 100 per cent ownership you personally are, even a director or director, if you do not wish to be delivered to you, provide business documentation? Respected and respected, just answer that question, and if not all, very much, but very much will be clear then. The second point where I'm going to use a few more words is the so-called dictatorship that you're talking about, that you're writing about, and that some of you are obviously dreaming about. At this point, too, I will raise some questions that I hope will be answered by each of us. Two sets of questions, in each set of three. Let's get started. So, how do the media report in dictatorship? How do protests take place in dictatorship when they take place? And do people in dictatorship hope to express their views publicly? And now for another set of questions. How do Slovenian media report in Slovenia, especially national media? How is the protest taking place in Slovenia? And do we hope to express our opinion publicly in Slovenia, no matter what it is? Respected and respected, you may now wonder if these are rhetorical questions, for I am sure we all know these simple answers. Some of you probably have your eyes closed, but deep down, you know the answers. But it is true that these lies, which are so uninterrupted and so repeated, are spoken, of course you want to become the truth. That is why the truth has to be illuminated even more and more. You know, they don't just say that a lie is an immortal soul of communism, but the latter in Slovenia, after almost 30 years, we are still unable to condemn one another. The same as the rest of the "eats" is the same as fascism and Nazism. Ladies and gentlemen, before I conclude my debate, let me mention in this final “intermanence” a few more words about what you are writing in the constitutional charge, in particular, as regards the term or word relationship of the death of Janshism, where you are once again incredibly moving. This term is a direct threat to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is a direct threat to at least 222 thousand 42 voters and voters, who, in 2018, were elected by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, respected and respected, received more votes than the second and third parties received together, as they received the election votes of the List of Marjan Sarca and the Social Democrats. More than 21,000 votes received by the Slovenian Democratic Party than received jointly by the LMŠ and the SD. Respected and respected, the constitutional charge that we have before us is substantively empty, without arguments and is the result, as we have seen from today's debate, of your political disagreement with the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in some, perhaps even personal hatred of Janez Janša. Therefore, I will not support the personal constitutional charge, but I am sure that today's debate and the vote will clearly show that this Government is working well, that it will continue its work and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still holding the parliamentary majority under the leadership of Janez Janša in this National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word to prepare for Marko Bandelli. Here you go. Excuse me. Replica, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u79	I would warn my colleague that STA is not your company, and that UKOM is not the one you should be depositing your bills to. If I did that, I'd break the law and we'd have another reason to squeeze them. The death of Janshism is, of course, the death of ideology, as we say, the death of Nazism, fascism or communism, which you so desire, but with the death of communism, the SDS would be greatly deprived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Now, Monica Gregorčič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. First of all, I would like to make a brief assessment of the political circumstances surrounding today's hearing and the opposition's filing of this constitutional indictment. In fact, the author of this document is definitely an indicator of the opposition's despair, because with all the democratic institutions so far you have not reached the desired goal and have somehow shot at nothing. Clearly, the abstinence crisis from power has not yet been forgotten. However, there are six points on which today's constitutional charge is based, including a reflection of the current state of the opposition. Disrupt, adjust, obstruct, and become too weak and even inwardly dislodged, even though you want to or want to conceal it in vain, that you are unable to form a credible alternative. Only Mr Jože P. Damian and Mr Erjavec were more than a blank shot, but the fact is that anti Janša policy is no longer enough, there will be something more to show and also a development vision. Now, perhaps anger or pain because this government has been running for the third time, Mr Janez Janša, is immeasurable, but comes from your deep, sadly mistaken belief that power belongs only to you. To do so, it shows your double appearances, you say something in the background and you are doing something completely different, and indeed, you are verbally skilled, but you are doing exactly what you are now reading to this coalition in some false form of democracy you are wrapping up some cooperative rhetoric, but of course you would not selectively cooperate with everyone, you are for freedom of speech, but you are selling it under the term of freedom of the media and you are full of false social solidarity, for example, you do not want to, you are not agreeing to reform for lower taxes and higher net wages. Let me just remind you, in the time of the left governments the most privatisation was made by our state property by encroaching on the left transitional tycoons, that I am not even talking about the 5 billion-dollar recapitalisation of our banks, when the assets of these tycoons were also being saved. The charge itself, the contents are empty, composed, glued as a puzzle from some six points, resulting from some solo action of LMŠ, which, of course, most bloody at this moment needs elections, has forced them for over a year, all from that unfortunate target of the rifle into the corn, which certainly today the former prime minister deeply regrets. The fact is, the LMŠ is really in a hurry for early elections until a new political face appears, that's understandable. However, I do not understand how you can assist Mr Sharpe in such a humble manner as to set up a political party and an experienced politician. A little more detail on the six points, the contents of this constitutional charge. First of all, buying or rejecting the purchase of a vaccine. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia has purchased and concluded contracts for a sufficient amount of vaccine in the context of the central purchases organised under the European Union's coat of arms with an appropriate safety reserve. As a result of a local shortage, it was exclusively in the non-production of this vaccine, and as a result, of course, it was necessary to look for other sources afterwards. Now, if you were not consistent or over-procurement, then you might be able to see some irrationality as said never to be right and you would not be right, so the evidence of inadequate purchases of anything by those who left empty warehouses of medical equipment at the beginning of the pandemic is not in place but the first proof of your duality. Another point of reference for media intervention. I would remind you, Sir, at the invitation of the former President of the Government of Mr Šarc since the end of 2018, on the Government's website, an invitation has been issued that companies in state or state ownership should no longer advertise in the media spreading hostile content. Do you respect your freedom of speech? What are these hostile contents and what this hate speech is about is once again judged by the court. If it's not an intervention in some media autonomy, and it's completely into the independence of the judiciary, then I don't know what it is. Maybe just a few more words about the STA. If Mr Director, who is responsible for the business and for the financial management of sufficient funds and for the payment of salaries, is able to respect contracts if he can send an invoice to UKUM, then I believe that I can also send on the same the corresponding documentation resulting from the contract as a contractual obligation so that he does not hold any statement that we have heard today that UKUM is nothing and no one. Look, if it has to be a mercenary, then it's probably no one, but it's again proof of duality under some criterion that belongs to us. Pressure on the D.A.'s office. The pressure on the prosecution is another topic besides the U.S.A., which has been overly politicized unfortunately also by our former parliamentary party colleagues, in order to build on it their story of withdrawal or collapse of the coalition, of course, it was not their sole action but with the assistance of the media and other structures in the background, but it was their decision. But I do know that your colleagues in the opposition are telling them that they did it too late. Point 4 — Promoting violence against women, intolerance, hate speech. I would like to recall the Ministry of Justice's proposal that this Government adopt an amendment to the Penal Code by modifying the definition of rape by model. [[Incomprehensible]] With regard to the hate speech, the court shall first, as it is said, judge it. Insufferability is the point which, of course, is the most widespread of all the opposition's secret policies by quietly agreeing to a street dictatorship that approves anti-government protests that are certainly controversial. Those crying "performances" can indeed say that they are already responding to some instances of hate speech, the spread of intolerance even calls for violence, but you are not bothered and you have not condemned some of them even taking pictures. Unfortunately, you think that this will put some pressure on some Members, and these pressures are in direct conflict with Article 82 of the Constitution, which says that Members are not bound to any more street pressure. Point 5 – Prohibition of the referendum on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army. In the meantime, you have been completely defeated by the Constitutional Court, and the referendum is not admissible because it is a matter of state security. Denial of the right to drinking water. By seducing with political activism you have managed to achieve or collect enough signatures, the referendum will indeed be carried out, but I am sure the truth will come sooner or later. The new Water Act, which restricts construction on coastal land, has nothing to do with endangering drinking water, which is a constitutionally provided category. You would be reminded of that particular case of duality, you were not very loud in the opposition when the construction of the sewer channel C0 through the Ljubljana aquifer was problematic, and NGOs were mostly quiet. Respectable proponents of this constitutional accusation, I think it's time to look in the mirror and first clean up before your threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Get Matjaž Han ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u83	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Now we're here in fact here is some constitutional accusation, an indictment, a man can't even imagine how this can happen and a coalition is disgusted by why we're doing it. I will only remind you that we are using virtually all the means of such, which are legitimate and in a purely legitimate way to make order here and what your now Minister Shircelj has been saying, if you remember his words "the opposition works to overthrow the Government" that was on the hiring, his words. So nothing to worry about about what we're here hoping we'll succeed slowly or not, it doesn't matter. Today, after 301 years, we're probably taking our heads and wondering if this second generation of self-reliants deserves this harassment because what's going on now is pure harassment. This is the result of this harmful government, it is purely clear, madness and your ideological constant arrogance, which we listen to virtually daily. And this conflict that we feel among people has never been in the 1930s, never in the 1930s has there been as much controversy as we feel among people today. And you listen to your 15% voters, and you think that's all right, but the other 85% are not on your side. So you'll know about it. Now there's only one thing missing from your Prime Minister's invitation to a civil war, which was exactly the top of his intellect. Now, respected colleagues and respected viewers especially because they see and watch what is going on here and what are the arguments for and what are the arguments against, because it is normal for you to defend your President with lies, a lot of lies, a lot of untruths, and someone else says to look in the mirror, to look yourself in the mirror where she was before, and where she came now and devoured all the promises to their constituents, but that is not my problem, the voters will already talk about it. Now I'm wondering if we deserve all this. We have proposed this hatred in one good year of the government of John Janša, in one good year. Now, is this what we wanted or what? We also know the culprits, you know, because we also have the culprits why this is happening. That's why I think we have exactly, not the culprit, pardon my colleague, I've told the culprits who they are, by the name of them, we know exactly who they are, who are, who practically won't let us send home everyone together and all this suit, that's what we know exactly why they're holding chairs and why they want to be still in that place. Now we go to concrete because of this so-called, two points are the most important here, the other are important, but what is. [[Incomprehensible]] I believe that at this point probably, I believe that the vaccine is enough at this point too, the problem is more with those who are not vaccines and those issues that are now out there, which is also one problem that can't affect and can't even decide itself government or coalition or position or anyone else because they are just. [[Incomprehensible]] I am still 100% convinced that vaccination is an optional matter, and must remain so, everyone must decide for himself whether or not to be vaccinated. However, how could a government president reject a million vaccines when he had the opportunity to order vaccines. It's a shame, it's a horror! That's something that shouldn't have been then. At that time, he was even a minister of health, and he should not have afforded it. How many lives could we save if we had that vaccine here before? And those empty promises, when we're cut off, month after month, more and more and more of the extension of those deadlines and so on. I mean, it's purely scheming on your part. I think there's a big responsibility here, his personal responsibility. As far as the STA is concerned. We're listening here, I don't know, we've had maybe ten debates about the STA and this yesterday, but it's clear exactly that what's going on isn't anything like that. The government or the state is mandatory; it has to finance the operation of the agency by law; it has to. And what my friend Ferjan said is lame, it's just deception, ownership, and who needs to show. Ukom doesn't own it. Ukom doesn't own it. Uko doesn't have any right to ask for documents. The government should ask, the only one. That's what it is, not Ukom. And then worry about them so that we can look at their business, which they also do outside of that public part of funding. And here you know exactly, the 30th you stopped, then the 14th of January, I don't know why you settled these obligations, because then the same package and different package was adopted, the 24th you stopped again. Now he's smart again, and you're poor. [[…]] Where have you ever seen a state press agency give one or five euros in text messages to keep it going? Where did you see that?Oh, my God! Are you crazy?Oh, my God! What are you doing?Oh, my God! What are you trying to prove? Who are you trying to prove something to? Who? Furthermore, I can't help but take – I apologize – the nonsense that Jelinčič said that in the STA they probably don't even know what the country's legal obligations are. What are the country's legal obligations to the agency, to talk about unbalanced information when STA has never really had any different view than the real picture that is happening in politics, in reality, and that is what is known. The only ones undecided, yet you know exactly who the journalists are, where they belong, who they are, and who the brother and sister are here. Be honest and tell me once what they are. And we never said that it was defined in one way or another, never. Now in this government, what you've done in one year and a half, you know what the biggest problem will be – the biggest problem will be to clean up and “blow” thousands of believers you've placed and possessing on certain precisely strategic positions, because it will be a real problem to replace them. But you're smart here, I have to admit that you're really Jacks here, I mean, you know exactly how to do that, because you've changed everything you can change. Politically, not professionally, but here we have to be careful that people know, politically, NPU, Surs, Furs and all that. Politically put people in such institutions, I mean, in such positions, in such places that everything is "crambled," right, because we know what this is about. Let's just leave it. I think that one of the most worrying statements made these days is this declaration of civil war. And here's another thing. If I've listened to Ferjan before, he distances himself in his discussion and regrets a gesture. This gesture, his gesture, I mean, this gesture that we saw, because he's probably going to be in a preteen too, because he likes to show it so much, and I'm going to show it here. Look, I'm gonna show this thing. You see here exactly what this is all about. It was published, it was published by you, you published it. Yeah, that's the photographer's greeting, isn't it? [[Laugh]] It's the photographer's greeting. It's the photographer's greeting. That's what we see, isn't it? [[advertising from the hall]] Hey, wait a minute, 'cause I didn't publish it, you published it, your kid published it. Well, I'm just showing you what it's all about. I hope you're moving away from this because it's a real shame. This can't be happening. This is a real shame. Just like I condemn communism, and I tell you honestly, without any problem, but I also condemn such things here, which is increasingly, more and more. I hope you're not there, well, and that your young man is smarter than what you do in public with it. It's a Nazi saluta, isn't it? Now, I don't know, even Minister Tonin now somehow recruits all the people, the new, the army to come in for free, slowly peeing and everything and yet, the president is talking about the civil war. I don't know. I'm just thinking. Something's going on here. Let's think about people, let people think if that's what this is, right? Is it worse than what honest protestors do outside, who have never done any “splitting” or what needs to be done? What's wrong with cycling and expressing their disagreement? What was wrong with that? Because then you send your teams inside to do the dissension and whatever it takes, because that's what's gonna happen, because that's what we're sure of, isn't it? Not to speak of ideological other matters, your quarantined panther, as a symbol I mean, these are such things that really, literally no man's stress. [[…]] You know what I'm going to say to you, a respected coalition here, I'm very disappointed in your work, your professional work, like the government. I've been expecting some concrete reforms, I've been expecting, quietly, concrete reforms, start-up strategies, one you haven't given, one you haven't put up, you're just letting the fiscal world, it's given you billions, it's available, you've distributed and given this discharge, and because of the votes, nothing else, let's be clear. The release of the labour market. Where's, uh, where's the law, specifically? Debirocratization, you've got a million things in there that I can confirm, 50 percent agree with them, the other 50 percent are absurd inside, and it's going to have to be reviewed and done. But this trick is always to put it all together, in one, as a colleague once said, "subtle," right. But the main thing is, as far as development and strategy for the economy are concerned, I'm sorry, you didn't put absolutely nothing on the table, nothing, so far. I hope it does. I'm waiting. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We'll also confirm if we have to. Therefore, if I were to conclude with this matter, it is not a violation of the Constitution here, it is a matter of common sense – it is a matter of common sense – which is probably not and is not a violation of the laws, as stated here, it is a rational and balanced decision for citizens to go home, according to the household, that is what we, you, Janez Janša and your Government would want. Stop, according to your own words, harassing Slovenia and the Slovenian people. That's it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The motive of everything. Dear colleague, I have only told you the facts and that is the policy of us social liberals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! You know, before I come to Parliament, I've tried to be respectful of people and I'm trying to be respectful in this House too, because as a functionary, I'm particularly under sight and below, I'm going to say, lights and, as such, I respect democracy, I respect this Parliament and I want everyone to respect this Parliament. In this House we have the opposition and the coalition, everyone has their job, we all got it in one way or another, but we got it in a democratic way, I agree, but we have one big problem in this Slovenia – we are missing a little bit of this, definition of what the opposition is, what the coalition is and that is why today we have the situation in this country as we have. Today we are talking about a constitutional charge which is essentially the most powerful parliamentary weapon of the opposition, so trust me, this institution deserves respect from all officials, from all politicians, and in particular it could respect this institution as a long-standing Member, the multiple President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. This ignorant woman, whatever she thinks she's probably [[?]] Constitutional charges, content, ignoring the opposition in this country, ignoring this institute, is very, very bad for my terms. We have done everything, so I will say, “by the book”, article 119 of the Rules of Procedure, yes, no, pardon, article 191 of the Rules of Procedure, article 119 of the Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately we are now talking to an empty chair, but on the other hand we have a council of lawyers defending Janez Janša. It's okay. Why am I going to back this constitutional charge? First of all, and when I first started out like this, the most disturbing thing is this hater, this impatient communication, which sometimes goes to the president or many times the President of the Government through writing various tweets through insulting people, and it seems to me that it's wrong and that you're an official who shouldn't be allowed by the President of the Government. That seems to me to be on key issues. And you could now read those tweets you could read what Mr. Janez Janša said about some women, about individuals, but we're not going anywhere. The fight against hate speech is, in the first place, not only a policy or an individual organisation's decision, but, in my view, the commitment of every individual entering this public discourse, which should all be aware together. The second thing that I think was very bad and that's why the constitutional charge is to deal with the epidemic. While I am happy that tomorrow we will come to the green phase, but we are in politics, also because of the epidemic at the blackest stage. We are or are, at the time of the epidemic you went into repression, you punished people in the end, and the court also told you that you had wrongly punished them, that it was wrong, and there was a bunch of illogical things accepted, that people were running away, that I was not talking about the purchase of vaccines, as my colleagues had already said before me. The second thing that bothers me immeasurably is the attitude of Slovenia towards Europe. We are world champions of how we can spit on our successful Slovenians in Europe and not give them a chance, of course, if we are not ours. We are not capable of one Mr Mark Ilešič and I am embarrassed today that I am publicly apologizing to him in a secret vote to put him in Europe. The man who speaks 10 languages, the man who runs the Senate, the man who will say one of the most successful judges in Europe, no, because of the policy that may belong to the left option, some on the left also did not vote for such an eminent gentleman. We don't know, you can't name two prosecutors in Europe, but the Finns only have two states, and that seems absurd to me because it's not ours. Another thing that I think is the abnormal spitting of Slovenia in Europe at all levels. Spitting how we live in Slovenia and writing letters by the Government. Why are we here, my dears? If we don't honor our beautiful homeland ourselves, who will? Now I'd stop around the STA a little bit. You know, if we consider now the director of the U.S.A. because I know you can change people and it's okay because you know how to recruit, but you're doing it because you don't respect or don't respect the government's common law, which talks about the U.S.A. aside from being, then with the amendment in the PKP-6 you've even compromised this amendment 100 jobs and 100 journalists don't know if they're going to get paid next month and those same journalists who are one of the most plural and most journalists who write without instructions and without any political background. Before Mark said something, Mark wanted to talk about something. When I know where he's headed, I'm sure he's one of the better journalists. Another matter and that seems impossible to me and give me respect for the law, because if you don't respect it, who will, then in this country, still respect the law? So the reasons why the constitutional charge has been duly filed are more in the end, and we will see what the vote will be. I will support this constitutional charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the words to prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. You know, in fact, in this constitutional accusation in this text, I had no intention of speaking at all, because this time everything has been written and rejected and dealt with in this National Assembly, and it is only that someone rides on some subjects that are actually belts, but wants to build some political points, but I have to respond in some part, because this has been said so many times that it seems to me that it is necessary for citizens and citizens, however, to do so. Slovenia has already joined the joint procurement of vaccines in August, and the fact is that we have provided 2 million 287 thousand 951 inhabitants with this order, it is said, a number that is significantly larger than our number of citizens and citizens. So the vaccine's been ordered enough. And please don't fool people. If, in fact, the company that was supposed to deliver these vaccines failed to do so, there was, of course, a backlog in vaccination, but not only in Slovenia, throughout Europe. And the fact is, as a percentage of the vaccinateds, we're successful and you're not talking nonsense about Slovenia giving up anything, and we don't have any vaccines because we gave up something. You're lying. These are official vaccine data, we have enough orders. And the fact is that we did it in time, and at the same time, within the Ministry of Health, there was a special group of experts who also dealt with these things. But the worst thing is, when a man opens yours, I'm sorry, it's a pamphlet for me, look what you wrote in there. Point one. One of the fundamental obligations of the State is the establishment of a functioning health system capable of providing adequate health care for citizens and citizens. The country must take a number of measures to protect health. Good morning! Why do we have waiting periods of species? What did you do with the medical system? Most of the time you've been in power and you're writing things in there today and you're reading it to someone who's been in power for one year and three months and you're also stopping talking about one year and a half, etc. These are your legacy. But, sir, as I said, I'm not going to talk about this text anymore, because I don't think it's that text today. Let's name things with the right name. With hatred. I've been talking about this a while ago. Hate is one of the most powerful emotions, but at the same time the most destructive, but of course it can bring together extremists and that is what this is all about. That's what this is about. You know, everyone you've gathered around KUL, your only common point and the most powerful point is hatred. Hatred of John Janša, hatred of the SDS policy and of anyone who accidentally hopes to join in the form of cooperation. And you know what history has brought in societies based on hatred? Look at the totalitarian regimes, fascism, Nazism, communism, there's always been hatred. If he wasn't an outside enemy, he was inside. And where did that lead to? To the seas. And that's what today is about. You're talking about media issues and working in this country under this government, blaming the media. And that's, that's independent media? These are independent media. You're talking about the street being a dissatisfaction. And let's stop. You're moving hatred to the streets. Is that normal? Are you going to say that the death of Janshism is not a problem? That's not a problem either. And still, today we're talking about us scaring you with the civil war. It's a lie. If you're not able to quote the text, let's talk about what's going on. This is what it's all about. It started with arson. And this is what's happening on our streets today. And where does that lead? We know where these systems have taken us. Therefore, since there must be others in turn, let us not be misled. You don't want to participate, you didn't cooperate, you didn't participate at the invitation of the president of the country, and today you wanted him in front of this booth. You didn't want to co-operate with this coalition in any way, and today you would just criticise that everything is wrong. The whole policy is responsible for the situation in the country. And stop building on hatred. It is not that this is bad for you or for us, it is bad for citizens and citizens. This is bad for a sweet Slovenia who is 30 years old. Wake up!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. I agree with my colleague that we are all responsible, but look. I've said it more than once. I don't hate anyone. Please, presidents, alert you to such failures. If someone's explaining it, let them explain it, but not point. You can say 89, if you want, and even in the SD, you'll find it hard to point out with your finger that we hate anyone in politics. And I've been with you more than my own family for the last seven years, and I'm gonna hate you. I mean, yummy!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I don't think she meant you. Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First, at the beginning of this answer, about the timing thing. Look, we had a reserved day for this debate last week. We had to move a lot of things at this time, which is a triple challenge. And then you throw the agenda of the session and you organise this debate on the day when the government has a meeting, a series of preparatory meetings, and when we have a meeting or mandatory meeting between the government and the presidents of the European Parliament's parliamentary groups, which cannot be postponed because this is one year ahead of schedule. I mean, congratulations to the genius who made this timing. Perhaps it would only be if it were yesterday when the European Council was. And then there's the obvious that there's no one there. At the beginning, a little serious. As far as the charges are concerned, I would say first that the opposition has the right to use instruments that are either in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure or in laws and that there is nothing wrong with them. Maybe it's a little bit wrong with how time is chosen. See, we have been a party for most of the time led by Members of all the National Assembly I was elected to it, have been a 30-year stand-alone parliamentary democracy in Slovenia in opposition and have used various instruments, including a constitutional indictment. But we had a measure. And in most other countries of parliamentary democracy, this measure also exists. It's a time that's normal and it's a time that's critical. And now we're in crisis time, we've got an epidemic. And it's been over a year. And people die for it. Look, you stole our elections, our non-constitutionals, we took our seats, we had enough Members to apply for an extraordinary session every day and block the procedure, and we didn't do that. We have not generally obstructed the meetings, as one of the opposition parliamentary groups has done in recent weeks. A measure of this is also necessary. Otherwise, anything can be written in the texts that the opposition is investing. Even in this constitutional accusation, there are so many absurd things that there is no point in answering everything, and there is no point in arguing about it. The fact that the Constitution is being violated, see, that's the Constitution. I have been a member of the Constitutional Commission, which has adopted this constitution, after long days and nights of meetings together with a fundamental constitutional charter before, which is actually the beginning of the life of real parliamentary democracy in a single country, and I know what it says in this Constitution. We went through every line. And now, under this constitutional charge, there is a signed parliamentary group which has in its programme the breakdown of this Constitution. This is the Constitution of Parliamentary Democracy, Slovenia is a democratic republic and all institutions of government in this country are based on parliamentary democracy, on representative democracy, you are a representative body, you elect a government, you adopt laws, you appoint judges, a third branch of power. More than half of the articles in this Constitution are based on and implementation of representative democracy. And now the party that has written in its programme to end the representative democracy and replace it with a system that we once had, and from which we just left 30 years ago, is a clear violation of the Constitution. The same party states in its programme that it opposes private property and the market economy. In this constitution, the social market system is enshrined as the basis for how we regulate economic relations in this country. So look, these are very absurd findings. Maybe it's just more absurd that I'm endangering healthy drinking water. Under this clear, respected colleagues and colleagues, you have signed those who have been collecting signatures for the last few weeks for a referendum against the law, in which 40 million are designed to regulate watercourses so they will not swim. And because it is forbidden that tycoons, your tycoons, build villas on the Slovenian coast and on the coast of anger [[?]] . This law prohibits and you have now collected signatures to reject the referendum law and now I am threatening healthy drinking water, so we have come a long way. When we are talking about the epidemic and these readings, it must be acknowledged that Slovenia had a severe second wave of the epidemic, that it is not yet over, that we still have numbers far above what was last year at the same time in the first wave. The debate itself should begin at the beginning. See, this is, I think you also have on screen, this is a joint external assessment of the Republic of Slovenia made by the World Health Organization, which was here between 5 and 9 June 2017. This report contains everything Slovenia should do to prepare for the epidemic. It's very accurate about where the flaws are and so on. None of this was done by 13 March 2020, none of which was done. Nothing. I doubt at all that this report was considered by the then government at all. Nor did anyone hand it over to us at the time of the handover, but we took responsibility one day after the outbreak was declared. He was accidentally discovered by the new director of the National Institute of Public Health. See, if what the World Health Organization of Slovenia recommended three years before the epidemic was done, then today we would not have 4,000 or more deaths due to Covid, but maybe half or at least two thirds. A thousand human lives would be saved. Now to expect everything to be done overnight, which is not long before, even though we were officially warned, is, of course, a little over. Here, on the next graph, you see how effective we were, because it's one of the signs of infection. This is the rate of death as a result of Covid. We had high numbers, very many infections in the second wave and also many dead, only if we look at percentages of those who were infected and who were sick actually died, then we should congratulate Slovenian health care and thank him very much. This comparison could be even higher, but, less effectively, the health systems in Italy, Poland, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic and in at least ten other European countries were better than us, the Austrians, the little Dutch who had the highest health capacity, and yet in the second wave of 2 weeks the Netherlands had a situation that did not manage and drove patients to Germany. We did not have to do this because, in the meantime, thanks to the current Minister of Health, we built up the capacity overnight and allowed our patients to be treated at home. Of course, people don't just die because of Covid. Look, here you have data on how many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens die a year after cancer, and these are numbers that are even higher than Covid and last year we also have a combination of cancer patients who got Covid because they were even more at risk and see, and here people are dying because of too long waiting lines and you have to wonder what they've done in the last decade to make these waiting species shorter? Where public funds were invested, for these kinds to be eliminated, and for people to come as soon as a disease was discovered, and so on, to intervene. How many of these thousands who have died of cancer in recent years died because they had to wait too long for surgery? Or because it was too late? All of this depends on capacity and on the system and so on, so this debate can be very long and in no case will it be limited to Covid alone. [[…]] Let's look at some data we've invested in over the last ten years, family policy, we have the eighth oldest population in the world, from 2009 to 2019, 367 million euros. At that time, your governments paid 706 million euros to NGOs. How much of this has been justified can be judged, but it certainly is not equivalent. [[Incomprehensible]] You can't give NGOs more than you can give for youth and the future or, now, if we're at Covid's, and in health care, investment in hospitals, as well as all the other investments, in fact in the public sector, especially in education, in the last ten years, a good 700 million just for national television, at that time almost a billion. We probably need national television, but one medium is more important than all health care, and the whole education or investment is not going to convince me. It is said that there was a huge hole and when you translate this data into concrete investments and into hospital work and medical equipment, and on the number of doctors, and on their salaries on the salaries of nurses and so on, then you get waiting types and consequences due to waiting for medical interventions. Now Covid is significantly more threatening the elderly and we have seen the most deaths in nursing homes where many of these homes simply didn't have the opportunity to organize the red zone as it should be, according to the rules, because if space is not already in normal time, you can't do it at the time of the epidemic. In the ten years from 2009 to 2019, it was for building a home for the elderly, although no one is built, and it is only for adaptations to the 25 million euro spent in ten years, says 2 million and a half euros per year. At the same time, you gave NGOs with only one title, Metelkova 6 in Ljubljana, 46 million. Tell me a national achievement that someone has remembered from non-governmental organisations located at the title of Metelkova 6 in Ljubljana. Significantly more for them than for 20,000 of our older fellow citizens who were in nursing homes at that time, and 10,000 more who were waiting for their turn. We have put in Slovenian hospitals over the last ten years or up to 2020, as regards investments, capacity building, 400 million for national television and for STA over a billion at that time. When you look at these numbers backwards and when you weigh on development policy over a period of time, all clear, look, everything is clear, and in this light, the evidence of the constitutional accusation sounds very loose. However, even if it is not a waste of time on my part to deal with a topic from which there will be nothing, we may also see as a response to some of the predictions that are set forward. Because if a person reads your text, somehow it comes to the conclusion that we are before the collapse, that we are only a little short, then Slovenia will crush itself, that it is a pure disaster, which is not a disaster, but a dictatorship. Let us see how others see us or where we are in real comparison. Recently, the European Commission has issued forecasts, macroeconomic forecasts for the whole euro area and for the Member States of the European Union and these forecasts allow comparisons. These forecasts are better than last autumn's forecasts for us, and for some countries and Slovenia, after economic growth this year is in the sixth place. We have moved to the first quarter of the European Union on the basis of an assessment that is likely to be improved by the end of the year. This forecast, of course, also allows for certain corrections or a certain upgrade to the budget documents, which means that we will be able to make some necessary investments even more than we planned last year. And this forecast also shows that Slovenia can make up for the exit from last year at the latest at the beginning of the following year, it is said that we can return after development, after economic growth to the pre-crisis level, and this is three times more optimistic than it was, as it circled through institutions at the same time last year. When we look at last year's unemployment rate, Slovenia is also found at one of the lowest unemployment rates listed among the first quarter of the European Union Member States. I was recently on a visit to Greece, and we had a bilateral with the Spanish Prime Minister, and now you see where Spain and Greece are on this scale. They both said we don't have unemployment, but we have full employment. And in fact, if you ask entrepreneurs, the problem is in some sectors to get people for well-paid jobs, problems are in service activities, especially in tourism due to the epidemic. But if it's over when the epidemic is over, which we believe is at the door, it will also stop and our problem will not be unemployment, but it will be the requalification of certain professions and, of course, the search for additional labour. And the forecasts for next year are good. As far as we're concerned, we're close to full employment, and it seems to be all the reasons for optimism. We listen to a lot of evidence as to how Slovenia has committed itself, how it has increased its public debt in last year and how it is a major disaster. Recently, we have even heard the obvious that we have distributed money to people. We understand that because it comes from the mouth of those who have distributed money to NGOs and to banks. But people are left only as payers of these debts. In relation to this public debt, it must be said that Slovenia has reached the farthest favourable place or favourable treatment in the financial markets. That we could issue bonds for 60 years, which was unimaginable a few years ago. And that we could even repay ourselves at a negative interest rate. This means that when we borrowed the money we borrowed, we also got paid to borrow it. This has happened for the first time in our history and the situation is not the same as it was 7 years ago or 8 years ago, when interest rates were 5% and when Mr Križanič was able to issue a bond for 5 years, he was happy. And we probably all know that there's some debt if you have to pay back in five years, and the other is if you have to pay it back at six. Well, now let's see where we were after a public debt in the euro area, because these are comparable data, in 2019 we were in 11th place, somewhere in the middle. This is because we were the country that had the most public debt in the euro area during the economic and financial crisis. In 2008, before the government was taken over by the Social Democrats, Slovenia owed 22% of its annual GDP. We're at the top of the crisis in 80%. And at high interest rates and with the validity of the Maastricht criteria. Last year, the European Union released the Maastricht criteria. All the countries were in debt. And now let's look at these ghastly signs of where we are after the public debt of 2020, it is at the time of the epidemic. Look, you'll find us exactly the same place. All EU Member States have committed themselves about the same because we were dealing with the epidemic and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic. Exactly in the same place you will find us because we are part of the euro area, part of the same criteria and the situation has not deteriorated completely, as far as the debt structure itself has improved due to negative or low interest rates. This is also a forecast for this year and next year. Slovenia can be found in exactly the same place. No drastic leap as far as the debt is concerned is concerned nor does it concern abnormal public financial interventions in terms of debt vis-à-vis other euro area Member States in such a way as not to trigger demagogies. The following data will also show where this money landed. Now I don't have all the data here, but we have, at this time, to subsidise the reduced working time, and we have saved up to 100,000 jobs and this is in itself a value, so after unemployment we are also good compared to others. We have been among the most successful with this instrument. We have distributed a lot of this money as a mitigation of the consequences of the epidemic to the population, especially those most at risk: pensioners with low pensions as well as students and through tourist vouchers received a certain subsidy from all residents. In this picture you have the rate of gross savings in households as a percentage of GDP. Also due to these measures, the funds saved by people during the epidemic in Slovenia have increased on average. Slovenia jumped to 4th place. We have outrun Germany, which has been ahead of us for a long time is said to take this relative to the number of inhabitants and so on Slovenia has saved more people during the epidemic. Here we go, then a graph. Now why is this information important? This information is important because it proves where the money went. Show these graphs for Mrs Bratušek for 2013 and 2014 what they were like. And secondly, because this means that Slovenia has reserves, that at the end of the epidemic, when there are no more measures and when there is greater business optimism, people can invest, buy things that are not previously, because of different risks, build houses, rebuild houses, apartments and so on, all in addition to increasing personal well-being, which is key to economic growth and economy. So this money wasn't given to someone in their pocket to get rid of it, but it would ultimately contribute to good macroeconomic indicators. On this basis, there will be more in public treasury, on the basis of which there will be more resources for public investment, and on the basis of this it will also be possible to lower taxes and with lower taxes there will be more investment in the economy and more investment in the economy will also be more well-paid jobs and more inflows back into the budget. A very simple calculation, which has not yet come to the left half of Slovenian political space. Here they are, then deposits of Slovenian households in business banks. At the time of the crisis, they increased by a few billion, and they also grew in the first quarter of this year, meaning that these reserves are significantly over 20 billion, which, of course, is also greater liquidity of the banking sector, which can credit the economy more and more easily, and the situation is completely different than it was at the time of the worst wave of the financial and economic crisis. Then we have here information about the current situation of the Kovid because there is a lot of talk about vaccines in this text and so on. Slovenia is according to recorded data and real data are about a day and a half late, as the 48 hour deadline for entering these vaccination data into the system is even better. Well, but the official data for yesterday, what was introduced into the system is that at the first dose of 636 thousand vaccines and some of our fellow citizens, with a second dose of 348 thousand. Percentage is the first 37, practically the second over 20. And of course, because of the severe second wave, we also have 242 thousand fellow citizens who have been over the anchor and who do not yet need to be vaccinated. Six months after she got over it. So, immunity, at least partial immunity, because after the first dose, except for Astra Zeneco, we're talking about partial population immunity by number, we're there about 900 thousand. We are not yet inoculating young people, but only in recent days have regulators approved some vaccines for under 18 and 16 years, which I think will make it possible to start school to a large extent in the autumn. Well, for preoccupation or immunity, transplantation plus an effective disease, stopping the epidemic, we need a few hundred thousand more vaccinateds. And as we have repeatedly predicted, we will reach these numbers by summer. There have been many discussions about how this is not real. According to the data you're seeing, it's real. As far as comparisons are concerned, we are somewhere on the EU average, where we receive vaccines for the war. If we forgot to order them, we wouldn't be on average. We'd be, I don't know, about a third or a quarter. So talking to your mind is easy. It's something else to give information. However, there are some countries in Europe that are above average and where the problem of vaccination is the same as with us. We are interested in more than the weekly doses of vaccines. Some countries have gone in a different direction, saying they are getting more vaccines than they are interested in. And next week, we will receive an additional 300,000 doses from one of these countries to reach the desired target of transplantation by summer. So it can be expected that the epidemic, now announced by mid-June, is the last such announcement, the last meal of it, and that we will then be able to pass into some transitional time of escape from the epidemic, when most of the measures can be further eliminated when some preventive measures are still needed. However, when we can also use new regulation such as the EU certificate or as, before this was adopted, name a digital green certificate, but also travel freely across Europe, across borders, provided that we are vaccinated. Otherwise, we will have to test ourselves and the patients are treated equally as vaccinated. Now that we have heard at the European Summit, we can expect this to prove operational even in mid-June to be properly covered by the end of the formal epidemic in our country, and from then on we expect to return to normality at least as we expected or as we did last year. Now, if we combine this with macroeconomic indicators and these forecasts plus with the additional incentives that we will receive through the national recovery plan that we have given to the first, then we have every reason to see a year of recovery ahead of us, which will be faster than the average of the European Union members and which will be able to bring Slovenia back to the pre-crisis record-breaking time at the same time for the second half of a year of enough vaccines, enough and more vaccines for the third dose that we will need to maintain immunity and also certain reserves for solidarity, where Slovenia will also help those who will not be vaccinated after we have reached these criteria. So there's no such thing as a disaster and an icy mountain, and I don't know what's on this constitutional charge. We have a very optimistic time ahead of us unless we just spoil it. What can prevent these prohibitions from being realized? Perception continues, shooting in the back at the time of the epidemic. Organization of conventions where thousands of people will be associated without protective measures. The call through networks of people should not be vaccinated, and I do not know what else we can hear or see in groups that have thousands and tens of thousands of members, as well as many visible names. These are things that can slow recovery and growth can't stop it by taking this train away and proposing to those who counted on it to get rid of these illusions. Instead, we are now formally calling for cooperation for the third time. Recovery and resilience are also a major challenge. There will be important legal acts on your bench that are necessary for this recovery not only to be quick but also to be just. One of these acts is the Long-Terms Act 128. I think it's on the government now. 127 did not reach the government, but it is likely that millions of euros have been paid for this study so far and I invite everyone to join forces and this extremely difficult but necessary financial means to be put through the procedure as soon as possible. Now another such law, which is needed not only for recovery, but also for resistance, is the Health Investments and Partial Long-Term Care Act, which will continue for the next few weeks on your benches and will cover for the first time those investments that we have not been able to place in the National Recovery Plan so that the picture will be rounded up and that we will also directly address the massage of those holes in the health system and in the long-term care system that require a more targeted approach to the location and to the horizontal structure, I hope that this will be enough. We are trying to respond constructively in the context of a debate on a rather destructive instrument, and in some ways I am also appealing to the opposition in this National Assembly, so that at least these procedural moves do not impede normal work. As it is only with this suspension of the session from or, breaking up the regular meeting at two extraordinary sessions, I have not had problems alone, including the whole Government, taking over the files in Brussels, and the Government is practically every week in Brussels, these are the terms that are agreed in advance, which are necessary, because it is a matter of Slovenia showing responsibility to the whole of the European Union and it is impossible to organise if we do not even know when the meeting, when something will be on the agenda and when some procedure will be concluded. One appeal to greater understanding. If you collect enough votes, put another government in place, but until you can't do that, don't set it up where it's bad for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Jani Möderndorfer, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u93	Yes, Prime Minister, now, don't think you've misled us all here together, with this introduction you've made. The fact is, you haven't answered any of the constitutional charges. You just come in, you say, you say things that have nothing to do with the constitutional charge, and then you get up and go, says the most about you. What is the way of respecting this National Assembly and what you actually think of this act itself? What is more important is the need to say out loud - whether the President may be a little or a Vice-President [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u94	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u95	What is important to know with the constitutional charge itself and what the President of the Government has not actually said is, when he tells us here, what is right and what is wrong and when it is right to convene a meeting and how hard he has a job and how busy he is every day and how difficult it is to adapt to the National Assembly. [[Incomprehensible]] Tuesday was the only day when the Cabinet of Presidents informed the Government that it was a day where they could not actually have, it is said, that the President of the Government could not attend such a meeting. For all the rest of the days, the Cabinet of the Prime Minister kept his mouth shut. That's why I'm here today, in the hall and telling you how unfair we really are to them, when they do this, I think it's extremely, I think, misleading, misleading and, in fact, unfair from the President of the Government. Today he spoke everything, a skilled manipulator – a skilled manipulator – talking about unemployment, education, investment, NGOs, visits abroad, bilateral relations, debts and so on and so on. But he didn't say anything about the D.A.'s, the D.A.'s, the D.A.'s, he didn't say anything about the STA, and then he asks us here not to speculate at the time of the outbreak. I'm sorry, but I'll say otherwise. Dear Prime Minister, can you, at least during the epidemic, respect the law and do by law what you must do as Prime Minister of the Government? That's what I'm supposed to be talking about today. Today even Attorney General Sketa held a press conference where he said the following, what this Government wants to do today, and will probably even vote today at the government's meeting on this matter. You know that the procedure of the Delegated Prosecutors, unfortunately some Members do not separate what the State Prosecutors are, what the Delegated Prosecutors are, mix pears and apples, and then tell in their performances who and when the Government has the right to act and in what case the Government is acting, is, of course, more than a clear statement by the Attorney-General – if the Government will actually adopt a decision that is reported by the media and repeals the whole procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, this would, in the opinion of the Attorney-General, Drage Scete, be an arbitrary intervention in the independence and independence of the Attorney-General. Where are you now, colleagues, when you're talking about where is the evidence of the constitutional charge itself or the violation of the laws and the Constitution? If you do not believe the Members who have drawn up this proposal, do you believe at least the professions? No, no, no. You're just going through it. What is important is to stress the following: my colleague, I will start with the first colleague who discussed the debate, Eva Irgle, when she said Mrs Irgle did not find a violation of the Constitution, she quotes. She didn't find a violation of the Constitution. I'm helping you, Mrs. Eva Irgle. I'm helping you. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution, freedom of expression, freedom of expression, speech and public expression of the press and other forms of public information and expression. Anyone can freely choose, receive and disseminate conscience and opinions. Why is the President of the Government stopping the financing of the STA? Because he felt guilty about his visit, less words were written about him than about a culturer who then had an interview. By the way, in the part where this news was published, what is free and publicly available, there were no fewer words. No less words. Article 39 of the Constitution makes this very clear, but it does not. I would understand if it were his personal mantra and it would be hard for him to go into some personal lawsuit and seek justice, etc. No, he, as Prime Minister of the Government, allows himself simply to determine the story in his own way, and that is to say, these agencies, which are, in fact, 100% of the country's own, will no longer be financed, and Mrs Eva Irgle knows nothing or sees nothing at all. She doesn't see a violation of the Constitution here. In short, what matters to me is, above all, that the President of the Government is not here today and he did not want to answer very clearly where he was stealing time for some nonsense or what he said, we are wasting and losing words and he will simply not comment. The President of the Government, what we should respond to, is more than clear, are basically the violations you have committed directly and they are. As far as vaccines are concerned, there is a violation, a suspension of duty, and this is that at the time when the Minister of Health was also the Minister of Health, he did not order vaccines, 900 000 vaccines. We know what we're talking about. It's not the vaccines we get at the end of the year, it's the vaccines we could use, and it's the magic limit that he's talking about today. He said it was important to talk about the data, not just something in mind, but over the finger. Look, this is data from the NICU from yesterday. It's been data since yesterday. And today he explained that we would achieve a splintering somewhere by mid-June. So let's say that he didn't express himself and he didn't define what percentages are whether it's 50, 60, 70, let's say we take the gold in the middle, let's say we're talking about at least 60% of the graft. Yesterday, in Slovenia, 16.6% were vaccinated. Tell me how in the 30 days we will achieve 60% vaccination, but if the media are already reporting that the vaccine is not enough. Thousands of 200 were dismissed because they could not be revaccinated, only those who were vaccinated with a second dose could be vaccinated. That's what I'm talking about. And what are the consequences of not ordering the vaccines in time? Today he's talking about the booming economy and what I know about everything else. But it wasn't worth ordering a vaccine, and that's why he's responsible, and he's the only one responsible, no one else. Not the expert committee for vaccines, neither on NIJZ, none of these are to blame. The president of the government, Janez Janša, is also responsible for all those who were not vaccinated in time because there were no vaccines. There is so much courage in this President of the Government that he is afraid to be in front of Members and defend himself to the obvious. Comes, says, talks about things that have nothing to do with the constitutional charge, gets up and goes. Who else believes this man? He's afraid of his own shadow. He believes some fictional story that he makes himself, probably because it's a problem of these eccentric people repeating a nonstop fantasy that they actually believe in these fictions and live up to this fiction. D.A.'s delegates. This story won't end well. Today it has been said that I do not know how many countries have not yet appointed these prosecutors, forgive me, we will be precise, we will talk about the data, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Denmark and Ireland have said publicly that they will not participate in this concept of Delegated Prosecutors and therefore we will appoint these countries not to propose prosecutors is extremely unfair and unfair and purely misleading, only two other countries, including our own. And this is the pride with which someone boasts and says it's nice that since this government about Europe everyone knows where Slovenia is and what Slovenia is. Then of course we have these unfortunate STAs, tell me, tell me very simply. What are you going to tell these families who won't get paid? What are you going to say, not just to the employees? You know that each employee probably has his own circle and some responsibilities. They probably have some loans to pay for. But not because the company is bad, not because the business company is something that floats into red numbers by its own fault. No, no, no. Simply because the President of the Government does not respect the law and the Constitution. One of you say and today you have been vehemently saying that UKOM is very important and that, of course, it has a role and that if someone is paying, then you can also request, yes, of course, you are right, I agree with you, but the government has named in this contract a UKOM as representative and guardian of the contract? Is the law clear and clear, in fact, who can ask for documentation? And when there is a paradox, when the story is drawn to infinity, and when the U.S.A. finally decides to send documents to which, of course, this unfortunate UKOM has no right to send to the government, the government will gently reject this documentation. And we watch and we don't believe and we think that we live in some imaginary world when we watch on TV, how that god postman or courier or whatever it is, is carrying that documentation back to the government, and back from the government to the STA, and back from STA back to the government and so on and so forth and now these documents are there on the government, but the money is still gone. He's still gone. Tell me what else you want. You will be able to amend the STA Act, change the status of the STA form and determine how the Director is appointed and how any President of the Government could have an agency next to UKOM every day to take care of what will be written about it. We don't want that Orbanization. But what the President of the Government had now afforded, he wasted his time at his disposal to defend the constitutional charge, which I think is right, and he should have done it in the morning, but he was just a political pamphlet. At first I thought he was wrong, that he thought he came to another session, that he came to a meeting or a rally of truths that they have down there in Gorenjska every year. You'll be doing this in a month, not now, we're in the National Assembly. Regrettably, sadly, where this suit and co-responsibility are also borne by all the coalition Members who have put this National Assembly and the status of this body to such a low level that you agree that your President will decide practically everything that will happen in the National Assembly. That's the worst thing that has consequences, of course. With regard to these indicators and, I'll say, these predictions by the Prime Minister, you know, time will show what is true and what is not. I'm afraid the truth will be completely different. Certain traumas and pains will, of course, occur. And it's not gonna be that simple. Of course, I wish it were twice as good as the Prime Minister said, but unfortunately it won't. I'm afraid not. But this Prime Minister forgot one thing. Every thing ends, one way or another, every thing. And when this nation is finished, he will not have a monument.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković has the floor and will be discussed by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u97	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Institute of Constitutional Prosecution shall also apply to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and all other officials, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when they are found or when their highest or most serious forms of responsibility are identified, which constitute a violation of the Constitution and constitute a violation of the laws. Infringements must achieve such a level of importance or seriousness that the constitutional charge is a suitable response to these alleged violations. And this proposal for a constitutional indictment, which is before us today and which we are addressing, is sufficient to meet these criteria, in my humble opinion. If I recall the first constitutional charge in this mandate, i.e. against Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who earned it after only four and a half months, it seems to me that the conduct of disregarding a constitutional decision imposing private school funding arrangements is a constitutional charge, where the Prime Minister is faced with extremely serious matters, how serious and justified. The findings set out in the constitutional indictment are such that they are extremely receptive both in the local, regional and European areas. While consciously rejecting these doses of vaccines, cruel intervention in the media, destruction of the STA, pressure on the prosecution, halting the appointment of state prosecutors, delaying awareness of the selected candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor and, of course, now the intention to annul this procedure of choosing these prosecutors and everything else covered in this constitutional indictment, how else could this be understood as acts which are extremely severe and which have, in fact, been in fact somehow deranged or so far has not been made clear to any of the officials in the history of independent Slovenia. And, of course, it is not too much to repeat that in our country so far, including this today, we have had seven constitutional charges, we can say eight. And everything except today was filed by the SDS party. And if we remember, three were against Janez Drnovska, one was against President Türk, then one was against Alenka Bratušek, who somehow did not wait for her epilogue, if I may mention it, then one against Mir Cerar and, of course, against Marjan Šarc, as previously said, and now this one. Before that, there was talk of hatred, like an extremely dangerous feeling that I agree with. Actually, my colleague and I agree with a lot of things she said about hate. However, if we make a point and say that it was obvious that the opposition was led by hatred to make this constitutional accusation, only to define seven previous constitutional charges. What led the opposition back then to the execution or filing of these constitutional charges? Therefore, as my colleague Franc Trček said, I find it difficult to believe that we hate each other here, we have the opposite opinion, and I respect these conflicting opinions, I believe that you, too, respect my own, and here should be the end of all things, but it has happened that we have dared to make this proposal of a constitutional indictment against the President of the Government in opposition, and now it has become all at once wrong despite the fact that we have an extraordinary situation, despite the fact that the epidemic is at a stage of what it is, but nevertheless these allegations are clearly stated in this constitutional accusation that we cannot go beyond that. If we recall the constitutional charge that was made against the then President of the Government of Charz, we could then read various statements by legal experts, that it was a political circus, that this legal institute was meant for the most extreme cases, for example, if the President of the Republic usurped power or used the army and the police to prosecute citizens and see how they then hit the core of today. There was another difference between the constitutional charge at the time against Sharc and today's constitutional charge against the Prime Minister of the Government of Janša, then the Constitutional action against Sharc stated that he had committed a crime, a misdemeanour in his service under Article 257 of the Penal Code, which did not even exist under this Article. You just made up a story at the time. Now either it was a mistake or it was intended not to be an assessment, but it shows the difference between the seriousness of the then constitutional charge and today's. If you could not then make an effort to gather this right article in the Codex of Penalties, then today we also have serious evidence that you cannot say that hatred has led us or that there has already been a constitutional charge. As I have said, the findings are serious and in this case serious debate must also be held. I have also heard today that this case is an abuse of the constitutional charge. If you truly believe, I will return the ball a little, if you really believe that this is the easiest way to prove it by supporting the charge and then by the Constitutional Court it will be determined whether the institution is being abused or not being abused. Of course I will, because of these perceptions, therefore, which are listed from the grave interference with the media from the STA of all the stories concerning the prosecutions itself also supported the constitutional charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u98	The word will be given to Marijan Pojbič and will be discussed by Jerco Korča. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u99	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must make it very clear that I am extremely proud of the President of the Government of Janez Janša, my President, the President of my party, the most powerful party in Slovenia of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today, when he spoke, he would have heard a mouse walking around the Hall of the National Assembly and argued, demonstrated and proved that he was a great man, that he had a width, that he was a visionary, that he had a vision, and with the results you had seen on the screens proved that what you were doing was a complete manipulation, trying to destroy this government, trying to destroy the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša. Your only goal is to attack a man who knows what he wants, who takes this country to where they are and wants it, those who have conquered this country and you have a huge problem in Levica, SD, LMŠ the entire coalition cool in that because you obviously have no interest in Slovenia being a independent country. Today I listened to Mr Koprivec, I must say that I was going to throw up, what he was saying, what attacks, what an outburst of anger. And when I listened to Bandell, for example, the same thing, he just doesn't know what he's saying. Unfortunately, I have to say this. And when I listen to Levi, with constant attacks and look, in some democratic system, the party of the Left should be banned by law because the Hustian, the dispersion, the hate, the work, the call for rebellion and so on and so on. That would be the right thing to do. And then we have a client and Alenka Bratušek, who sings Communist songs and songs at concerts, Europe is a gang of thieves, and you will speak and file a constitutional charge against the government and the coalition and against the president, of course, the government, Mr Janez Janša, who works for the people. And then I listened, that's all I'd show you, look at what you did at the time of the biggest epidemic, look at who's in this picture, let this Slovenian people see when you describe inside the constitutional accusation, how to take care of health, how to invite people to be vaccinated and so on and so forth. And what you've been doing, look at this picture, look who's in this picture, take this, once this theft of the truth. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u100	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u101	And I listened to you, never said anything, so I expect you to listen to me to the end. And I, because I have very little time, will also try to finish as quickly as possible, you're lucky, of course, because I have a lot more to say and I'll say it again when the time is right. I will, of course, object to this constitutional accusation because, in my opinion, it is shameful, false, and especially because it has been filed by the parties I have spoken of and I have shown a picture of. Then it is clearly known that there is manipulation and abuse of this institution as well, political personal or client's narrow interests before the elections and attempts, in any way to reach election votes, including fraud, lies and deception, and you have been doing it all through, since you have been in this political space, whether you have been elected to the National Assembly or not. You don't work for people, but you work for narrow groups that are privileged, living as small gods and that's unfair, we want a just society and a just state. That's what Mr. Janez Janša showed and proved today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u102	Thank you very much. First he gets the word of Jerz Korča, and then Jani Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we have witnessed the first few hours of yawning into the void of a chair, then the Lord was pleased to enter this hall, to hold a lecture for half an hour, which has nothing to do with the findings of the constitutional charge, it is only a smoke undertaking or the release of fog and the creation of mud water that shifts those arguments, which, of course, in the constitutional charge, stand, are reasoned, written with violations of the precisely defined articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this is what the great, so-called, only proclaimed Democrat, who is democracy and everything we have in this country, our foundations, our interpretation in his own way and in some parallel world, the parallel world of his own truths, does things the way he does. Now, of course, all the problems that have been brought down in this lecture stem from the past, from the past, which is not an integral part of Janez Janša, because it is necessary to understand that Janez Janša entered Slovenian political space on 13 March 2020, took over the government and he did not take part in the problems that might have accumulated in the country during these thirties. No, he is the solution to the future of this country and, of course, he has been “transmitting” to us how he was involved in writing the Constitution. Of course, he is an advocate of the rule of law, he is a true Democrat, and in such a way that the courts, one of the branches of power, respect just enough to make fun of them by not lifting mail. And with regard to European Delegated Prosecutors, which is one of the indications concrete in the constitutional indictment, today received from the party, of course, I will say how he would paraphrase this, probably some subjugation of an imaginary deep state by the grey uncles of a public argument that if the entire appointment process was annulled, the first State Prosecutor made it clear that this would constitute an arbitrary intervention in the independence and independence of the prosecutors and a decision that is illegal and contrary to the Constitution. But of course, what does this man know about law, what does this man know about our laws, what this man knows about procedures, but if we only have enough of the empty chair that is here today, which knows more about everything than everyone else. That's another thing. This empty chair is with us today, or not with us, that void takes the laws adopted in this National Assembly as some self-service trade, as something that you selectively choose or will obey or disregard, because who is the National Assembly, who are we, who is the people, and who are the representatives of the people, to adopt laws that should then be taken into account by the executive branch of power. Moreover, a step further allows the Slovenian press agency, which was present on the eve of independence, in the setting up of this country, and which has been maintaining objective reporting and providing services not only to our media, but also to foreign media, that this same press agency is today before it saves the people. But pay attention, this same people with donations, this same people who are taxpayers and have already invested money for STA in the budget. Of course, it is this emptiness that is essentially alive today in the hall, the one who in fact uses every statement to manipulate, deceive or even lie, and we should stop today after all this lecture and after all these slides so that the fact, the fact of fact, check what it holds today and what it does not hold, because every time the same story repeats itself. He suggests something, he shows some tables, he tells some facts, and then when a person goes to check it out, or they hold those statements, he finds that that's not the case. For example, in the case of the Delegated Prosecutors, we have heard that the Government is not a post office, and nowhere in Europe do they have cases arranged in this way, and when a person goes down to look at what is truth and what is not, he realizes that a few countries have similar procedures as our country does, I think 15 countries in Europe. And of course, because of this self-proclaimed self-reliant posture, it also embraces the right to break the foundations on which this country was founded. Far from it. Even if he was involved in the process of self-reliance, that does not mean the right to destroy those foundations that were laid at the time. Even less, this means that the country is owned by anyone, not me, not him, not anyone, because in Slovenia it has power over the Constitution but the people. This is the same people who are so afraid, and this is the same people who stood for him in protest with banners, and today this same people is standing on the streets and protesting. At that time, they stood practically for the same reasons as today. Then to set up democracy, and today to preserve or restore democracy in all its segments. And in fact, the empty chair that is there today, which also fears the obvious debate with Members and Members in essence symbolizes this sacrifice of an individual who is still being hunted by some Sivolasi uncle from the depths and this chair symbolizes in essence the empty understanding of democracy that is actually within it. And yes, in fact, how very empty must be the man who, for his inability to manage the country even at the time of the epidemic, seeks excuses in the people and marks the protest of the people even for a crime and here, of course, involves a lie that after the protests, 14 days after the protests, the infections will grow enormously and look at it the fraction happens exactly the opposite trend and undermines this lie. Now let's take a look at the vaccine. Of course, he said that Slovenia ordered vaccines. Exactly what the gentleman said from the empty chair of this, of course, the management of the Ministry of Health took over on 18 December and three weeks after that, i.e. on 8 January he claimed the following, quote: for the first time, I am hearing that Slovenia should give up anything, on the contrary, since I am temporarily doing this function, we have ordered an additional million doses of vaccine and we are talking about such a number today. We order any additional vaccines as soon as possible. Lies as the following dates follow: On 15 December, the European Commission activated the option to purchase additional amounts of Biontech, Pfizer and Moderna vaccine. Three days later on 18 December Janša took over the management of the Ministry of Health and Member States are discussing the distribution of the vaccine almost three weeks, that is until the beginning of January. So, Mr, who then took over the management of the Ministry of Health and lied to the Prime Minister today and, of course, did not respond in his political pamphlet today to the obvious why we did not order additional doses of the vaccine. After all, it doesn't matter because these people would be able to choose, because a lot of people wanted to vaccinate with Pfizer, of course, we know what was going on with AstraZeneca, and if he was speculating because of the price, then it's bullshit to speculate about the price. Of course, it is understandable that if we were mediators in Slovenia and thus indirectly could have earned another friend, we could have ordered differently from what was happening in the masks, there were no such intermediaries and there was negligence, there was negligence, which has consequences, and this is an omen in a constitutional charge that has not been challenged today because it is difficult for a person to give them, if things are so exact and the documents are still coming from Europe. If you look at the second case, this is the STA, this National Assembly of Colleagues and colleagues has passed the law, Article 66 of the CAP, and I will slowly read what is written in this article. Notwithstanding whether the founder has concluded a contract referred to in the first indent of Article 20, paragraph 1, of the State Budget Act of 2021 for the performance of the public service, the STA shall be provided with funds in accordance with the adopted business plan for 2021. The business plan shall be adopted, irrespective of whether the contract with the founder is signed, as the article states, money shall be provided for the performance of the public service. And in this part, when the government as the executive branch of the government does not respect the article adopted in this National Assembly, if this is not sufficient reason for any member to support the constitutional charge or even more not to support such a government, then it has evaluated its function, evaluated the functioning of this National Assembly, evaluated the legislative branch of the authorities, evaluated the Constitution, which speaks of three branches of power. And what else did it do to break the foundations of democracy? How far do we have to go, and what arguments could any of the coalition partners and those who support this, what else should we have for you in the opposition, and for this – what? – labelled as disruptors. Yes, ma'am, nothing more than the defenders of the Constitution, based on some of the standards that apply in our country. Because if such an exact article as this National Assembly has adopted, the executive branch of power does not respect, then I do not know any more any specific arguments to you that these coats may look a little wider, that things work very strangely and that never happened in our country, that someone would so interfere with the adopted law and ignore it because it so remembered. Then let us tell the citizens, every citizen can remember that he will not respect any law and there will be no sanctions. Then let the economy just write the laws, as they fit, every sector. Whether this is communicated to citizens if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not respect the adopted law. These are narrow views of what is the problem, so that we can show you on a specific occasion that things are going very badly. But the broader view is, of course, some chaos in our country, because there are double rules that govern one rule, and people are subject to other rules. And every day a lot of people ask me where we're going, what's going on. Yes, of course, because every day they observe the affairs of this government. Not a day goes by when an affair doesn't happen. Not a day goes by when someone doesn't get attacked. No one is immune anymore, an independent institution, the Court of Auditors, the anti-corruption commission, an information officer. Whoever gives the opinion is discredited, he's being attacked. Moreover, it goes a step further for these things to appear in Europe, and from Europe back we are strangely watched what is happening to prosecutors, what is happening to the press agency. And all this is not because of that gentleman in the empty chair and his emptyness of thinking about the future and the capture of the past. It is happening, as one SDS member said today, that we are all responsible for the future and for politics. We're all responsible. And me, and we're not afraid of that responsibility in the List of Marjan Sarcas. The responsibilities of people to tell how this matter will move forward and this country will move forward. If the SDS is able to obtain a two-thirds majority in elections, it is legitimate to change social order into such desired autonomy or democracy. But he doesn't have that legitimacy. However, they are, of course, able to take steps against this and their policies, and Janez Janša can carry out his vision of the other republic because of the opportunism of individual Members with names and surnames that would never cross the threshold of this Parliament if they made it clear before the elections what they would do after the elections or how their spines would turn. And may this be your esteemed colleague, Jurša of Desus, your esteemed colleague Simonovich of Desus, I do not know what leads them, but it is right to plead. Let them say that, by the end of the term of office, they will be supporting developments in our country and that what this Government is doing with John Janša and the same responsibility cannot give up the responsibility of all the other empty chairs of the government team that are too silent, too often bow their heads and perhaps even distance themselves, but we are at a point where some distance and looking at matters is not enough. It is necessary to say whether this matter will lead in this direction and that the issue of voters will become the norm of these people or whether the matter will end and surrender to the people and tell them how we will proceed. But the fear they have before losing their chairs is something so low that one can afford and do in the light of the fact that you are also observing what is happening to the country and that, because of one's own interest, I will say sell the country and close down in this event, which is essentially the lowest point that an individual who has decided to be a politician can achieve in his career or in his life.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u104	Thank you very much. There's been a slight change in the order, so he'll get the word Dr. Franz Duck, followed by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm going to try not to be subjectively interpreted as my colleague Perič would say, and I'm going to point out some facts. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is a week behind schedule, but they are a very high-quality number of doses per 100 inhabitants of Slovenia 56.1 of us are only slightly less unfortunate for Bulgaria and Croatia and the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia and Liechtenstein, because it is a little wider coverage of the countries of Poland and I think last week was the same as us. That's another thing. We still do not have 15 months of working with Covid-19 as we should have a regulated issue of issuing quarantine decisions and also adequate compensation when you are quarantined. If you're busy and you're still actually circulating a virus there, it's very problematic. Now let's work together. Any government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, represents the views of the Republic of Slovenia, even in EU matters, even the most prominently President or President of the Government, and when I am in the parliamentary question somehow, because the President of the Government has also fought with half of the EU on many occasions, I have received the following answer, quote: "The government of the RS answers to the RS within the framework of constitutional and commercially designated institutes hereafter. [[…]] These institutions do not require the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to communicate his views on the basis of the conclusions of the working bodies of the National Assembly, if this would mean the remainder of the former assembly system, which is not compatible with the constitutional principle of the division of power and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." Now I'm going to quote something else. Citation: “When the Government applies the positions of the Republic of Slovenia referred to in the preceding paragraph, it shall, by virtue of the negotiation process and in the EU institutions, assess that their entry into force or full application is not feasible or would not be in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia may decide otherwise. It shall immediately inform the National Assembly and the circumstances to justify such conduct.” This is not a quote from the Assembly Rules of Procedure of the old system, this is the second indent of Article 10 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on EU matters, so let us work together on the basis of legislation or whatever. Now, although Ivana Janez Janša spoke for a little less than 40 minutes past what is a constitutional accusation, I must say that I was also radically disappointed there. Why? Covid is good for something. Covid set us up with a blanket that's a little too hollow, I'm afraid. We are all responsible for this in the policy that we create, one 30 years, the other less. We need some new, different, better, economic development model. With all those tables that Mr Janša has shown, he did not show this, one of the key tables that each of us should see in the morning. What's that? That's it. I've got data on the 31st. 3rd this year, table shows payment plan [[?]] the existing debt of the state budget in millions of euros. Mr Janša spoke about how great it was, how well we owed ourselves and wonderfully, but he did not say that 74% of this debt would have to be repaid by 2033. This year's capital is 3 billion 387.2; data from the Ministry of Finance, and in the next decade we will have to return a good 23 billion capital. In short, every year, on average 2.3 billion, add how much we have to “fug” the pension allowance, that the standard is at least the same as and then says Mr. Cernač that we forced the debate in the DZ, on programming European funds. You know, the professor said it was dark. We almost bankrupted at 45% of our debt. When it's small in the bull, it's just his problem, when they're big in trouble, we all have to solve them, or you know, and this story with interest rates and everything, it can turn very quickly. And we all have to be able to think by 2081. That little Jew stole from me, that was mine. At that time, the grandchildren, not only the Janshems and mine, our grandchildren or our grandchildren, but also all others, will have to pay off half a billion. That's the last one on this line. I have no doubt, but I really wish him health, I am not offended that Mr Janša will still be president of the SDS in 2040, because your internal challenge is a problem, not to misinterpret me, but will then have to return 3 billion capitals. Are we talking about this? Of course not. Are we talking about how we're going to produce something? Even the Chamber of Commerce says, let's just extend the measures. I don't know if we're gonna be working in Slovenia anymore, just living in a poof or something? In this way, as I have said many times before, the best quarter will first escape us into another and a different thinking environment, and then someone else for it. You know, we have one first year when we can take some time off if we don't get a good deal of debt to the new PKPs in 2033. Are we talking about this? No, we're probably going to talk about what we're going to talk about by the end of the term, but I don't know, about such and other wars. Finally, a little subjective interpretation. You know, someone's been at war with himself since that pear in the Depala village, when a mini coup failed, and after 27 years, it would have been the end of this war to stop being a citizen and become just a personal war of a gentleman. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word is given by Iva Dimic and will be discussed by Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's instrument, which, of course, has been used by the opposition, the instrument of constitutional accusation speaks of the fact that you actually did not have sufficient reasons to file this institution with a constitutional charge. Let me just say that point 5 of the motion for an indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court, which constitutes an unconstitutional prohibition of a referendum and a violation of the Constitutional Court's decisions, is irrelevant. This is your fifth point, which you mentioned and is irrelevant. Why? Since the Constitutional Court had already made a decision one day before, it is said, on 1 April this year, by lodging, of course, before you submitted the opposition motion for an indictment by the President of the Government and the Constitutional Court published a decision stating that the National Assembly had legitimately excluded the legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026 and therefore this law is not inconsistent with Article 90 of the Constitution. You wrote that down, but you knew because you filed a constitutional indictment on April 2nd. However, this was decided on April 1st and you pushed it into the text, it is said that you do not really have enough arguments for writing one of these constitutional charges and that of course I will say things you falsify, abuse, misquote and, of course, you are mainly not telling the truth because this fifth point of your proposal is not true because the Constitutional Court has already decided one day before your introduction. And you keep saying the same thing. And today I'm listening to what we need to show you to hear from the opposition. What? The truth, not lies and deception. And I believe it hurts you to predict very strongly that the European Commission for Slovenia in 2021 forecasted a largely medium economic growth of 4.9 GDP, and in 2022 the real forecast next year is 5.1% of GDP, and it follows that Slovenia is entering the first quarter of the most successful Member States of the European Union. Of course it hurts, it hurts you, instead of everyone being proud together that we were able to win in some way and that the unemployment rate of 4.8% was in March among the lowest in the European Union, where the average was 7.3 percentage points. Do you know what that means? That Slovenia made the right decisions at the beginning of the epidemic, that we were right to stand up, despite the evidence that we had adopted the CAP. Indeed, the Government has helped to preserve 300,000 potentially lost jobs by means of measures, and this is the result that the European Commission has attributed to us. Look, talk about how you deal with the media or whatever. Look, Mrs Angela sent me to say this, and I will say, in fear of respecting the RTV subscription, she wrote down why, I quote, why, ask them why their RTV never shows what's going on under Mr. Wrotec's leadership, everything is going on in Slovenia. When we watched Bratuškova in power, as well as Leben, as well as Cerar, they had to watch RTV take pictures of them on construction sites every day. And she wonders why the Gardener, who actually works, doesn't talk much on TV. Because it hurts if it's working, and that's probably why it hurts. And once again, when you come with the truth, then we can talk together, and the lie we know is a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u108	Thank you very much. He will discuss Bojan Podkoršek, and after him he will get the word Soniboj Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u109	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, especially all those who accompany us, who are accompanying today's meeting. Slovenia, of course, found itself in one in the beginning of 2020 last year, if not in my opinion the most difficult period of its independence in 30 years of history. I must admit that I will not deal with the previous composition of the Government and with the President of the Government, but I must be grateful to the previous President of the Government that, of course, he saw, at the beginning of this most difficult period, as President of the Government. Now, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, I must admit that I have been accompanying today's meeting with something in the Chamber, something in the Chamber also in my office. Of course, after a good three years we met well, but I am sure that in your life, when you were not in politics, you were doing a lot of positive things at different times. Of course, the fact is that when we are dealing with this constitutional accusation by the President of the Government today, of course, this also applies to the whole Government, that we must all acknowledge together that the previous President, but I do not offend anyone in my life, was not an adult function that he had received three years ago. So much in this difficult situation, full under the feet of the opposition, I must admit when I live in a village, something happens in the village no matter how the neighbours understand each other, they help each other in the most difficult situation. It is also in the congregation, it is also in companies, in short, in all spheres of the country, when an environment arrives, in this case even a country, of course, people come together and help themselves to get out of the most difficult situation, of course. Of course, no one wants this in the village or in any congregation, either in the company or in the country, but it is a fact. But what I am listening to, sometimes from afar, and I wonder what some are leading to go to the streets, that the politicians elected to this National Assembly are calling, the street is calling people, they want the government to fall down, they want some minister to step down, in short, the question of what is the goal is often asked. Is the goal good for the country or is it something else? And, of course, my firm belief is that it is not a country, but that it is a state-owned enterprise, a large state-owned enterprise in which some of the pipelines are still in the past, some of which are still being driven away by tax money. Colleagues and colleagues, today when you read to this Government, President of the Government in this difficult situation, let me remind you that in ten years, 400 million people have played a very bad role for the hospitals in ten years for the media, but in this difficult situation in the Republic of Slovenia, once again, the country has played a very bad role in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, and the country has given more than a billion. In short, 600 million more than the hospitals where people died. We gave homes for the elderly in the ten years when the left governments were 25 million euros and for non-governmental organisations in Metelkova 45 million. In short, today we condemn the President of the Government, this Government, and we want him to fall as soon as possible during this difficult period. I think that this, colleagues and colleagues, is rude and, as a member of this Assembly, I am already firmly rejecting this in my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Sonibo the Prince has the word, and he will be followed by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u111	Thank you, Chairman. Nice to meet you, fellows. I must say that I have even thought about whether to debate or not, because when we talk about one of the sharpest forms of accusation in this temple of democracy, this is a constitutional accusation against the President of the Government that we are talking in fact with an empty chair, I do not know how much this makes sense. Of course, the President of the Government found half an hour to show us some sweetness and the essence of his message was that we don't even know what we have in this country, how good a government we have, how good a government president we have, and not least how good it is for citizens and citizens in this last year since this government outfit is in power. I think that after his introduction when he showed us the booklet, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because of course he also informed us that he was one of those teams that prepared this constitution. But who are we to make it clear to him that he's violating this constitution? I think we'll be able to take a half hour off the opposition and apologize to him for having dared to ask him and warn him because he knows what's in this constitution. One set of data that holds, does not hold, half hold, distort the truth, was displayed today in this half hour. Mainly, the inhabitants and residents of this country could see that we are doing really well. Even if we were overrun by savings, the Germans were an example to us at any time, as I remember, and we overcame them. I believe that some have substantially increased their savings this year, and this is a set around the ruling coalition with millions of businesses being investigated by law enforcement agencies. [[…]] Intransparency, clienteleism, setting your people up for all functions, more important functions in this country. I believe that they have recovered quite strongly in this year's ruling of this coalition. Debt — what you do, don't run, I just wrote it down — don't start demagogies. Debt is not a problem. If I recall correctly, we left about 250-quarters of a billion euros in this state budget a year ago. Today we have a billion-dollar debt. We're up from 65 percent of bdp today to 80, and we're way over. We're bragging that credits are going to be nice, 60-year repayments, but I don't know what. [[…]] Great, our grandkids, not our grandkids, our great-grandkids will pay them back. Of course, when there's no such coalition, not the President of the government anymore. Now, or are we in the final stage - I ask, colleagues and colleagues, are we really doing so well? From the fact that, I don't know, it's because of a successful resolution policy, as the government coalition claims with the epidemic. We're about to have our anniversary on Monday, which was flown by planes when we won. Great. Then about 3,000 500 people died, or more than 4,000, because we locked them in the homes of the elderly because we didn't exclude them because we knew that the infrastructure was obsolete because we didn't do anything during the summer. We approached the neighbours of Croats to save their tourism, opened the door wide and, of course, the second wave on the second wave completely unprepared. [[…]] Successful government leadership, great, good. I will not be today because I think that those who question where the Constitution has been breached, I, in the constitutional charge, if you have read it, have these articles also, the areas where this constitution has been violated in our opinion. So I don't want to lose words about it. Perhaps he would answer a sentence or two in this debate. No more than the President of the Government, because this served only because I also observed the right side of this House. This debate essentially served to charge batteries to various colleagues of Pojbič and his Members for a while, because they believe themselves. But look at the fraction, we have such an ungrateful people that, as I said before, we don't even know what we have and we don't appreciate it. 70 percent of the population does not support this government. Then we can have this population. [[Incomprehensible]] There's something wrong with that because we're doing so well. I don't know. We're all in a fight. We haven't opened up these topics either between ourselves, between culturers, NGOs, the media, the U.S.A. The opening presentation was very cold when I listened to my colleague Hrovat, Horvata. Christian Democrats are in the title. He was bragging about what they did for family policy. You are not ashamed when you will all suffer hundreds of families of journalists in the coming days and endanger their social security. It's not Christian. I am not a faithful man, but I try to live in harmony with Christian teachings, and I raised children like this even though no one went to church. But what you're doing is far from that. Mainly considering that I've been spending some time, I'm going to end up with a colleague. [[…]] Maybe just a sentence or two around this predecessor of mine wondering why people go out on the street, what drives them, what their goal is. I don't know, because they're doing so well. I'm not in favor of solving politics with protests. I don't participate in these protests either. My job as an elected policy is to try to regulate matters within the system in this national assembly. And because I firmly believe that this government, which claims to be doing good, is doing damage, it is causing divisions between people, that in one year it has managed to fight three quarters of Slovenia, that the police minister is fighting with the police, that the cultural minister is fighting with the cultured people, it could also be listed. Therefore, I think it would be time to go, at least in my opinion, as I have already mentioned, unfortunately it will not be so, given the reality that, in addition to the referendum we will have at the beginning of July, it would be best for this country to have an early election at the same time. Of course I'll support the constitutional charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word is given to Boštjan Koražija, behind him mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u113	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Today was a very, I will say, one big surprise when Mr President of the Prime Minister, accompanied only arrived for the half-hours in this national assembly, where he should be in more and more times or at least in my opinion. He, as far as I can recall, has also been one of those who has consistently demanded that the Prime Minister be present in the National Assembly, that there be ministers present, state secretaries. And here I must admit I support him in this aspect of what is then an explanation. But we also now expect the same from him, from Mr Janš as Prime Minister and from all ministers, that they are here when they must be. It is also understandable, I admit, from this point of view, when he says that he has certain obligations that were necessary, however, but since then he can find the right time to answer him or to answer to this national assembly here, so that he can be normally debated or actually discussed with him, because what I constantly miss about him is that he is not a man of dialogue, but he is a monologue man. And that is what we have had a very concrete opportunity to see and experience today. Really, he came up with a power point slide, but that was it. We also wanted to ask him certain questions, including asking him the answers he actually owes us, to give them, or to prepare them, if not now. And what did we get? And the power point slides, and flees from the Members and Members immediately back from the Hall. And when a person flees from us, they say before Members and Members, in fact he also flees from his citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are their representatives here. I do not want such a Prime Minister, not only do I not want him, but in fact citizens do not deserve such a Prime Minister. We would deserve a man who would be willing not only to talk to them but also to face them. For we are also all obliged as Members here in the national assembly or even in the field, we are obliged to listen and also to face the problems of our citizens and citizens, as well as to face the fact that we are wrong all the time and must be taught by others, or that others are right to teach us the essence of what is true and what is not true or what is not the case. I will personally support this constitutional charge. But it is also such that when I do, I will try to get a little attached to the constitutional charge itself. Good, because you've all mentioned the STA or this war, the constant war with the media. And I'm going to go on exactly the human factor that I miss about him. We all know very good political tactics, political strategies, although I must know today that he has disappointed me with this strategy that he came to the National Assembly today because he has exactly three times changed, and when he went to third he has completely calculated, which I have never seen or experienced before. I expect from him this human factor, which citizens also require of him or also expect, or anyone who is a representative of the government or who leads the government, I think it is normal to expect empathy or that a person is willing to face self-reflexion or even problems that we will say presented or given. Really honestly looking at what has happened in this last year this could have been from A to Z, but look at any normal service I would think that a person was very fast on the road if he worked in jobs like Mr President of the Government allowed himself in this last year. That's what we have to admit. Let us put ourselves in the role of a small man, or one common worker, of what would happen if we went through the law, through some ethical standards of society, or also rules and regulations that are bound to be applied in the workplace. I don't think I'd be too busy. I will also refer to Mr Ferjan if it can be said very well before I must admit it was very nice what he said earlier, when he said that there was also an allegory with directors or with someone who runs the company here and I would ask myself if a director would be running the company or in this case the President of the Government, as led by Mr Janša or the President of the Government, would be interested in how much longer I would still be employed as Director of this company or as President of this Government. I think that we would all agree that we should not be for long or that we should not be for long, because if we are setting ethical standards or this human factor, which is very important and what we require of others, we must be willing to do and know how to do, not just face others with what they should do themselves, but then we do not consider it or even stick to it. Quite frankly, if everyone were to act like this and say here about taking over the mail, I think that anyone who would not be able to take over the post would have declared him incapable of doing so in terms of a working relationship. If he asks his citizens and citizens to do what I also expect him to do, then he is able to do it, or even to do it, and not just to put himself in the role of the victim. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman, and she's going to be discussed by Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Article 99 of our Constitution: «The Council of State shall decide if the majority of the members are present. The Council of State shall act by a majority of the votes of the members present.” You respected opposition in the motion for an indictment to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to find that Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, violated Article 99 of the Constitution in the exercise of his office. So in your constitutional charge today, you now report to the President of the Government that he has violated a Article of the Constitution which speaks of the fact that the National Assembly is not concluded unless a majority decides. Note that today, as a proposaler, this thesis has given us a medical technique, I still understand that, under this blemish, there are also Members who are so eager to sell their legal knowledge here, unfortunately not anymore. By the way, also in point 5 of your proposal, the Constitutional Court has already ruled and has declared the law constitutional and I will conclude here at this point, because I must say, as a lawyer alone, that there is no point in losing words about your content, because you are, only, what you have done, that this institution has been abused and abused for your political purposes, political goals and appetites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Rudi Bear has the word, and he will be discussed by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Vice President. You know, it's corny, it's so corny, it's almost unimaginable. I mean, you make a comparison between the length of the interview and the conscience, two completely different journalistic types, and you come to a conclusion. I quote, “The Slovenian Press Agency is a national disgrace, an eclectic abuse of the name it bears.” The end of the quote was written by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And so he pressed the trigger and put all his supporters to the conviction of the malicious nature of the Slovenian press agency. But, of course, it was an interview with the singer Zlatko, who isn't in that power by the year. On the other hand, the awareness of Janša’s meeting — Orban — and amazingly and unheard of, the interview was longer than a conscience. And we all know it's not a problem in length. There shouldn't be an interview with a singer at all. Apparently, the Slovenian press agency should not publish it at all. It's so banal that you almost don't believe it's happening, but that's how Janez Janša turned on the green light. On the one hand, for SDS supporters, they immediately and without delay began to swoop into the Slovenian Press Agency and, on the other, tended to UKOM to start filling the STA with requirements for a wide variety of documentation, not just business. For example, Ukom demanded data on the number of interviews with singers, such as Zlatan Čordić, and interviews with singers who released the new CD compared the length of the interview and who knows what else. However, this was sufficient to make the red light available to the public to finance the state press agency or, in other words, to decommission the Slovenian Press Agency. Today we have an opportunity, all together, to consider whether this policy is Janez Janša's policy, which is why the voters elected you to this National Assembly. Is it really enough for you to look at Janez Janša every time you excel, if that's not my problem? Of course it is. That's the problem with all of you. The problem is that after 30 years of independence we will lose our Slovenian press agency. And the harsh condemnation of the STOP financing, Members of Parliament, colleagues from Desus, is not enough. Concern about the complications with the funding you express or express, now not even more, colleagues from the SMC. It's not enough. The requests for some additional clarifications made by colleagues from NSI before time, of course, are no longer required, and this is not enough. It is easier to believe that it is all about those few files, documentation, colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, and it is only an external expression of the broader process, a broader process that runs before all of us – first decommissioning and then the construction of a media space under the supervision of the SDS. And secretly blushing because the European Commission is concerned about press pressures in Slovenia, that is not enough if anyone wants to defend media freedom. The model of this calculation with the Slovenian Press Agency is very transparent. So clear, it's impossible to overlook the true purpose. However, it goes so far as to require documentation from the Government for communication, the STA does not deliver it, i.e. it violates contractual obligations and is expected to receive sanctions for this alleged insubordination. It is very simple and the government will indeed stop funding the public service on 30 November last year. And I don't know how you can ask yourself about evidence of a violation of the law. The President of the Government as responsible for the work of the Government in this case absolutely violates Articles 3 and 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. Pika. There's no debate and no apology, and there's something else. It's a very simple thing here. This is a violation of the Slovenian Press Agency Act because it is the responsibility of the Government to provide adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service under this Act. And what is actually grotesquely funny about this is that the Government of Janez Janša or Janez Janša is also in violation of article 66 PKP-7 which, of course, would not be necessary by nature if the Government or the President of the Government had respected the basic law on the Slovenian Press Agency. But it was necessary for another super-member to be accepted in order to keep people in the government and in Ukom, but because you accepted this from your colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, you accepted it. This, this article you have adopted, you have pressed for acceptance of this – I tell him a supermember who is supposed to wipe out people in the executive branch of power by his own words. And you don't think it's broken here either. If there's no funding, then it's not broken for you. Of course, the matter is quite clear. It says that it is necessary – the law states that the Slovenian Press Agency should be financed and the state, the government is not financed and what is unclear here. I am interested in what is a vague, more obvious, eclectic violation of legislation is actually very difficult to find. And this is the rule of law, as one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. That's the rule of law. Of course, the Director of the Agency and the members of the Supervisory Board have been contacted. The president of the government and Janez Janša freely accused the director of the STA of cooperating in the murder of a journalist. And that required documentation, those files are now in the air somewhere between the State and the Government, because, of course, the government was not allowed to take over again at the request of the Prime Minister. This is the story, which, of course, causes the Slovenian Press Agency to suffer to the point that it may not even wait for the 30th birthday, although it regularly performs all its tasks and informs the Slovenian public correctly. What documentation does UKOM even have the right to request? It's also a little bit of a straight line, but, you know, the answer is very, very simple. None. None of UKOM has the right to request. Since, in accordance with Article 3 of the Act on STA, the only member of the Republic of Slovenia and on its behalf the rights of the partner are exercised by the Government – not UKOM, the Government. And the government should then empower UKOM with a specific act and not do so. So UKOM is demanding, and it has no right, and the government has the right, and it doesn't want to exercise it. It's so simple. Well, in any other case, it is so simple when it comes to violating the law and the Constitution of this government. The irrefutable fact remains, however, that public service funding is the Government's legal duty, the halting of funding is illegal, is the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government. You say the government or that politics has every right to criticize the media a little bit. That's the criticism. And that's how a little coverage of the media is done? Yeah, the way you just delete it, to destroy it. The country established this Slovenian Press Agency 30 years ago. The current Prime Minister, Janez Janša, was also part of this power. After 30 years of being tired of the Slovenian press agencies, I mean, some state institution doesn't just throw up like a toy that's tired. And, when we say so, you can't just look away at the brutal remodeling of the media landscape, the MPs and the MPs. Nor is it because all of this cannot obscure the fact that Slovenia is becoming a problem country in the eyes of Europe because of the brutal submission of all social systems to the ruling SDS. It is becoming a problematic country and such an assessment is most eloquently illustrated by the finding of Vice-President Vera Jourov, who says, “The Prime Minister of Janša of the international reputation of Slovenia does not take Slovenia seriously enough.” Yes, it is, and you say it, isn't it, finally, Slovenia is on a European map, on a world map, it's about Slovenia. Yeah, it's a rumor. I'll give you an example from today's press conference of Prime Minister Janez Janša, also for foreign journalists. I don't know if you had the chance to catch this press conference, but I just happened to listen to it, at least in one piece. What they are, but now, what foreign journalists are about, you will say, of course, that they are the left-wings themselves, what they asked the Prime Minister about. I'll just count it in a few points. On the issue of the rule of law in Slovenia, on the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency, on the problem of delegated European prosecutors. Well, one of the reporters asked him where he got his obsession with the white panther, and one of the reporters asked him, I think it was from the Financial Times, or he thinks Trump won the United States. These were questions to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by European media journalists. Now, I'm sorry, I've been a long-standing journalist, but I can't tell you what was answered, because the answer was practically nothing, except that it was not a white panther, but a black panther, and of course, as far as the European Delegated Prosecutor is concerned, that we have a problem with the procedure that we have in Slovenia with the procedure. Who has a problem with the procedure in Slovenia on this issue? Yeah, no one. The procedure is practically completed and is at the door of the government. But he didn't say, of course, where the problem is. He did not say that he was the prosecutor who was supposed to occupy this function, that this prosecutor dropped the complaint against POP TV and therefore very much resented the SDS and that this proposed prosecutor was involved in the prosecution of Janez Janša under the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Here is a problem with a procedure that will be obvious and they know that even the European public already knows, it has led to the abolition of everything, of course, against the law again, and that, of course, even Minister Kozlovich is looking forward to the end of the ministry, which, of course, would not be a big deal in this case. Your Honor! So today we are not just deciding whether John Janša will be accused before the Constitutional Court, nor will we. Today we will show citizens whether the majority of the National Assembly agrees with this autocratic leadership of the country because it is a democracy. And if I conclude, look, I'm sorry that the President of the Republic was not invited to come to the National Assembly and make his statement on the points of this constitutional accusation. It is true, however, that in at least one part, the President of the Republic will be able to relatively soon define himself, because, of course, it will be before the challenge or for the Slovenian Press Agency to award a high state distinction at the 30th anniversary of its existence. Whether he will take the side of the Prime Minister, for whom the Slovenian Press Agency is a disgrace to Slovenia or will recognise a credible media in the Slovenian Press Agency, which has been monitoring us since independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word to prepare himself for Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Respectable all present, colleagues and colleagues! On the table is a motion for an indictment by the Prime Minister before the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitution and laws. The Institute of Constitutional Prosecution against the President of the Republic is provided in Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This same article can in fact be used in a meaningful manner for a constitutional charge against the Prime Minister. And, of course, we must also be aware that in this booklet, which I am raining in hand, there is also a basis for accusing Members. What it means is that, of course, the constitutional charge must always be justified, it must be fair, there must be a proven violation of the laws and it must also be proved to this person that he was working against the constitution in his work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe we've all read this booklet, blue, in most cases. But I don't know if everyone understood it. And, of course, I also know that Prime Minister Janez Janša respects this booklet and respects this Slovenian flag as well as it itself, because he fought for this country, which these two things represent. And, of course, in the proposal for a constitutional indictment, there are thus indications of the threat to the functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency and then the attack on the media, the threat to public services, the abandonment or rejection of the purchase of vaccines for Covid-19-vaccinated diseases, the assault of the judiciary, the hate speech. Above all, the so-called general opinion of the left opposition is expressed that this Prime Minister and this government, by pronouncing not an epidemic and under the cover of the pandemic, is decomposing the democratic social institutions and restricting human rights, freedoms and, of course, exercising autocratic power, which are unfortunately ladies and ladies of fat lies. The proposal for a constitutional indictment lists as many as 15 articles which are to be violated by the President of the Government in his work in his office or are to be violated by those articles. However, there is not a single concrete case in which the President of the Government, in the exercise of this function, would commit an unlawful act, acting in concrete terms against the constitutional and anti-democratic elements. However, there are, of course, guesses and hints that I cannot say that you have no right to a colleague, but if there is no specific case of endangering the STA, jeopardising public health or enforcing prohibited and legally sanctioned hate speech, then this 63rd article, which speaks of the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance and the prohibition of promoting violence, is unwarranted and unwarranted. Thus, of course, this particular case is not mentioned in the present case. Then, in view of the violation of the STA Law, it was somehow said that it made it impossible, of course, to stop the STA, to act normally on its own terms, but it was forgotten to say that, among other things, the STA’s obligation to report to its founder, and of course this has not been properly done so far, and therefore there has been a breach of the performance of the contractual obligations towards the founder. Then we move on to the detection of rejection of non-acquisition of vaccines for vaccination against COVID. So no one consciously refused anything. Even this President is responsible for all his subordinates' orders to get everything that can be obtained in the first half and by the first half of 2021, is said as soon as possible. And those vaccines somehow then also fell out of the game, which were actually, when the delivery hands were too long, would have gotten some things at the very end of the year, and thus, of course, the grafting could not have increased. So that now somehow I don't go into my head, that those who haven't actually followed the rules and these measures, of course, will get to the end of this epidemic and then somehow here today have filed a constitutional indictment against the one who tried to introduce these measures, so believe me, I can't help you with your evil intentions. I reject the suggestion that the President of this Government is guilty of these accusations, of course, which is why this constitutional charge on my part cannot be supported. But believe me, I believe that boomerang can come back quickly and that either one of you can ever be convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u120	Thank you very much. He has the word Robert Polnar, to prepare himself for the Mag. Helena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u121	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will begin by saying that democracy, autonomy, freedom, equality and justice are all interpretation concepts. There are many disagreements about their meanings. In democratic countries, these disagreements are significantly reduced because they are all of the above concepts of the constitutional category. The question of the existence of the Constitution is not an interpretation, but this is simply an actual question. It can be answered by identifying a document bearing that name. Of course, it can always be found that the laws and other rules adopted in the majority decision procedure apply to all those in a situation defined by a certain standard. However, the logic of constitutional validity is different from that of other binding standards. It is not only that the Constitution is the highest legal act, but that the Constitution is a fundamental and justifiable act. The Constitution defines the community and the position of the individual in it in this regard, and it brings to the positive law the abstract moral requirements that citizens can legitimately expose to each other, we are talking about fundamental rights. It conveys the abstract moral requirements that citizens must legitimately expose to the State, the protection of fundamental rights, legal security, social justice, respect for the principle of neutrality in the functioning of national authorities, the right of citizens to demand from the State the justification of each of its acts. Third. The price that citizens have to pay to meet previous requirements is said to the extent that the authority meets the criteria of legitimacy. This price, which exists only in terms of conditionality, will be referred to as a political bond or a commitment to the loyalty of the political authorities. Those among us who take the Constitution seriously and those who take a serious motion before the Constitutional Court can find that we live caught in a fiction best illustrated by the ominous interpretation of oxymoron when we look at Slovenian recent history. Slovenians do not even have minimal experience of living in a decent society. We've tried everything. The two monarchies first the emperor, then the king in the end with a markedly fascist rejection. We have tried communism today retro building with parliamentary democracy. We have tried everything but a government based on the primacy of rational civil logic. We do not know what it is like to live in a society where the ultimate value of the freedom of equal people is, but rather to be obsessed with a specific policy, irrespective of the fact that this policy is exposed to periodic elections, a mandate and a time-limited exercise of power, so the question that is theoretically and practically politically important is: On what do we today and now justify our possible criticism and possible defence of parliamentary constitutional democracy? If we are to defend constitutional democracy as a good regime, we must first ask ourselves what we are talking about, and what do we really want? The same is true of criticism that this will not be confused are methodological issues that are forerunners of thinking and action as their possible condition. Those who do not ask these questions fall into the mistake that Karel Marx has most nicely taken with the famous slogan: “They do not know what they are doing.” Applicants point out the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the ban on the referendum on the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian Army is a national armed force trained and equipped to carry out an armed struggle and is the most important component of the national security system. Its size and composition depend on state policy and military doctrine. The Constitutional Court declared, by decision of the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army, that they were compatible with the Constitution. Is that going to change anything? Nothing. However, the relationship to state defence vitals will remain a matter of dilettarian political outbursts, amateurism and shameless demagogism. In the part of the proposal, which discusses the promotion of violence against women, the proponents cite examples of three women. These cases refer to the entire female population. Is something that is conditionally said for a part also valid for the whole? Too obvious is the deception of generalisation, according to which part is applicable, also applies to the whole, although that is not at all true. And with such blandness, they intend to seriously harass the judges and judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is an institution that appears to fit very poorly into the democratic framework. At the same time, it seems to be an institution that is inevitably needed by democracy. The Constitutional Court is, as it is commonly called, the guardian of the Constitution. Constitutional reading of the Constitution and its interpretation bind all citizens and state bodies. The Constitutional Court is the institution that has the authority to carry out this work. The power of the Constitutional Court is therefore very great. Many call it the fourth branch of power, some calling it a covert founder. What I'm saying right now, I'm just mentioning and leaving it in question. The position of the Constitutional Court leads to serious contradictions, both in the view of democracy and in the view of the rule of law. From the point of view of democracy, it is a paradox that the Constitutional Court may annul any decision or act of democratically elected authorities. How can it be justified that a group of people, in our case nine who do not have democratic legitimacy, may undermine the decisions and acts of elected representatives of the people. Secondly, if the Constitutional Court interprets the Constitution and controls everything and everyone, from the ordinary citizen to the President of the Government or the President of the State, who is the one who oversees the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court is the guardian of the Constitution, who is the one who controls the guardian. The answer is in the palm of your hand — no one. Ladies and gentlemen, a very solid dose of mental pathology is needed for a low and completely honest comparison of Slovenia in the 20th century with the Weimar Republic in the 1930s. Consternation and amazement at such political aggression and such a drastic demonstration of primitiveism are understandable. The civilisationist to extremes denies that members of the German National Socialist Workers' Party have invented the concept of a constitutional referendum. Only to be able to cancel the Weimar Constitution and combine the functions of the President of the State and the President of the Government. They appointed their leader as a constitutionally motivated leader. The referendum they organized received 88.18 percent support. Later, the elections were not conducted at all, but the national Socialist Workers' Party, through referendums, won all seats in Parliament. The propagandists of humility and political atavim have, as we see, taken advantage of the possibility of re-affirming their delusions and decided to use it in an unworthy manner. This is not just a manifestation of bad taste, but an indicator of the absence of fundamental political information in its authors. It is universally clear that modern Slovenia is not completely any symbol, an extensioner or promoter of totalitarian inclinations, but is a parliamentary democracy with all good and bad things. Slovenia can see itself as a national socialist relic only in the heads of Slovenian constitutionally accused vicmahers. Their comparative imaginations would be engrossed in their mother’s engrossment. The sharp criticisms and outbreaks of hatred not only stem from conflicting ideological and political views, but also from the general human tendency to conceal some unpleasant and sad truths about Slovenian reality. The beauty of democracy in Slovenian is an insurmountable source of inspiration for distortions of all kinds, which creates an overpowered aesthetic experience in the audience. In fact, it is an anti-civilisation mockery, which is a fundamental breach of the Slovenian political system, as well as of the Slovenian society as a whole. Those who want to understand this will understand, and those who do not have help, with no arguments you cannot convince them, all attempts are completely hopeless. Nothing can overcome their belief that the world is an hated place and that everyone just wants to hurt them. They will be tirelessly barking up moldy phrases about the corruption of power, the attempts to establish a single-person dictatorship and its most natural dessert, authoritarian police auction. The worst thing in the modern Slovenian world is that it is never possible to determine when people are working for democracy who are ontologically involved and when uncontrolled ambitions of an individualist type. The social definition today does not require any other moral and ideological discipline other than activity. Activities that show themselves through aggressiveness and destructiveness, which turn the responsible function of professional policy many times into irresponsible and uninteresting custodians of their own poor soul. We are living in an emergency situation, and this cannot be avoided, but it is important that we seek modalities around the nature of the problem, especially how we will integrate our universal, moral and political preferences with a reflection on the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, you never know what will happen if things change. Or what happens if things don't change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nicely greeted fellows and fellows! Yes, today I expected to receive some specific accusations, what you're reading to Prime Minister Janez Janša, but I've been through the debate all along, listening to and following this hostile speech you're reading to him. You yourself have done through the debate what you have actually shown to a person, and I am particularly surprised when colleague Luka Mesec publicly addressed the SMC in front of all of us and accused us of being guilty of supporting the government and the functioning of Prime Minister Janez Janša. Therefore, to me today's indictment, the constitutional charge is a pointless accusation, for it has no proper basis or content. In the case of the identification of subjective liability, those who manifest illegal conduct, which you do not see in here, but still state some flat-rate claims and suspicions of violations that are not actually there again. Repeat one and the same since this government took office because you want to tarnish the work of this government and the work of Prime Minister Janez Janša. You're obsessed with the President of the Government, you always call him a dictator, but I think you're all alone in this role because you want to convince everyone who, contrary to you, is actually thinking about convincing them that the Government is not doing well. Since I don't have time, I'm just going to focus on certain charges, especially the STA, which is what you haven't said and you've been deceiving all along. I will tell you, Article 6 of the STA Act states the principle of financial transparency, which, in the first paragraph, is misleading, the STA ensures a clear, transparent and appropriate separation of public service activities and activities that do not belong to the public service. This is a market activity. Including clear separation of financial statements. Furthermore, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the same Article state that funds from the State budget and other public funds may be used only for the purpose of performing a public service, the STA shall be obliged to pay a surplus of expenditure on all activities, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, for the purpose of carrying out a public service. The STA may not finance market activities from the funds obtained for the public service. And since UKOM, as custodian of the contract on behalf of the Government and as a responsible representative of the founder, in reviewing the implementation of the contractual obligations under the Slovenian Press Agency Act, discovered a number of infringements, he actually demanded what he had been demanding all along, namely, what he had found? It concluded that it can be concluded from the publicly available annual reports of the STA that the whole 10-year period of operation is systematically incorrect to demonstrate the financial performance of the public service and market activities. It is irregular, it divides the public service as the main activity and market activity as its side activity. The business outcome of the public service shows an important low and business outcome of a market activity, which is significantly too high. The significant understatement of the public service business outcome in the STA business plan is thus the wrong basis for calculating the necessary amount of State aid in the form of public service compensation. If the business outcome of the public service is shown to be too low, i.e. with a loss, there is a need for compensation from the state budget, as we have seen that this has actually happened in this case. That's not all. There has also been an annex to the already signed contracts for additional funds, which means that the state budget has been drawn up again and we can understand that, in fact, there have been major violations and that a stop has to be made, an end has to be made. Secondly, I would like only briefly to refer to the supply of vaccines, and you yourself have followed the story of how AstraZenece delivered the vaccine and, as soon as the Prime Minister, Janez Janša, took up the mandate, including in the role of the Minister of Health and found that there would be a shortage of vaccines, another vaccine was ordered by the producer BioNTech Pfizer, as well as Moderne, but had not been ordered prior to this because no scientific clinical data had been established and no confirmation by the EME. Therefore, these vaccines have not been ordered prematurely. And to conclude, that's all I'd like to say is that today you're accusing the Prime Minister of the government because the government and the president of the government are doing well. You are disturbed by the results of the government and this is the actual result of today's constitutional indictment. The very results of the government are completely, entirely, to the inhabitants, to all citizens and citizens of this country, beautiful Slovenia, well known to all, and what you are saying is that 70% of citizens, a citizen against this government, are deceived by these allegations. Bring the evidence and then maybe someone will believe you, but unfortunately not without proof. Which is why I certainly can't and can't follow what you wrote down on the charge and not even support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u124	Thank you very much. He's got the word Gregor Perič, get Boris Doblekar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I think that Slovenia always has some two options, governments have the status quo and has governments that are also changing things. Now, you change more things, you get more opponents, so we also had governments, when they were very much for the status quo, and it was extremely peaceful, and as soon as you start rubbing things in, things start happening, in here, in front of the National Assembly, in the streets and elsewhere. But that makes sense. I would like Slovenia, which in many ways would be much more plural than [[sign for the end of the debate]] You dare to be, in many ways, in the media, in political, in some other area, but that's the way it is. I think that these debates, which, including today's, are useful, are good to face the arguments that we face in some plural sense, but I feel in particular one strong uncertainty here, especially because everyone is looking at who's going to be a new face again, [[sign for the end of the debate]] which will once again change this political space, which will confuse the cards again. I think that a lot of people are afraid of this, there are some who want it, but above all we are here, who have to make sure that Slovenia succeeds. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u126	Sorry, we're out of time. The word is Boris Doblekar, prepare Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Respectable, respected, respected citizens, citizens! And we're back in front of a farce in front of a circus run by the KUL opposition because we don't have anything else to do. I'll try to get it all together quickly, I don't have a lot of time, so it has to be said that all the eyewitnesses are completely groundless, and they don't even hold. They are bloated, but they are a political struggle and, of course, they must be cut with all cannons. It's just about power and it's about the epidemic. We can't forget that. In the epidemic, we're going to fight for the cloud. Now, given that you've misruled when you've been for years, decades, you've invested in everything, just in development, and people don't, and that hurts you. That's what you're throwing to the Prime Minister here, if you are, why you're investing so much money in people. Of course, where you're going to invest, banks, NGOs, what you've been doing. That's why we have health care where we have it, so we have infrastructure the way we have it and so on. The formerly, the motioner said that we were caught, or that some of the parties were trapped in client bonds, that we needed to unload and so on. I think it's the proponent who's most trapped in these client bonds, but these clamps break and every now and then jump into another. We are serious parliamentary political parties, we stick together, we work for the good of people, and we will do so in the future. We heard pure drinking water – again, of course, populism, that we have pure drinking water, but Slovenian oil. Yes, we have Slovenian oil, such drinking water is when you mastered it. That's why it's like this, so we could also get a new water law, so that the tycoons could stop building on lakes and seas, what you're supporting. Now, as far as vaccines are concerned, of course you promoted non-vaccination and threw masks down, both in the SD party, even President Tanja Fajon. The media promotes “influencers”, they are full of them and so on. In short, I'm not serious completely. Slovenia, indicators, health, economy – if you look a little bit – you could have heard the Prime Minister in the answers to where Slovenia is at the moment, where it is located, what are the indicators. We are at the very top of Europe after overcoming the epidemic. The indicators of economic, economic growth continue to show us far the best, and that, of course, hurts and disturbs you and that is why you invest such nonsense. YOU WANTED THE GOVERNMENT TO WORK UNDER THE LAW AND STA'S TRAINING MONEY AWAY, ALTHOUGH HE DIDN'T SHOW THE DOCUMENTS AND HE WAS EXPENSING MONEY FOR GOD KNOWS WHAT. Freedom of the media, the Sharcha government. Charec was the only one who has so far openly attacked, I would say media freedom, which media can invest the economy, where it can advertise, where it can't be. That's what you've been doing, and now you're reading quite a bit of nebulosis to the Prime Minister. RTV Slovenia, the “national” sums up according to the Uncensored, who revives when Janša rules. Catastrophe, it's a living shame that RTV is doing this. Water, I've already said the Water Act. A political party, a political party For a healthy society, the move takes advantage of a healthy society and makes an advertisement, and you help it. A living disaster, completely against all normal procedures, which could be happening. Vaccination is very successful. You were afraid of this and of the acquisition of vaccines and vaccinations, so you threw the rifle into the corn and left the government to Janez Janša, who formed the government, and I hope that by the end of the term she will also rule successfully as before. Everyone has the right to defend himself, including the President of the Government, as well as all members of the Government. Everyone can express their opinions, and you can't stop anyone from doing that. The Slovenian army has never been better, never better than before. She's doing her best in history, and all we can do is be proud. And it's all because of this government. He compared Germany and Slovenia. Why the Germans did not invest so much in anti-Korona measures – yes, because the Germans are rich and the economy is strong. Because they didn't have socialism, they didn't have communism, they didn't have LMSH in power, and Alenka Bratusek had SD. Therefore, it was not necessary to invest that much. But Slovenia could, and because of its investment, it shows it so well. That's perfectly clear to you. I can't comment, nor can I support your constitutional accusation. SD's been throwing masks down to support it. Who would believe that you will now go after John Jansha with serious intent? I've already mentioned the attack on the media, and there's more. In short, Levica participates, helps in the protests, actively participates in the infecting of people and such and such. I think someone's gonna take this client seriously. He carries totalitarian symbols by himself and in short, a living disaster. SAB and others, of course, who have never supported anti-Korona measures to help the Slovenes and the economy how, who will believe you or how could a person support such ideas of yours? I'll tell the clean end. I got a bunch of e-mails and messages from voters and voters, from people who elected me to Parliament, from our parliamentary strong parties with traditions that are covered by Slovenian tradition, from European tradition not to those who stop overnight with new faces and who behind you are some tycoons and some underground and some capital and so on and despite people has been writing to me. One Mr Ivan wrote said where you were before LMŠ to create new jobs if you are already so capable or why you should not rule and that the nation is already appalled at individuals mainly from cool opposition. Mrs Helena from Gagarsk, as well as from the Dolce End, says that we should all focus on the difficult tasks that are waiting for us to do something useful, not to sit in here, but to start such nonsense, because you see that you are not even in there because you are not interested in it anymore. This is a constant accusation because you see that this is all completely unrelated. And also Mr Franci from Lithuania says that proud heirs of the communists, that you will be distracted so much you are trying to throw away Janša's government only that is your goal and absolutely nothing else. Just how to blow up our government and how to throw Slovenia into crisis and back in the old days, who were, that we would drive again with fiddles and that we would warm up with carpets and that we would live like in the Kremenčki era. This is your goal so you have ruled now that the government is doing well. It works as necessary, people see it and such constitutional accusations, and this circus you are inciting here is completely inappropriate and therefore unnecessary by political struggle you are exploiting the epidemic for your own promotion to the detriment of Slovenia. Get real, people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Reberšek to prepare Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. I wonder what our citizens will have from this point on the agenda today what they will have from this constitutional accusation by the Prime Minister. We are all aware in this Chamber, and this must be said to our citizens clearly and loudly, that the opposition will never gather 46 votes, so the only logical explanation that follows is that today this meeting is intended exclusively for the implementation of the pirate and the show of the left opposition of the parties to the left opposition. RTV is recording, enjoying this circus, being transmitted, of course citizens are watching it now, commenting. It's a show and nothing else. I assure you that if it were not for this television broadcast, this meeting and all the other meetings would probably end very quickly. Because that's what people watch at home are so intense attacks on one side or the other. But the fact is, and this is the common denominator of what I want to say that this Government is doing, we are proving this in difficult circumstances. We improve the living conditions of people. I don't have much time to put it all together, but I would like to point out the free living of parents of children under the age of 15 in hospitals and hospital benefits. That's what we've arranged in this coalition this government. Reimbursement for parents of children with special needs. Ask the parents of children with special needs ever, under which the government they got as much as they got right under this government. We're helping firefighters. Ask firefighters when they've got as much as they've got now. Ask the pensioners when they've got as much as they've got now. In the Savina Valley, it is built rapidly for a long time. Bridge in Letuši Šempeter, Prebold, Maria River, road to Vransko. We have a new dental outpatient in Vransk, too, because of this government. We will raise the general income relief so that more people will be left. By the way, in the previous government in the government of Marjana Šarca, you have overrun our proposal and you have not supported us now by having scissors and canvas in our hands, not to mention free kindergarten for the second, third or all other children. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. We've kept 300,000 jobs, we've helped 32,000 companies. We spend the most money on family measures in recent years. It's being built up all over the country in a hurry. It's mostly working. This government is working. But we're going through the end of our hair, which is what you can see when I hear how much we owe in this country. Former governments, such as the government of Alenka Bratušek, who put money, 5 billion, into a bank hole, and then none of you ever wondered who was going to pay it off. But now that we're giving people money, suddenly it's a big problem. So we give money to people, we give money to vulnerable groups, families, businesses to survive this period, and we don't put money in a bank hole, like some other governments have done. Alenka Bratušek is talking about worrying about public debt. And she brought us to the edge of the wreckage. I am listening in this National Assembly of Members of the Left and Members of the SD that we will not spend too much. Wrong world. Where you were at TES-6 when the crime investigation found half a billion missing. But you weren't worried about public finances at the time. Mainly, the results of this government cannot be denied, but if we debate here all week long, if we convene ten meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare for Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. So much has been said and read today by colleague Jani Möderndorfer, who, if we remember, said that no one should endanger the health of others, but we are well aware that he put the mask down and said he would not participate in this mask or whether it was Mr Koprivc. Mainly Jani walked here without a mask, and now others see what we do and so on. He also said a lot of lies about providing the vaccine. For the last time, we had data on the Health Committee, so we will continue to meet on this topic on vaccines and procurement and so on. And it was very clear at the time, and Jani also has this information that something was not actually ordered in December but was not ordered because the delivery or delivery deadline was foreseen in the third quarter or fourth quarter of this year. So, in summer or autumn, we would, in fact, get these vaccines that we didn't order in the fall, in September. That is why the decision was made at the time, and today we know that we do not miss the vaccines. Don't hold it like you're saying. Indeed, there were not enough doses in the health care home, but that is enough in Slovenia now. The problem is that health homes are poorly organised or, above all, in Ljubljana do not want to include concessionaires, private doctors, or family doctors with concessions. And of course they kill themselves with it, instead of inoculating family doctors. For the example of our area where I come from, from Iga, our people must all go to the Economic Exhibition, drive from those 85 years forward, everyone must go to the Economic Exhibition because the Ljubljana Health Center does not want to include concessionaires. However, he does not want to include them because, of course, he receives €14 for everyone he inoculates. We know who's setting up the health director at Ljubljana's health center. Municipality of Ljubljana and Mayor Jankovic. And I wonder if it's some sort of sabotage or organization that's not proud of us. Why am I saying this? Because these concessionaires had to come to Ljubljana to help with the vaccination. So our doctor from Iga came to Ljubljana to vaccinate Ižanci instead of vaccinate them on Ig. Because the Ljubljana Health Home organised it so well. And there was no problem in the purchase of vaccines, what you're reading because vaccines are, practically every time people will still choose who they want to be vaccinated with. It really wasn't like that at the beginning of the year, and that wasn't the choice. Now we're practically on it and the vaccines are coming, and we didn't miss anything when it wasn't ordered. And, as I said, we all have data from the NIJZ and from the Ministry of Health that they gave us at the previous meeting when we were talking about it. Another accusation that our president is destroying the Slovenian Press Agency. It's been said so much, it's kind of funny. If Mr Veselinovic estimates that Ukom is not competent, again, colleague Jani explained that he does not have any authority to do so, etc., although he has been doing so for 20 years, no Government has yet given a special mandate, but it has been a task assigned to Ukom. He signed a contract with Ukom for 10 years, sent him bills, signed a contract with him for 10 years, and now he finds out that Uko is not competent. If that's true, then why is he sending bills there? Why is he sending bills to Uko, monthly, if he's not in charge? Look, it's a fight for the shadow donkey, and he knows it. He calculated that by this time the government would fall and he would be a great hero, but now things are not going the way he planned and someone else probably did and things stopped. By the way, he also requested or put enforcement into accounts for January and February, but since there is no signed contract with Ukom this year, the court rejected enforcement. The Court has already found that there is no contract. On what basis, then, should Ukmi indicate the money? And the whole thing is complicated or complicated just because Mr. Veselinovic thought he would win this story, that he would enforce his own, that he would challenge the government, that Ukom was a competent authority for this area, although, as I said, he had signed the treaty with Ukom for the past 10 years, and that he had always been competent to Uko, but now he realized for once that he was not competent, and that he would only talk to the Government. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Communication is in office. Just like the government has a whole bunch of offices to do things for her. And also about prosecutors, or, excuse me, reports and publications on Twitter, etc. Look, if there's a violation of the Constitution on Twitter, I don't know where we are. In fact, the Constitution states that everyone has the right to express his opinion freely, etc. So that's not true either. Of course, I won't support the constitutional charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Did you raise your hand, sir? Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u133	Mr President, I would like to ask you that when, because in parliamentary practice, the practice has evolved that if someone does not discuss the subject of the sitting to warn the debater about this. Ambassador Reberšek discussed matters unrelated to the constitutional charge and, of course, cited inaccuracies. The bank hole was created because Nova Slovenija also participated in it during the government of Janez Janša and we had to pay 5 billion because of the debts incurred at the time and the debts had to be paid. It's the right thing to do. The other thing is that in the Savina Valley, next to the objects he listed, he also builds a third development axis, and I understand my colleague Rebecca, that he's very embarrassed after he's promised people what he'll do and then even his minister. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u134	Ambassador Reich, I have to interrupt. It's not procedural. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u135	I'm asking you to have all the same vats. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u136	And it's not procedural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u137	Look, the road's building and he's embarrassed because his minister does it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u138	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go. Just get ready, Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I had no intention of telling everyone in the position of the Group of Members what it meant, but I must congratulate my colleague, Jerce Korča, who, in her debate, ridden Ambassador Desus. Dear colleagues and colleagues from LMŠ, you had authority in your hands, why you handed it over to the authorities, why you handed it over to Janez Janša. We participated in your government, just to remind you that you played us, 1% of the extraordinary coordination of pensions you then submitted from the amendment to the amendment together with the SAB for 6.5 euros, which hurt us deeply at the time. Why did your Prime Minister give up the government? He didn't tell his coalition partners anything. Look at the fragment, not even your fellow Members before 25 minutes before the resignation. Then why would you participate in some opposition coalition to get us back on these. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u141	I'm glad that my predecessor finally admitted out loud that he was involved in the coalition itself, but we already knew that, but at least out loud he said, honestly, properly, I appreciate that. What I wanted to say will, of course, be debated only in the part where I see that some people just don't want to understand and they don't want to understand, but the facts are in the palm of my hand, so I will operate only with facts. How'd that order go? What some people learn. Mr President of the Government has become Minister of Health for the Time since he resigned from his former minister, 18. 12. 2020. BioNTech/Pfizer was ordered and you know that 15. 12. The European Commission has approved an additional 100 million doses for the whole of Europe under the system for war as to how much Slovenia belongs and at the time it is said when it is 18. 12. The Minister was able to increase the contract, it is said to increase and order this part, which belongs to Slovenia, Slovenia has cancelled this part. These are the doses that would come in the second quarter of Slovenia, which means that today we would have these additional doses I will say from BioNTech/Pfizer here in Slovenia, and we do not have them because of this. That's the facts. And when it was a press conference, they asked and asked the President of the Government a question. You all remember when he regained consciousness when he didn't realize that the contract wasn't actually signed and he only said one thing, and I'll check and arrange for that to happen. And when he checked it out, of course, he didn't go further to order this contract that he could. If we're talking about Moderna, the contract was signed, in short, 21. 12. it was signed by a representative of the Ministry, where she ordered the vaccine only from the main part of the contract and gave up the additional doses of the vaccine offered by the European Commission to the Republic of Slovenia. And here, of course, we're talking about the circus of 500 thousand extra doses of Moderne for the second quarter and nothing at the end of the year, what you're saying is something you're talking about. Doses under the basic contract were foreseen for the end of the year [[End of discussion warning sign]] Not the extra contracts. And here you fall on stories and lies. And direct responsibility for non-ordering is solely and solely the then Minister of Health, and this is the President of the Government. And this truth is simply with your vehement repetition of how it's not so you won't run away because there are documents about it. Unfortunately, this cannot be fixed within Lotus Note's system because it is already archived. I will continue the rest in the next debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the President of the Government and the representative of the motioner Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Of course, we will have to go through quite a few of the discussions that they had today and, of course, have been interpreted in their own way. Can I? Today was mentioned several times in the contract, and I think they were talking about Alenka and Ushay were both talking about the contract. Mrs Ušaj was very pleased to mention and focused in detail on Article 6 of the Treaty, which is the Treaty which I have before me and which is, of course, accessible by information of a public nature, which is accessible to all citizens. It was signed by Peter Penko and Branko Odrich with one purpose, which is that, of course, a press conference is being paid, I apologize, STA. What I mean is that, when it comes to Article 6, she is absolutely true, Mrs Ushieva. Article 6 should also be seen, but it is also necessary to understand what Article 5 says. Article 5 is very clear and clear in this Treaty, which states that the parties agree that the amount of compensation is appropriate for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the STA business plan for 2020. However, the business plan is an integral part of this contract as Annex 1. What does that mean in other words? While you know very well, the Slovenian public does not. It means that it is already predetermined on the basis of a business plan that is not accepted by Ukom or by the Government. It oversees the business plan and the implementation of the business plan by the Supervisory Board, which is that there, of course, also controls the operation of the STA itself. And more importantly, it is not only controlled by the Supervisory Board, but also by the external audit board, I will say an external audit of the accounts and, of course, also by the operations of the Slovenian Press Agency, which checks whether, of course, it is in accordance with the law and the rules of the internal acts, of course, this money is also properly spent. Let us ask ourselves what this public work is, in fact, which is something everyone likes to discuss so much. To make it very clear to the Slovenian public – the public part is the part that is accessible to every citizen without paying for one cent of information he receives at the STA. You know what that means. That means when I go to the Internet, I click on the STA and I open up information that is accessible to everyone the same. However, if I want to know more if I want to know what more STA has reported and prepared within this news, of course I become a subscriber or I pay the subscription and, of course, suddenly access to the business or commercial work that the STA offers. And that's all the art between public and commercial work. Now, you tell me how someone from Ukom can suddenly demand that words be summed up, how much is in the public work and how much is in the commercial work and what is the difference and how this is done, whether it is done or not. Because the reason for this surveillance was, of course, a publication between the information where the President of the Republic was and between one of the cultures where the interview was conducted and, of course, someone did not like it. This treaty, of course, also has very clear provisions if someone violates this treaty or what must happen. What Mrs Alenka said that the court refused – you know, this procedure is only at the beginning. I wouldn't brag too much about the Administrative Court because the case is likely to continue to develop. Only the devil is in detail who will bear the consequences of all the damage. That's the key problem. However, the fact is that the Government has not taken any decision to authorise Director Ukom to carry out this "pressing" and mobileing and, last but not least, to create this crisis situation with the State. What's more, everything runs on an informal level. That is why, of course, this is one of the reasons why it is said that the President of the Government is leading and directing and directing the work of the Government, and he did not see to it that he wanted to do so in such a way that the matter would run legally. Now, as far as his actions are concerned, I can say the following. If I'm going in the order of things - delivering vaccines, I explained that. Mr Perič said that we were afraid of some new faces or that we were in some doubt and so on. No, we're not in any doubt, we have no problem with that. However, the fact is that the very way in which it works is more or less in the National Assembly has shown that, of course, the matter has become completely unstable. But what's more important is that, aside from repeating the same mantra that you're not having this evidence for you, of course, it's a bad argument because you don't come up against the argument. The only one who tried to make some effort today and argue, the argument, was just one Member, all the rest of you had more or less campaigning here and explaining what you've done and how successful you are and how great it is and so on. And I don't blame the SDS for the fact that lawyers are their president, far from that, I don't blame them at all. I don't understand the other representatives of the Members. I really don't get it. Because you don't have to because you're going to smile. [[…]] Mr. Doblekar, he says we have a circus here. You know, Mr. Doblekar, we have quite a circus here, but not too much to brag about with these circuses, because of the fact that you've shown them the most, here in the National Assembly, but only one fact is very important to me, is that you have no answers to the constitutional charge and to the facts. As far as vaccines are concerned, you cannot explain what is involved in Article 51 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. You cannot explain what is in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been gravely violated because it is an intentional disregard for official duty and which fulfils the legal signs of a crime, an undeclared work in the service, under Article 258 of the Penal Code. You do not know how to argue the failure to fulfil those obligations, reasonablely as an abuse of the official position of Article 257 of the Penal Code. I didn't hear that today. Even the President of the Government, the President of the Government, comes here and for a moment has the feeling that he is in a nice place and that he is explaining to his members what he will do here in his future. Excuse me, this is about the high ignorance of the National Assembly. The agenda item is a constitutional indictment, not a programme plan or a financial memorandum for the development of the Republic of Slovenia for the next 3, 4 years, what he said. He ran over, but, you know, because we understand that it was a tactic, right, it's clear to us on this side, but that you agreed to this discourse of your own president because he humiliated you, you because he's making a fool of you and you're simply silent. [[…]] You're all quiet and agreeing to work, I'll say, this sort of tragic performance in the National Assembly. And then, as the greatest political coward, he escapes from the National Assembly, under the pretext that he has other obligations. [[advertising from the hall]] Calm down. I'm asking you nicely because I'm discussing it now. You had your time to discuss it, President. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u144	Respected [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u145	Vice President, you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna fix this, so let's get them fixed up a little bit, and then you stop my watch, or you're gonna calm them down, or you're gonna do something! [[…]] [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u146	Your Honor, please, let's respect the speaker when he speaks. If you want, I'll stop the session, and you'll get a little chilly. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please! Mr. Speaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Vice President. I already told you at the beginning that you could have me any day. The President of the Government could make up a new event every day, what he does to others, I'll say stories where he tries to avoid certain authorities, and he has consistently proved this today, in the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but when he has a political crisis in the National Assembly, he can't be, or in the country, with a constitutional charge, he can't be anything more of a priority right now. Besides, the government's meeting has three vice-presidents, and he can have a government meeting with whoever he wants. Don't joke, it's an empty answer, if that's an excuse. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Let's move on. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Vice President, let's calm them down because they're rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u148	Please, please, calm down. Let's get to the point. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u149	Why don't you stop my watch? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u150	All the way. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u151	Because I'm running out of time while he's calming them down. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u152	Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u153	If we move on to the media. The U.S.A. did not explain and neither did you, who are his lawyer, Section 14 of the Government Act, which says that the President of the Government leads and directs the work of the Government. We're talking about when the government doesn't want to get to know the D.A. Very clear. The same applies to Article 66 PKP 7 itself, where we are talking about the STA. Where it is more than clear that we had a single purpose there when we supported this amendment in this PKP. We were aware that it would be a problem that the great servant of the President of the Government would probably not want to write new contracts, because this was a clear goal and everyone who had little insight into the body story was clear where the dog muco muli was, so we adopted such an article in the PKP 7 so that even without a contract it would not be possible to destroy the STA. For things are given, if they are evident, they are always allowed to demand back, and always the Founder can do so if he proves that the funds have been misused recklessly. No, nothing, we're going the other way. First they need to be destroyed, destroyed, and then I have free hands and I can set up a story from the beginning and do what Orban did when he also, of course, shut down his own press agency and set up a press agency that was according to Orban and his policies. Although he does not speak of the other Republic as our President of the Government does and has these dreams, of course the goal is exactly the same. How to control society, the best way to control information that comes out and that doesn't. He did not respond to Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. He did not respond equally to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which he violated and did not respect and then boasts here that he is a young father of the Constitution and that he knows it in his head. I'd be ashamed to say it out loud, if that's true. But the fathers of the Constitution were one another, John Janša. But now I see that this truth will change, that he is now one of the main founders, because he lives in some fog of 30 years of history how this Slovenia was created because of him. He's the devil with the prosecutors because he has the most experience. Why these two Delegated Prosecutors should not come, things are more or less clear. Let's just say out loud why not. One of the applicants' prosecutors was, of course, in January 2017, ProPlus participated in this procedure where Pro plus turned off the terrestrial broadcast, which means the end of the free viewing of POP TV and Channel A, while the cable and IP operators start charging. Operators, of course, charged viewers or households with this, and similar treatment was made by Telekom with Planeta TV. In February 2017, the Competition Protection Agency imposed infringement proceedings against ProPlus under Article 9 of the Law on Prevention and Restriction of Competition, and then suspended a criminal complaint in March 2017, which means that it decided to proceed with the criminal procedure under Article 225 of the Penal Code. However, the criminal offence of unlawful restriction of competition in April 2020 was adopted by the AVK in the decision of the specialised state prosecution, which dismissed the criminal charge of the AVK if the suspicion of an unknown crime was not raised. The names of the D.A.'s attorney in the U.S. Attorney's Office weren't revealed because they didn't owe him one. But it's unofficial to know who it was. It's supposed to be Matthew Ostir. And of course, the connections are more or less clear. Tanja Frankeler is supposed to be involved in the preparation of an action against Janša under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. The Devil is indeed one who opposes or comes into contact, even if it is a crime, even if it is a crime and comes into contact with the current Prime Minister of the Government, is perceived to be dead because as long as he has the opportunity and the power to influence it, he will do his best to remove it. Turn it off. And that's the word I was talking about at the beginning that he's just a freeway. If it's not his, it's nothing. This is a famous river known, of course, by the very good only autocratics. And he didn't answer today, nor did you answer who his lawyers were on the next question. Its delay in merely informing the Government of the candidates for the European Delegated Prosecutor, the suspension of the appointment of state prosecutors, the pressure on the work of prosecutors and the public call to hear protestors constitute violations of the Constitution of Slovenia, paragraphs 2, 39 and 135. You didn't answer that. The President of the Government waved his hand and said that he would not deal with it, because it is all without a connection, that he would rather talk about how GDP will grow and how we will all have no good things in life and we will all be affected and all of us in Europe know. Yeah, yeah, they only know us after that. They know us from the impossible tweets of the President of the Government and they know us after the impossible repression of the media just outside the door of the Presidency of the European Union or the European Council, where we will have one kind of story where we will discuss how all of us are equal in this European Union. Who else believes us? We're the last on the agenda, they don't want to mention Slovenia. He didn't answer. And the next thing you know. With Janez Janša in office as Prime Minister preventing the Government from considering it, she took note of proposals for a European Delegated Prosecutor, despite the fact that the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly requested the placement of the material at the government meeting. You yourself know that funny story that we saw, that neither the Justice Minister nor she ran out of words in one of the TV shows on national television. I didn't know who felt more sorry for me then. It is more than clear that if the Ministry of Justice has prepared and, of course, has already expertly assessed the prosecution council, both candidates are eligible to forgive who the government is, to say that they are not suitable. But now that we are talking about that the procedure is no longer proper to forgive in this National Assembly is the government service and representatives of the Government spoke when we passed the law on these prosecutors, it was more than clear that because the law will change, the invitation to tender is now in force once a night and, as I hear it, we all see that today, of course, the government will make a decision today or tomorrow, that it is no longer so and that it will cancel the call. Do you know what that means? This means what the Attorney General said more than clearly today. If the Government actually adopts a decision reporting to the media and repeals the whole procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, this could, in the opinion of Attorney General Drage Šketa, constitute an arbitrary intervention in the independence and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office. Now you tell me any more evidence you need? What proof? I don't know what you need to draw, write. I understand you're just gonna keep repeating the same mantra because I accept it, but you know people, if you're making a fool of yourself, people aren't stupid and understand that someone here is making a very serious fool of them. Someone would like to discipline the prosecutors at any cost, and no matter how much it costs. Why? Because someone very much likes to walk on the edge and sometimes also steps over the edge. Not only does the President of the Government not respect this National Assembly, that he does not respect the prosecutors, that he does not respect the media, that he does not respect anyone, and that you know that when he does not respect the National Assembly and the representatives of the people, he does not directly respect his own people, that he should hear them, and that he should protect, defend, defend and care for their health by law and stop them. And here we have a serious problem. Today someone was talking about media freedom and so on, and Charec admitted that I don't know who to give money to. Doblekar spoke about this, and earlier this morning one of the Members on my left. I didn't even write it down anymore because you're repeating the same story. Excuse me, if I am not mistaken, this Government has had one terribly good experience already in 2004-2008, where one of the Prime Minister's pioneers was able to resign because he clearly told who he could or should not finance himself and ordered all the ministries to stop ordering one of the weeks. Yes, it is, there are state-owned companies that, of course, finance high-end media and know that you rely only on state-owned companies, because a private company has promotional resources, but very clear and very targeted and wants to have a clear profit from these funds. I'm talking about Telekom, I'm talking about Petrol, I'm talking about a lot of society. Of course, over the years, these funds have decreased dramatically over the past ten years, as there is also a problem in advertising. In 2014-2015, if Telekom spent 44 million on advertising, it now consumes 7 million and half a half of it after the 2019 balance sheet review. Seven million and a half you know the battle is terrible. But interestingly, the Prime Minister of the Government has changed and Telekom has diverted his funding. It's very clear where these currents are going. But I've been talking about funds that are publicly visible from publicly available data. But you know that they are financed through companies in a different way, and I believe that the amounts are significantly higher, only I do not know, because I have no view of them, and I will not have them as long as Telekom is as he is. If we move forward, someone said today, I think it was yes, the Doblekar was, I'm sorry that someone was actively involved in the infection. [[…]] I'm sorry, but these are serious and specific accusations. Now I ask you, Mr Doblekar, who did you publicly announce because he did this because you know this is a crime. Tell me who. Of course it's rhetorical, because you can't even get to the word anymore, because it's time-consuming, but the fact is [[adverts from benches]] Will you calm down? [[…]] / adverts from benches/ Come on, come on, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, please let us abstain. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u155	Look, I didn't mention your name on purpose because I appreciate you a little bit more. But in principle, I would ask you to settle down for at least so long as I'm discussing it. Active infection is, of course, a serious problem. But I don't know if you realize what that means when you say it. / adverts from benches/ No, that's not it, my dear Doblekar. Yeah, you're in serious trouble. Mr Reberšek, of course, has billions of problems. It increases from 4 billion to 5 billion overnight, and I don't know what else it is that is increasing, but it has forgotten that someone has set up a bad bank so that, of course, these assets will come back from certain claims that were bad claims. And the bad bank is before, of course, we shut it down or shut it down. Five years ago, we could have done it because she was already fulfilling the conditions, but we're still artificially holding her to live. And this money that came from the sale is, of course, the repayment of these loans. If someone thought this money was going somewhere else, then of course it's breaking the law. Then tell me out loud, because then this is the subject of a new accusation against someone else, because it works illegally, because we have adopted such a law. But here we are primarily talking about the misunderstanding and ignorance of Mr Rebersk, who is talking about things he is not even aware of. Now, Mrs Alena Jeraj said that many lies had been made and that we had been briefed on the Health Committee on how these vaccines were handled. I've talked about this before, of course, it was, it was very precise, but you know, when you go to look at the papers, the documents, you see, of course, a lot of things are not true and it's all a matter of date games. When they see that we're close to the truth, it's all the fault of the former minister when you prove it, and they say that it wasn't, and today I've heard one of the stupidest things about not ordering vaccines, so watch out, because they didn't know much about these vaccines because they weren't tested. Please, why do we have an EMO? When EMA approves a vaccine on the European market to be used, it is also applicable in the Republic of Slovenia to enable it to be on the market and is safe for people. That's why this argument and this obvious is a complete fabrication, I don't know who pulled it out and where it came from, but it's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. I would understand that someone would like to order a Russian Sputnik vaccine that has not yet been approved by EMA, I agree there, not with Moderna, not with Pfizer. So you have serious problems in proving yourself, so it's one of the main things that needs to be identified, of course. And I'm going to say it again because I can see that this is a crazy thing to do. The President of the government is afraid, but not afraid of his position, the vice-presidents are drooling all the time, and I don't know if they've eaten, because then we'll take a break, and they'll be able to eat. No, before his position, he's not afraid of his position. He's afraid of people because he knows he's gone too far in all things. He began to believe in his own imaginary things that I would never believe in. But what's most important is that he can't explain and argue his accusations at his expense. I personally have a deep respect for the notion of innocence. Someone's not guilty until proven guilty, but that doesn't mean you're coming with accusations, you can't discuss them, and you can reject them with your left hand. This will not be decided by the National Assembly, whether it is his fault or not, by the Constitutional Court, which is qualified and therefore has a legal basis under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And today we do not decide whether he is guilty or not, but whether the constitutional charge goes to the Constitutional Court. This Constitutional Court once rescued him, but in another story, in another role, he was rescued as a representative of the opposition champion. Today, I have heard a new sentence that, as a political official, the President of the Government has special protection, please, if anyone, the President of the Government does not have any special protection if we consider physical protection in terms of his expression. The president of the government is 365 not in the year, 24 hours, all week. And his statements after Tweet and Rewitting you can explain what you want, in the end he's always the same person. And that's why, of course, he's not being held accountable. I am particularly interested in three specific charges, in the field of prosecution, in the procurement of vaccines, in the non-delegation of prosecutors and of course in the non-funding of the State, which, of course, represents all three as a grave intervention and violation of the President of the Government, both the Constitution and the legislation itself. There is a simple fact here that the President is not and cannot answer these questions. He came in front of us and redirected us and metaled smoke bombs, what a dangerous time and time for an epidemic. Excuse me, Prime Minister, according to your Janez Janša, everyone knows exactly what they know about the best situation in the crisis, and he doesn't want the crisis to go away because it feels like a fish in the water. Once the crisis is over, this fish will be dry. And she won't be able to swim anymore. And that is why, of course, it is a person who simply has no interest in ending the crisis. Because if he were to do it, he'd do it. He made a traffic light. It's below 300. Now you see, today we're all going to be surprised, there's going to be new proposals again, maybe 150, I'm just making it up because I don't know because he doesn't have this information, or under 200, or what's going to be under 150, just that the agony will continue because he can't live without it, because it suits him. But such a man is dangerous to this society. It is dangerous, since it restricts freedoms because it restricts human rights and, most importantly, it also confuses this country with an impossible violation of the Constitution and legislation. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, some end up just counting the votes and counting on whether this constitutional charge will succeed or not. The fact is, the Prime Minister does not have the courage to defend himself on these charges. And the most dangerous thing, you know, is when a person who does something wrong is against the law in the end even believing that it's actually legal. This is, of course, the hardest thing for a person to do to imagine that this is a problem. And that's what he does all the time. And there's no case with him. None. It's all very planned, thoughtful and pretentious. Today, some of you have citrated people’s letters; of course, you have read only those that fit you, or letters or messages, whatever you are getting. I could read them, too. You could read people's anger and wait for this story to end. And believe me, like I said before today, every story is over once in a while. You too. But I'm afraid the damage will be too great.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u157	President, I ask you kindly to ensure peace in the Chamber. When they're talking, we're quiet. When the proposer has a word, however, it is unacceptable for them to act that way. And then they talk about hatred, intolerance. They are. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Quiet Pojibich. I mean, I'm talking. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Look what they're doing. They're reaching out to us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u158	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u159	They don't allow us to respect the Rules of Procedure. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Look, Pojbich is now a cuckold while I'm talking. The word is mine, Mr. Pojbich. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yes, you have no right to interfere with my word. [[adverts from benches]] You're interfering with my word quite aggressively. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u160	Please! [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u161	Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, I have a procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u162	Mrs. Žibert, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u163	Please interrupt the session and calm down SDS as it is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u164	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u165	impossible [[…]] [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] They're aggressive. They'd be at war. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u166	Please, Mrs. Violeta!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u167	And give them weapons, and they'll shoot. [[…]] Because they don't like the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u168	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, please stop for a moment. Please. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I call on all Members and Members to respect the Rules of Procedure and the speaker! And when he says something to the end and no one has the right to interrupt and disturb him except the chairman. Here you go. And please, you respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, chairman. I really ask you and thank you for respecting the rules of procedure and that when someone has procedural, of course they do not jump into words. At least we'd imagine it in democracy, but apparently this party feels like it's the only one in the world that lives in some world. So please, I feel attacked by their side, their aggressions constantly. Protect us opposition Members, protect the proposer and really protect at least one order and order in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Once again, I ask you, Mr Pojbič, to respect the rules of procedure. / adverts from benches/ Here you go, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Chairman. Really nice and right, it is right to warn our side if we are too loud or anything, but look, we must be objective and just on all sides. To allow a Member to appoint a fellow Member, whatever the cuckold may be, it is lawful for a Member in this Assembly of State to do so, but look at it, not extremely frivolous. I know that she's an actress and that sometimes everything changes and that she thinks that politics is a game and that she's here, but look, we're in some serious choir. And the words of the cuckold, the criminal group and so on, look, it doesn't belong anywhere. But I, too, am afraid, I ask you to protect me, because this is the MP who supported the fascist manifesto on Ljubljana Street. And here I really ask you to protect me too, because I don't know what will happen next step.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u172	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I fully agree with you and let's be patient, please. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I'm guessing yes. If he wants to discuss the proposalr's representative, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, he will also be given a hearing. Please activate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone and will get the word as last. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Twelve panellists have been reported. Everyone has two minutes of time available. The first one has the word Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would first like to thank the distinguished proposaler, who has mentioned me six times in his final debate, five times. I also said before because he mentioned that the parties were supposed to somehow climb up these “losat” spones and I believe that Mr Jani Möderndorfer has something to say with this. It can “losat” customers go to another and I am also interested in how it manages to accept customer programs so quickly. Once this party, twice this and how these programs can be read and adapted to them. He talked about the STA public, public service, all available. On the other hand, half went on to pay. And if you have to pay for something, you know, the address is basically free of charge at first. The rest has to be paid almost literally everything, and this is not public for me, and this commercial part needs to know exactly how much it is, how much of that address is open. As far as the STA itself is concerned, the STA journalists are the victims of the Director of the State, Mr Veselinović, who has almost once more salary than the President of the Government, who must be 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, and I do not know how much more Mr Möderndorfer has given to the people of the country. And they're going to the gentleman's house at 2:00 p.m., for 8.9 thousand euros, and he's defending this man. STA journalists are precisely his victims because he has not presented all the documents and the opposition still wants the government or UKUM to work unlawfully to give them some money that does not belong to them. He mentioned Orban, but I will mention our Orbans, those who ruled before the Socialists, and the communists who are still everywhere in the judiciary, in education, we haven't done all sorts of illustrations, and, of course, the opposition also advocates this judiciary, which has committed many affairs including Patria, among other things, they haven't done anything to launder Iranian money and so on. I'm not surprised they're so supportive of this judiciary, the prosecutors and so on. In short, you threw a rifle into the corn. You didn't like to rule, you were scared, now you're afraid of Kalimer crying and you're running [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u175	Thank you very much. In fact, we've heard everything we're sitting here for. We talked about a lot of things, but at the very least we talked about the constitutional charge against the President of the Government that violates the Constitution, for example, if we quoted the Penal Code as a violation of article 42 of the Penal Code of the liability of a legal person, article 131 of which violates equality, article 135 of which relates to threats and intimidation, article 257 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, article 257 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, article 266 of the violation of human dignity, and so on. Of course, members of the coalition will support the President of the Government because you are blindly supporting him, but you support the anti-constitutional conduct and also the criminal acts and ultimately the unlawful acts of this President of the Government. You'll have to live with that. Now we're hearing about illustrations, socialism, and I don't know what and communism. Some yogurts have not been found if they were sought in a shoe store, but the fact is that we are absolutely in favour of an illustration and now that you are in power suggest that no one who has ever been to the communists can be in any government, in a new policy and of course not in the economy, because, unfortunately, only your President-in-Office is the only one who is trained in Kumrovec, which is very well known because he is a politician. Of course I'm Mrs. Bah Žibert's actress, you're not the educator. We've all come from somewhere where we haven't been trained professionally for politics, but we come from people who come from some environments, and of course that's not bad, on the contrary. Of course, we do not have this ability to manipulate, although some of you have learned very well about it. In short, please, this manipulation, instigation and sowing of hatred has really come to a point when I ask you to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u176	Joseph Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u177	Thank you, once again, for the vice president's word. It seems, therefore, that those responsible who have actually been responsible in this emergency situation in this epidemic are of the view that the constitutional charge of the President of the Government is unfounded and that it is not based on unlawful acts which would have had an application, the difficulty of using this institution at all. Those who have not somehow complied with the prescribed measures and have undermined these measures at every step and have also given a poor example to citizens by their irresponsible conduct and by promoting protests at the time of the epidemic and, of course, those today are proposing a constitutional indictment against Prime Minister Janez Janša, which is a kind of paradox. So that this government is doing well, we know who's wrong. And, of course, for the freedom of so-called media, it is not right that this government is doing well, that it is somehow starting to enforce some order in this country and then, of course, that it somehow involves stealing drinking water, I am interested in where and how many hectolitres have been taken away by our President of the Government, and how much have we here in the Slovenian Democratic Party put away these drinking water to run away for the rest of you. [[Incomprehensible]] And then it's actually not right for those of you that this government is doing well, of course it's justice. But it's embarrassing that you're talking to this Prime Minister of the government. [[End of discussion warning sign]] And you spit in your own words abroad. So I must say that you have gone so far as to abuse this institution of constitutional accusation against the Prime Minister of this government in your own intense struggle to regain power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Chairman. They say that history is a teacher of life, and in these days it is ten years from the financial bankruptcy and financial problems of the Maribor archdiocese. Let's just remember Zvon 1, Zvon 2, T2, Vegrad and other things, and when we talk about scattered public finances and record high debt, we need to remember the past that we know what will happen in the future. And people, of course, are irritated, dissatisfied, 300 thousand have been deprived of their right to work. More than 30,000 of our fellow citizens and businesses have had to ask for a suspension of the payment of credit obligations and they have not been paid for more than a year, which can in fact also be a bolt around their necks. And these are, of course, questions, so things that raise a number of questions and a number of hardships. And when we see how fast-track the government has taken action and, of course, it's supposed to be for the good of people in this way because such measures are impossible to be controlled because they change too quickly, they have been added to the involuntary. And one such measure, of course, is the adoption of the new Water Act, which was only in public treatment for 12 days. And, of course, this has brought great dissatisfaction among the people, two instigators. [[End of discussion warning sign]] were in, paragraph 69, which allowed the construction of hazardous buildings in water protection areas and, of course, in Article 37, for 4 pages of buildings that can be built on coastal land. So these are four pages of buildings with additions on the five sides of buildings that can be built on coastal land and on coastal land that can be built [[End of discussion warning sign]] Even a two-metre fence and, of course, we understand this as a possibility of privatisation or temporary restrictions on access to public goods and, of course, this decisively [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Gregor Time is up. Gregor Perič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u181	Thank you very much. According to the law currently in force, it is possible to build many more buildings than after a change or amendment to the law, so that people can say what they agree with, but with what they do not. I would also touch on the constitutional charge of one point which we may have neglected today, one of the points being the ban on the referendum on investments in the Slovenian Army. This seems to me an important issue that raises the issue of security and also the issue of systematic neglect of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia in this important segment of Slovenian society. We all know a lot to say about those key moments when we fought for our independence, now one evaluates a little bit more, one little less, one more south nostalgic, and I understand that, too, it's legitimate. However, it seems important to me that we do not ignore this segment. Here, not long ago, some were extremely loud and strongly opposed to any investment in the Slovenian Army and then went on the path of collecting signatures and trying to carry out a referendum that would prevent these investments as such. In the end, however, some sense prevailed and, in particular, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which said very clever, thoughtful and wise that the security of the State was not to be played and the Constitutional Court decided that a referendum on military investments was simply not possible. So this point, which has already been mentioned in the constitutional statements, regarding the constitutional charge, gives me the impression that it has tried to make easy use of everything that has been [[sign for the end of the debate]] At that point in time, the media and otherwise, the pianist, the reverberating, pushed in a little by inspiration, and if the war, the war, if not the ok, it's important that we chat a little. So we've spent nine hours today. I'm sorry that we haven't been more constructive and patient in this respect, but that's the current political spirit, which then also reflects on the streets, and I believe that it suits many people. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and it further spreads, but it is not good for our citizens and citizens, and so that we are primarily looking for solutions in peace, because I think that only paid for it in particular. But absolutely constitutional charges, as I have already said, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I am speaking mainly because I would like to say that, in the previous debate, the applicant misunderstood me or was deliberately misled. I was not talking about the contract, but I was talking about Article 6 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, Article 6, which deals with the principle of financial transparency, in the performance of the public service. And why was I talking about it? In view of the fact that it must be clearly visible under this Article, the part which is financed for the public service and the part which is for the marketing activity and this from the annual reports, which the applicant then further referred to, is not visible or opaque and hidden. But they're disguised for what? Since the revenues that the UK has calculated on the market from media buyers and buyers and not from the media market for public services should prove to be public service revenues, it shows them wrong, which is the revenue from market activity, which means that it is also misleading the National Assembly. Furthermore, these errors should also be detected by the statutory auditor of the STA annual accounts, but there is no and the current supervisory board in these two mandates has not ensured that this irregularity would be remedied, which means that the actual annual reports we receive in the National Assembly are incorrect and imprecise. They need to be revised, real results need to be achieved, results that will show market and public work, [[sign for the end of the debate]] to follow Article 6 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act and I wanted to say this. I wasn't talking about Article 6 of the Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good bye to all of you! We are already drawing this debate to a great extent, but I thought we were a little lost. We had a more political debate, but we talked less about the violation. Look, democracy is not without the rule of law, it's not. There must be some rules that we must abide by, and there is a clear reflection in democracy, one is the legislative authority where we are, lays down rules, another executive authority, and the third is the judiciary and we have, but it is all very important, the media. Without the media, there's no democracy. So we're talking about people's information, people's impartially good information. This does not mean that we have some private media, social media, that this is some very high-quality information of people, so, it is this and now, these two accusations that, what is the charge, is constitutional, what is possible under the law and the Constitution, and are clear signs, are completely clean, which makes it impossible to act, which is the responsibility of the President, so this is the case. And secondly, interference, prevention, appointment of a prosecutor. This was proposed to the Government and not done. See, the essence of democracy, we say again, we have different opinions, different views, different truths and give, something that has been said in the end now and welcome, let's calm down a little bit of this rhetoric, because people are, I don't know, talking through each other in the way that it was today to feel all God, since he's barely a technician, he's the third, the fourth, it's not going, we're lowering ourselves level and reputation in front of our people. It's not working. We passed the code, let's keep it. I'll take the case, I'll say, on SDS, let's stick to some rhetoric and manner of your group leader, Daniel Krica, or on the Left, let's stick a little to Matthew T. Vatovac. [[Incomprehensible]] I mean, we need to talk decently and in the right way and this accusation is in place and we've put it in place. That's it. And so is our opinion, and so we see and think that the government is doing bad, not good. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Gradually, here you go, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u187	Dear President, I would still ask that you warn my colleague not to let me smooch here who I should stick to, because I'm never offended in my deliberations and I don't know why he generalises and throws me into a basket with someone based on his prejudices, I don't know with whom. So I'm asking for an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u188	Mr Vojko Starović did not smooch, I did not so understand and I suggest we move on. Anya Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, it has been exposed several times, not to the content of the document itself, but to everything else. Of course, I would talk about the document if there was anything out of it to understand that the problem is or that anything is based on some reality. Some in the debate what you are saying, Prime Minister Janez Janša broke the law, violated the Constitution, this from the Left, they are, say, prosecutors, judges and already completed the proceedings. According to the system of the previous term, when they took a term of office contrary to the Constitution, but this is the extreme left-hand manner, which is how they work. But I would talk about documents if there was actually something to talk about. I said that if we took a good look at it and felt that some overly over-policy had been persuaded to take over this proposal today, because there are stupidities written in it or such a record should be attributed to themselves. So, a politician who's been in power for 20 years. The right to health care as a human right requires the active functioning of a country which must take appropriate measures to ensure that citizens and citizens receive the necessary preventive and curative health measures. Who should have done that already? That's not the problem today. We've seen numbers before of what happens to cancer patients. The problem is waiting years, which are a series of years. I don't have any more time. You keep saying similar lines. Protection is legal, we are talking about health, it is a legal good on which the exercise of other rights depends largely on. Yeah. But look, you've missed this time and today we have to fight the epidemic with the health system that we have, and thank God that this crisis has been successful. But we know that, and how long we've been talking about this, that something is going to happen, and today you're writing this down in the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister, who's been in power for a year. That's not serious to me. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The constitutional charge we are witnessing today is without content. Your colleague proved to you that she's a legal tramp, she's out of data, and she's out of evidence. In the debate, we even heard if we needed the evidence, but let us provide it. I mean, if it's not a joke, I don't know what it is. As for the vaccines, I propose to citizens to look at the contribution, Mrs Alenka Jeraj's debate, which has precisely explained that the vaccines have been properly obtained. As far as the U.S.A. is concerned. See, Article 6 says that there must therefore be a law, that there must be a market and a public part. Why this has to be demarcated – because the government, the financier, needs to know what the market share is going to be, because that market share then reduces the public part that the government should invest in a public agency. But the money that's left over can rather be spent on schools, kindergartens, homes, hospitals, for the elderly. The form of this debate is indeed farce. But the most hurt is the rudeness, as well as the emotional charge from which she looks and feels pure hatred. And we have not remained unharmed in the anger of Mrs Korčetova and the threats of Mr Bandell, how everything will have to be cleaned up. You heard right, we're gonna have to clean up. And with the threats of Mr. Luke Mesac, [[sign for the end of the debate]] How we're all responsible for all this. I think it's a demonstration of stupidity, shame and hatred and mockery. Of course I can't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u192	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word, Mr Pojbič is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u193	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I won't speak from the constitutional charge anymore. My friend Jani, you have encouraged me in your final debate. I must tell you that you will not insult my president. I have to tell you this clearly. Our client is 32 years old. I've been a member of this party for 26 years. My congregation committee counts slightly less than four hundred members, tell me which municipal committee of which party on the right, on the left counts so many members, is not the largest. In short, Jani, you will be saying that my President is harmful to this country that built this country. [[adverts from benches]] But you, in the 26 years that I am a member of this party, have been in LDS – I must tell you today, and this party has failed. You came with Mr Jankovic to the National Assembly through Positive Slovenia. You weren't even able to elect the Prime Minister. You went to Alenka Bratusek. You went to SMC. You're a recorder in this term, maybe you don't even know it. You were in one term in two coalitions, and now you're in the opposition. In short, I allow you to deceive. But you won't insult my president for being harmful to this country. You will not even insult our members and members who are over 30,000, but the client is over 32 years old. I respect all Members and [[sign for the end of the debate]] Members of this Assembly of the State, including you. But I will not allow it, and I repeat that you will insult us Members and Members, and consequently our members and members. But at the very least, we can talk about my constituents so you can insult our president. You have done all of this in the 30s of the history of the Republic of Slovenia. If you collect 45 signatures of this National Assembly, I'll give you 46th to be Prime Minister. But don't make fun of us. Thank you. / adverts from benches/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u194	Thank you very much. There is no replica in time-sharing, Mrs Tomić, so we continue with the last debater. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I have to say why I protested earlier when the vice president held the meeting, but not because of him, but because I listened in this National Assembly to talk about ours, yours, them, us, you. That's why I protested and said, please stop sharing the National Assembly, our representatives of the people, no matter what political option anyone comes from. Stop doing that because it's passed on to people. That's one thing. The other thing about Janius Möderndorfer is that I can't believe he can afford to say the following. Prime Minister Janez Janša is a coward. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, the greater coward than you have ever met. When decisions fall, you go from one party to another, because you are unable to stay in one party, you do not have a spine. If we had a spine, we'd stay in the client room. And this, Mr Jani Möderndrfer, why do you think you have been proposed to propose this constitutional charge? Think about it. That's what you need to think about. Everything you've been to has been ruined. And for the end of three things. First of all, listen to me. The constitutional charge would be due to those or KUL coalitions who left empty warehouses of protective equipment, not to those who made up late in their inhuman efforts and protected tens of thousands of lives, tens of thousands of lives, I apologize. The constitutional charge would be due to those who, with public money, enslaved the Slovenian media scene to unilateral reporting and not to those who demand clarifications for a non-transparent way. Thirdly, the constitutional charge would be deserved by those, i.e. the KUL coalition, who in the pro-Russian ambitions isolated us from the Western world and not those who reminded the European public once again that Slovenia is a sovereign partner in Europe. That's why, of course. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Your time's up. We have a procedural proposal. Mrs. Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u197	Please inform Mr Pojbič that we have accepted the ethical code, that we are here all the time to talk about having a decent level in the debate, not to discredit the names of individual Members on such low and according to the manners. Please remind him. Because the way he went after MP Möderndorfer is true, I mean, rejected to extremes, indeed. That's disgusting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u198	Thank you very much. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Can I answer you first, Mr. Pojbich? Your procedural proposal is only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but in view of the debate that has been held so far, I think there have been a lot of mutual personal accounts, so that in the end it will not be me who will now be making order in these two minutes' performances of Members, who only the applicant has a word, so that we will end up with these accounts anyway. And it does not seem fair to me that now only Lord Pojbich would be admonished, but that someone else would have earned a reminder earlier in the day, but he did not receive it. Mr Pojbič has waived the procedural proposal. Mrs. Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u199	Then I propose that, President, you and those who also preside, when you do not chair, you simply begin to stop these discarding practices of such discredits, nominal discredits. Just when it's enough is enough. This is really hard to bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Now this was not a procedural proposal, but a statement was taken. But it is true that each discusser has his own Word treasure. I won't touch him. However, it is also up to the President, yes, what standard of discussion allows. Now in my time, there were no reckonings today. And they probably won't be here now, because all we have is the last debater. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Well, these last debates were actually just a little bit of a blur, because everyone had to say a little, because they couldn't, in fact, at the time they were running out. Most of them were depressed, but I'm going to do my best, and I'm going to answer at least the part that I think is right to answer. As far as I'm concerned personally, you know that today is the constitutional charge of Janez Janša, Prime Minister, not Jani Möderndorfer. However, I look forward to any criticism you make, especially when there are personal disqualifications on me, because this just proves to me that you no longer have any arguments and that this is essentially a reflection of hopelessness, because you do not know what else to do. You're not gonna hurt me with this anymore, because I'm actually used to it on this side, so I'm not even gonna react to it anymore. By the way, a constitutional charge in one year, as was said today, if it is not worth it, because only one year is the Prime Minister of the Government. Let me remind you, you have filed a constitutional charge against Marjan Sarc on the 100th day of his government, so that this discussion is actually kind of depressed, and I didn't mean to discuss this today because we are discussing the constitutional charge of Janez Janša. But, of course, something else is more important. This seems worth answering to Mrs Usai, if we have had a misunderstanding, I apologize. I really meant the contract and not the law, but I went to look at Section 6 of the Law, talking about a similar matter practically. And the problem is, you know, we can't just watch the law in Section 6, and we need to look at the whole thing, and this law is talking about a lot of things, and not just the STA Act. [[warning signs for the end of the debate]] , but also the Company Act. Let's say I give you one – 512th article the right of an accomplice to information and to look into. Speak clearly. Among other things, the manager may refuse a request for information or an examination if it is likely that the shareholder will use it for a purpose contrary to the interests of the company and with that company or its related company has suffered significant damage. More than clear what this government is doing. But let's get to the point. We had a constitutional charge today. [[End of discussion warning sign]] , which had no answers to the charge itself and thus earned the President of the Government that the constitutional charge goes on to the Constitutional Court and clearly states whether it is justified or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u202	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made today in accordance with the meeting's time frame, which is half an hour after the end of 16. [[?]] agenda items. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL LEGISLATION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u203	Madam President, thank you for your word. Well, hello, everyone here. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law is prepared in response to the difficult access to suitable apartments that we face in Slovenia. With the proposed novelty, we want to stop the trend of the collapse of the public rental fund and create sustainable conditions for the employment of housing funds. The novelty contains only urgent changes to the law, which will in a relatively short time have positive effects and will not require additional administrative burdens. We are aware that the proposed solutions will have to be followed by further steps towards the systematic revision of housing legislation. The key changes proposed by the novels are: firstly, the harmonisation of the amount of non-profit rent; secondly, the adjustment of the rent subsidy system, which ensures that the increase in non-profit rent will not affect socially disadvantaged tenants; thirdly, the higher eligibility of the borrowing of housing funds; fourthly, the establishment of a public rental service to be used for the activation of the existing and unoccupied housing fund; fifthly, the preliminary right for the housing fund to sell habitable municipal land intended for multi-residential construction; sixthly, the mandatory separate accounts for the reserve funds of each multi-resident building; seventhly, the new possibilities for the supervision of key owners over the operation of the administrator; and eightfold lower the necessary consensus for the execution of multi-residential buildings; and, while also ensuring the legal protection of over-voted owners. [[Incomprehensible]] At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, amendments were adopted to the draft law, which are mostly of a technical nature and are intended to align the provisions with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. With regard to the amendment tabled to Article 6, which we will be considering today, we report that the Government does not support this. In establishing an illegal real service in common parts, this is a real legal burden, which constitutes a limitation of property rights with another real right. This matter is governed by a real legal code that clearly lays down the conditions for such availability. With the proposed departure from the decisions of the real law code, there would be an inappropriate solution, as the acquired right could not be entered into the land book. I therefore appeal here that the proposed amendment to Article 6 be not accepted. To conclude, I would like to point out once again that we have before us a law that truly addresses the most pressing areas of housing policy in Slovenia, which the Government believes should be adopted and enforced as quickly as possible. On behalf of the proposer, we propose to the National Assembly that it be decided that a third consideration of the proposed law be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Robert Rožec, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body by the mother, and I give the floor to Mr Bojan Podkrodsk, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u205	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 29th meeting, 4. 5. 2021, as the parent labour body, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. On behalf of the proposaler, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mr Robert Rožanc, emphasises that the proposed amendment of the law seeks to create a downward trend in non-profit housing and establish sustainable operating conditions for housing funds. As a key solution, he highlighted the alignment of the amount of non-profit rent from 2.63 euros to 3.5 euros and the change in the system of rent subsidisation and extended permissible borrowing of housing funds to encourage investors to build or acquire new rental apartments. A preliminary right is also laid down for the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the sale of habitable municipal land intended for multi-residential construction. The obligation of the fundamental accounts for the reserve fund of each multi-inhabitation building in particular and the possibility of electronic voting as one of the means of deciding on the operations of the multi-inhabitation building, the proposal of the law also sets out in a textual manner the business of regular operation and operations exceeding the regular operation, with an amendment to the agreement on improvements and construction works for which the building permit is required. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Ms Helena Rus, explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had made certain comments to the bill, which had been largely taken into account by amendments from the coalition groups concerning others, and the competent ministry had provided written explanations. The opinion on the bill was also made by a representative of the Council of State, State Councilman Dejan Crankek, who stressed that the State Council supports the bill. He pointed out that the proposal for a law had the most pressing problems in implementing housing law and the first step in highlighting the more normal situation in housing policy. At the same time, the State Council expects the Government or the competent ministry to join the comprehensive reforms of housing law as soon as possible and to address the remaining open questions in the housing field. In the course of the discussion, the discussion referred mainly to the proposed solutions as positive, in particular the regulation or harmonisation of the amount of non-profit rent, which was one of the brakes that kept the housing fund from being embezzled or purchased for a longer period of renting of apartments due to a lack of funds, but even sold them, since they could not afford to depreciate their apartments or depreciate them. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, Nova Slovenija and SMC to the seventh article of the bill and its amendments to Articles 6 and 46. The Committee thus voted on all the articles together and adopted the proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 63rd extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today, so we are moving on to a debate on the article and on the amendment tabled. So I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the SD Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since I can see it's an interest, I'm opening a report. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word mag. Andrej Reich, get ready, mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u207	It's a nice greeting to everyone on my behalf, too. I am pleased that there is, in fact, one consensus on the subject of housing policy by Slovenian parliamentary parties, that this matter must be resolved and addressed. [[…]] In fact, in this case, I would like to emphasise the importance of sending clear messages on the real estate market in this year since this epidemic has grown wild and unreasonable, including by state and local authorities, on the rental and non-profit housing market. All statistics show that the number of unoccupied dwellings in all municipalities in Slovenia is increasing. So for the past ten years, this trend has been seen as an increase and, of course, we want this to be made clear by the Government and local communities, so local housing funds, and also on the basis of this amendment of the law, what will be the understandable target price of non-profit rent, if we are talking about five, six euros, that is, in the main cities. Four euros in the lower cities must essentially be the responsibility of the Government and the local communities that own these apartments, to make it clear that the acceptable rent is non-profitable between 200 and 300 euros per decent apartment and that, on the basis of the construction price of around 1,000 euros per square metre, the local community can also undertake such projects. [[…]] I think that this is a very important message that should go out of Parliament, from the government and from local communities, and that housing funds also become active players in the real estate market, that it is not that it does not stay that I will say somehow subordinate to the movement that we have been witnessing for a long time now. [[…]] I think that this is very good and, of course, in connection with the use of renewable energy sources, we support all the measures that are going in this direction. The government has expressed some of the concerns that have to do with this. I expect these concerns to be addressed as well. Of course, in the light of the decarbonisation of society, it is also necessary to address these problems and to take measures that will enable effective measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Given that we have only one amendment, of course a somewhat broader debate is allowed, but I would still appeal to everything to focus on the content of the amendment. However, it is some consistent parliamentary practice to still make a few sentences. They don't have much time at all, so we'll still allow a few sentences wider than the amendment. Just so much for an explanation, considering there were a few strange views in the hall. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, everyone. I'm just going to focus on what's under the amendment. These are cases and situations in which this reduction in the share of the necessary consensus is taking place. We know that the problem most often in multi-housing buildings is that there is always one or two owners who heat up or heat up life for everyone else and do not allow any upgrades to the building or building operations that would be helpful and for the good of all, but not possible. For this reason, it was also the idea of the Group of Non-Aligned Members that among these interventions, for which 75 per cent of the consent is proposed, the creation of an unfair real service in joint parts for the construction and management of the power plant on renewable energy sources, that is, solar power plants, if this power plant also allows partial coverage of the needs of the floor owners. The establishment of this invalidity of real service is not only necessary if the investor decides to use all the energy produced on its own in this building, but if it wants this energy to be sold forward and used, of course, as a market category, then the problem is and 100 per cent consent is required, which is certainly not a good solution and limits, in fact, all investors who have the need, will and desire to make this progress also in energy generation. We also warn and this practice suggests that in such cases it is not possible to expect investors to decide to build larger solar power plants on the roofs of multiple residential buildings, precisely because they will exceed the self-sustainment concepts of all tenants in the building and it would not be possible to separate this excess energy or produced energy from what essential owners need. Therefore, the explicit determination of the establishment of a real right in common parts, such as a business that goes beyond regular management and which requires the consent of 75 per cent of the top-level owners, is seen as a comparable and appropriate restriction on the exercise of this property right of those high-level owners who, for example, do not agree with this business. We in Slovenia have the problem of having very little spent solar energy, not even renewable energy and photovoltaics here negative, but primate. Solar power plants, for example, out of all the electricity generated, give only 1%, which is frantically small in 2021, and if we want to achieve these set goals that we once had, for example, for 2020, that one quarter of the energy generated comes from renewable sources, but we are at a very small percentage, then we have no choice but to set a new goal of achieving at least 27 percent in 2030, that is, after 9 years, and this measure that we are trying to implement today, we see as something that will help exactly that. It would therefore make sense to take advantage of all the potential that the roofs of multi-housing buildings allow for the installation of such power plants from renewable energy sources. We know that they are mostly equal, we know that they are empty, we know that they are unused, we know that they are letting go, that they are the source of the cost itself and of course the dispute between owners, and that all of this could be resolved by just what is mentioned here. The key owners benefit from such a solution and from the creation of an unfair service when setting up a solar power plant as a direct benefit because they receive a monetary compensation for the service, but also as an indirect benefit because they have the possibility of self-sustaining electricity from these renewable energy sources. Of course, this also reduces their electricity costs. In addition, they only increase the value of real estate for electricity production, which is certainly not a small one. To shorten, I think it's clear enough why this amendment makes sense. I expect your support, thank you for the understanding and time you've given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the next word, and Mrs Nataša Sukič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u211	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space! Of course, we have before us this Housing Law, which has been on these benches for quite some time. I must say, however, that, to feel at the previous point of the agenda, that we are Members and Members together with the Ministry, in this case with the Ministry of the Environment, both left and right, when it comes to living things, I have in mind dwellings, housing law, and when I have also followed this law on the committee I run, on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, when I have listened to the debates of Members and Members, I must admit that I was impressed that everyone, in most cases, wanted this law all good. Of course, the Secretary of State here on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, our Group of Members, I must thank you. Give those thanks to your minister, mag. Andre Visiak, you, of course, the team that's working on housing issues. With this law, of course, we will correct everything because this area has been nourished in the past. I'm not going to list it now. However, it is as the Council of State has said, and we have also found this on the Committee of Directors, including at the meetings of this Assembly of States, that there is still some work to be done in this area in the future. But in this area, with this energy law that you put into this law at the Ministry with your colleagues, in short, what our MPs added to this national council is, if I may call it, a product that gives one bright spot in the residential area in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, thank you to all, especially Members and Members. Perhaps, however, as in charge of our parliamentary group for this area, I would like to refer to the amendment which my colleague Rajić has highlighted. I, as I mentioned earlier, am of course in favour of all proposals. But here is one thought in our parliamentary group. Of course, no one in this national assembly wants to adopt a law, which he may not want to touch. I mean, if someone buys in a block, a young family buys an apartment, there's no solar power plant on this block. Of course, when he buys it, it's a fact. But it can happen after this apartment, of course, you have to rent a loan for this apartment, give a lot of savings, a lot of denial. Someone sets up a solar power plant and this owner doesn't like it, but I think we have concerns here in our parliamentary group, so we believe that the proposal presented by Ambassador Rajić was well-meaning. Here, however, we have concerns, so that we will not be able to give our votes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to this amendment. In short, thank you, Secretary of State, Minister, of course, to all Members and Members who have actively participated through all the discussions in this Housing Law only with one goal, what is most important and this should often be felt in this National Assembly in this case, of course, to solve the housing problems, especially the young people in the Republic of Slovenia. However, there are also, of course, these problems in a number of areas, which should be our practice to work for a common goal, and in particular to work for our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Natasa Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting from me, too. This marriage, I will also make a little more general comment first, and then I will also touch on the amendment that is before us today. This law, of course, contains something not only very good but excellent solutions. But unfortunately, and this really saddens me, this coalition of insults is once again running out of time to listen to and support the opposition's amendments when they are well-intentioned and could further improve this law. But first, I'm going to touch the positive side of this law so I don't start criticizing. In short, this law contains some very good solutions and we have also admitted this in Levica, for example, raises the value of a point in the calculation of non-profit rent, allowing investment in the construction of public rental apartments. Some relationships are well regulated, for example, between high-level owners. We also welcome the increase in the possibility of borrowing public housing funds. After all, it is a solution that we have proposed with the amendment to the amendment of the Housing Law in 2017.We also welcome the changes in the field of non-profit rent subsidy, in particular the weighting of the minimum income in the calculation of the subsidy for single-member households, then the raising of the maximum subsidy, then the raising of the maximum non-profit rent subsidy from 80 to 85 per cent of the non-profit rent and the raising of the subsidy to the market rent, all of which we really welcome and thank you for the fact that things have gone this way. Unfortunately, in the second reading, as you know, we had some suggestions to improve this law. For, sadly, this law, for example, reduces the time limits for the lenders. What does that mean? This is not good news for tenants because throwing tenants on the road is simplifies and even in this law gets a special article and this is what we have warned about and we have tried to prevent with the amendments but unfortunately you have not somehow heard you were not knowing enough subtle enough to understand that it is a matter of protection that I will tell the less wealthy people and these people will now have even more problems. In fact, non-profit rents will rise, but this law, as it was said, does not contain adequate fuses for some poor tenants. This is true for the poorest, but it does not contain them for those who are, say, slightly above the poverty threshold, but are still very poor, and this country admits to their very poor social situation by exempting them from the payment of participation and security in renting apartments for those on the so-called a list for, say, a three-member family where both parents on the minimum wage will increase the rent by 30%. In addition, the public rental service, which is not a public service for subsidising speculative real estate capital, is on top of it, and that is what is not good in this law. Unfortunately, as we have said, we have proposed in the second reading of the amendment, and you have, of course, overrun them as you will, unfortunately today, also overtake the amendment proposed by the SD and proposed by the Non-aligned Members. We will, of course, support this amendment, why? This amendment, which is before us today, lowers the share of the required consent to establish an illegal real service, to place solar power plants on the roof of multi-housing buildings from 100 per cent to 75 per cent. It needs to be understood. In fact, in every multi-housing facility, where there are multiple apartments or blocks, and so on, unfortunately there is at least one that begins, which makes it more complicated, even if only because of the principle that it is addictive and that this person can block and hinder everyone else in such good things as setting up a solar power plant, because ultimately it contributes to the green future too, if we want to. Now abandonment is therefore a renewable energy problem, and therefore, of course, I welcome or welcome the fact that this is not a 100% consensus, but a 75% consensus. This is indeed necessary, because in Slovenia, investment in solar power plants has stood for a long time, and unfortunately in this area we are far behind where we could be, so if we want to increase the share of renewable electronic renewables in electricity production. That's one thing. Secondly, with the introduction of virtual net metering, which was first proposed by law in Levica in the previous term, and then managed to get it into the coalition contract of the Government of Marjan Šarc, the construction of solar power plants accelerated. In fact, and for the first time, solar power plants have also started to grow in multi-housing buildings. I went myself one of those sightseeing sightseeing visits to Jesenice as a Member of Parliament, and I must say that the matter made me very excited when I looked closely at what it looked like in practice. Since there are currently distributors and SODOs in the field doing their best to stop investing in the solar power plant as much as possible, this amendment is therefore also very important. If we had a trend of about half a year ago, say, up to 100 solar power plants per month, this March has completely stopped and in two months none of them have been installed, and this is what we can worry about. And the problem is that electricity is unfortunately, and we know it, and we cannot blind ourselves, shot with various lobbyist interests, who in any way want to preserve the status quo, and of course this status quo inevitably leads from the climate crisis, in which we are already, to the climate disaster, in which we will, if we continue on such paths as to not accelerate the use of renewable energy sources, but even stop, as I say. And why this amendment is still important – because, as I said in the introductions, in every block, there is unfortunately someone in every multi-housing building who would block such a project. And we have a problem, as you know, with the renovation of buildings. We already have problems with the installation of elevators in these multi-housing buildings and, of course, there will also be problems with the installation of solar power plants on the roofs, even though no one will really be disturbed. And here I do not agree with the Member of the Committee's President-in-Office, when he says that when he looks at one person who doesn't like it, you don't look back on the majority that you want. But let's not let the majority go, as we say, but let's say that we should strive for as much as possible, and I will say that we use renewable energy. [[…]] And so it would be good to support this amendment, that at least here something is heard, that finally there is cooperation between the coalition and the opposition, that something is finally taken into account. But not just because he's from the opposition, but then, unfortunately, he's not being accepted. I'm sorry, because otherwise, as I said, basically, if there weren't for these things that I listed, this marriage for my terms could be great. And some things are really good, but unfortunately some of them aren't, and I think it would be right for us to at least support this amendment, which is before us today, if you're not already ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. First, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Igor Peček is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Now, I absolutely do not support this amendment, which has been tabled by the SD's proponents and the group of those Members who have resigned from their parliamentary groups. This is for me, I would like to say one marriage shortcut, how to get around as many owners as possible in multi-housing buildings in a multi-housing facility. I think here the proponents have forgotten, I'd say one thought of what's nice, what's right. It's nice that you didn't have to get any consent in a multi-housing facility, that would be nice. Now we're wondering if that's right. This is not right for me, and in this way, with this amendment, applicants would have eliminated as much as 25% of the owners. Yeah, well, it's just about getting energy on the roofs. There is something else to know, however, that apartment buildings in the Republic of Slovenia are very different after the building, even in the form of roofs, one of them is two floors, one is four floors, one is flat roofs, one is 60 years old, one is newer. In short, it's a big difference. And even interventions, when it comes to the installation of some solar collectors on the roof, can be very different in these objects, some have good load capacity and some are not wearable and should also be affected by the construction part of the facility. Now, let's imagine, because most of the multi-housing buildings have used mansards, that's what they say are in the attic mansards of the apartments. And now we're going structurally to the top floor, yeah, because they're still in the 25% that they don't have to agree to get this easily. Now ask yourself here if that's right or if that's just cool. You've only thought about what's nice, not what's right. So I would say, such shortcuts, how to bypass as many owners as possible, I absolutely do not approve. I will not discuss the old Housing Law, I would just like to commend the ministry that there has been movement on this residential segment and that the results will soon be visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček has the following word, and Mr Leon Merjasec is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going down to the content of the law. What I have been able to understand from the examination so far is all praise to the Ministry for the real progress made in this law. But perhaps I would descend into the substantive part of this amendment. I have to say, my thinking is a little different. I don't care so much who proposed the amendment, but someone who was formerly part of the coalition is now gone. If I look at it only and only from a substantive point of view, I also cannot agree with my colleague Podkórodsk. Someone, a young family, who made all their savings, hired a loan to buy an apartment will only benefit from this solar power plant, both directly and indirectly. Directly because he will be a party to the service contract and will be an investor for the fact that he will probably pay these owners something with the top-level owners. For me personally, the roof is whatever it is for each object is just and only a cost. Is the cost so much higher if it's good, it's still a cost. As far as the indirect benefit is concerned, I see only the advantage because the level-level owners would also have the opportunity to use this electricity in part. What happens if one owner blocks the entire investment? Even now, it is possible to force in some way I will say in a saying, to force one or two floor owners in the apartment block, if the investor is the tenants. But if the investor is a third person, it wouldn't be possible anymore, and I don't think that's right. Individuals, or if we take our roads and look at the objects, we see that private people are the first ones to start with investments, not only because of the subsidies but because of the better calculation that was at the beginning of today, but because they recognize the benefits and this benefit should be equal here for all investors and I think it is right and I will personally support this amendment. For the first time because this part of the facilities is used to generate electricity and for the second time, because this also fulfils the commitments we make to ourselves for the purpose of getting to a carbon-free society as soon as possible. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The last one in this round has the word, Mr Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Messengers and Members! Renewable resources are a very important source of energy, but as my colleague Bojan Podkoršek has already said, I have my own concerns about the layout of multi-housing buildings. I'm afraid not all owners will agree to put themselves on their solar cell building. We also have written in the Constitution that property is untouchable, so such an intervention that we force someone with an amendment to agree to do so, that it also has the cost of not only benefiting them, but we simply cannot force them to do so, so I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first to receive the word, Mr Joseph Horvat, is prepared by Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Mr State Secretary, Mr Rožac. First of all, I must ask you to convey your thanks on behalf of our delegation to the ministry or team that prepared this novelty of housing law. In fact, we have a law before us, but we need to be exposed again, and I am glad that I am not the only one to have a law for which today's parliamentary path, which truly addresses the most pressing areas, will be concluded. Not all of them, it is not a comprehensive solution, it is a solution to all the open issues, but the most pressing, the area of housing policy in our country, and I am therefore confident that today it will receive decent support for this law. As far as the amendment is concerned, Article 6. It's true that when you read it, it's kind of like it, and it's also important for the proponents to give recognition here, and I believe that they wrote it in some kind of good faith, well-intentioned. But colleague Ljubo Žnidar has actually said that we need to separate what is like and what is right, what is right, and we are certainly sent here to take the right solutions. If you want, yes, in accordance with the Constitution and in fact this amendment interferes with the law, which is not open, it is a real law code and if I can share with you my own experience, the installation of the solar power plant on the roof, such or other forms, it is not just the installation of solar panels and a few cables, but optimisers, etc., it is a serious intervention. Why? Because the supplier and the one who will be on your roof, this is your own experience, set up solar panels, he will say the solar panels will say, Oops, we found that your roof is over 30 years old, so we don't give you a guarantee that after we install the solar panels, the roof will not go down. Imagine what could happen when we have what Ljubo Žnidar pointed out again, what if there are mansions. And they're all looking forward to having a solar power plant for self-sustainment and having, of course, rainwater in their apartment. So if you want to get a guarantee from those who install your solar power plant, you just have to rebuild the roof. This is a big project. 30 years ago, the roofs were a little different than they are now. What do I mean? This investment is significantly higher. And here we must respect Slovenian Constitution protected private property. We say private property is sacred. And in this context, we are united in your Group that we will not support this amendment. We are pleased, however, that today, as it is said, the parliamentary path of this apartment law, the novelty of the law, which we will extend to it absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think there's been a misunderstanding, but it's best we try to clear this up. People who want a power plant on a roof for self-sustainment can only do so for self-sustainment without this amendment. But we're talking about those who would offer to someone else to install this power plant, so we wouldn't have any costs like our colleague Žnidar tried to fill. And it's only in the case of a colleague of Horvath that's the sort of conjecture when there's always one in the house that's going to invent a flood, so with this comment, I think. So it's about improving the conditions for solar power plant upgrades when it's not just self-sustainment without additional investment. But it's a contribution to a healthy environment, no carbon company and everything. Let's try to distinguish this without pretending who's smarter now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Janja Sluga, prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u225	Thank you, fellow Rajic, for essentially clarifying what was actually wrong in all these discussions. There are two different cases where a different degree of consensus is also required at the moment. And we, the unrelated Members, find this comparable and this distinction, in our view, is unjustifiable. And now that the reasons for not supporting this amendment, which is aimed at a green agenda that we are pursuing in all areas, this country joins these green agendas, we are promoting this account while at the same time producing only 1% of electricity from renewable sources. So, what does that tell us? That tells us there's something we need to do. And the real law code in Article 67 in the fifth paragraph is right that transactions that go beyond the framework of regular management, such as the management of the whole thing and so on. So, the real law code lists transactions only in cases and not in taxis. And only cases tell what is a business that goes beyond regular management, because of course with the norm, with only the dictates of the law of all these cases cannot be covered. The housing law is lex specialis in this case. And the housing law in Article 29 speaks of transactions that go beyond the regular management framework and in paragraph 1, it speaks of 75% of the consent of the floor owners for certain transactions and 100% of the second paragraph. And the housing law already in force provides for a lower percentage of the necessary agreements for transactions that go beyond regular management, but taxively lists transactions that require 100% consent and that particular one contained in our amendment is not among them. So I ask you not to deceive yourself in this regard. And now we've heard about the whole lab here, about the types of roofs, about the slopes of the roofs, about their technical properties and so on. The talk was also about, as if we wanted the other high-level co-owners to tear down their own roof, so you discussed it, and so it all sounded and you also discussed it as if you were proposing an amendment that would allow someone to place solar cells on the roof of a block without any agreement, but it's not true. I believe that you would like to have, without any consent, an SDS flag hanging on the top of a roof, I believe, but I don't know if this roof would have the capacity to handle it. But believe me, 75% of the floor owners don't want to tear down their own roofs because of the solar cells, and with this roof, solar power plants too, because that would then happen. As colleague Rajić said, and before him, colleague Peček, it is a case where the top-level owners with these solar cells, with this solar power plant, do not have any costs, but benefit, have a service compensation, have their own electricity and ultimately have a higher value of their own real estate, if we are already in the process of doing so. Such a solar power plant may also increase the value of this property and its value in the final stage. And, of course, it's nice to talk about what's nice, what's useful. Let's talk about what's possible. What we can do to make our agendas green, to actually achieve some of the goals that we have set ourselves as a country and what we can do, to make the days of the top-level owners when they decide to do so a little easier, and to not, always and everywhere, listen to such stories, find one that is one that is a good thing, one good idea, one thing that most want, and 75% is a great majority. It is still a large majority and 75% of us talk about the possibility, with such great agreement, to be carried out for the benefit of these top-level owners and for the benefit of the whole community and the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Do you want the replica? [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Ah, then we'll have another debate. First he gets the word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u227	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Fellow Servant, I must tell you, on behalf of our Member of Parliament, that we have spoken very respectfully to this amendment that you have tabled. We've talked a lot about this, and we've talked about it with the Ministry. However, I will try to tell all of you why it is possible at the end of the decision not to support this, but the fact that this amendment was well-designed, you also have in your group a colleague of Rajić, who is an architect, so there is no doubt that it was because I initially said that we are talking about a very quality law and I have also heard from all sides that all praise goes to the work of the team at the Ministry, on this law, where today will also, of course, be the conclusion. Life, sometimes when we live in a residential house, 4 or 5, we do not always find the same opinion or when we decide to invest, sometimes we need to find a life’s consensus. Of course, when we're talking about multi-housing buildings, where there's, I don't know, 30, 40, 50 apartments, but it's a lot harder. Before I can explain that, I have to say that everything that my colleague Sukič said about energy I will sign. I'm signing everything my colleague from LMŠ Peček said I'll sign. I'm sorry I forgot my last name. Now, because I was also employed in a residential company, it happens most often that those who live on the first floor of the apartment have no interest in building or multi-family building where they did not build an elevator. It's purely life. Even if I had lived there, of course, the least concern would have been devoted to it. Of course, many more worry about those who live do not know in the fourth, fifth, sixth, or seventh floors and of course are discussing how to find a common language. I have to tell you, it takes years sometimes. Many times it does not even reach the desired goal, but when we talk about lifts in this multi-housing facility, it is an integral part of a multi-housing facility that somehow also touches every apartment mostly when people are older, as long as young people are not struggling to climb the stairs, but when they are older, it is an increasing problem and there is a problem when there are people on the first floor who are a little younger who do not feel the need of older people who are on the sixth or seventh floor. But when we talk about the roof and, of course, when I touch this amendment, I repeat once again what Mr. Peček said and colleague Sukič everything, but when we step into the roof now, if, like Mr. Jože, and Mr. Ljubo said, if we touch the older roof, it may be more difficult, but it makes sense to do this when a block or more of the apartment building, the owners decide on the new roof and, in parallel, also find someone, of course, the investor, most often, to help them rebuild the roof and instead install it on a multi-housing facility on their facility, on their property also the solar power plant and, of course, then we get to green energy. [[Incomprehensible]] However, it is in our parliamentary group when we discussed this amendment that we support all of this, that we have as many roofs covered as possible, of course, that there is a new roof up there, that there is also a solar power plant up there, but let it be 100% consent. Because I used to say that we have someone at the elevator on the first floor who doesn't feel the need for an elevator, but it can happen theoretically to us that in the last place we have even a mansard of people who may not agree to it, but those who are on the first floor will vote that they will get a solar power plant. We are in favour of the solar power plant on this multi-housing facility, but let it be 100% consent in this case. This is what took precedence in our parliamentary group, that we may have decided not to support it until your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u228	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Reploco's got Mr. Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I very much respect the opinion of my colleague Bojan Podobrška and there are some inaccuracies that I wish to stress. The difference is when we go with an example of a lift that they don't objectively need until they're paralyzed on the first floor and the total electricity that everybody gets, free of charge, so we can't do it here. In some buildings, for example, they even built an elevator and built it on the first floor without a way out. But what you might try to do from your profession to help your colleague Podkrodišek is to say this entanglement with an argument that you cannot make the roof because the old burden is too heavy with these solar panels they are quite easy, are easy and other, are overheated so that you do not keep snow. You may not know, however, that the weight of the roof is going to be on the roof even if it snows, because it will go so that it is very difficult to confuse it with such an argument in this case. Last but not least, and what's very good is that the buildings are being updated. Now, if you replace a roof with a dirty roof with a roof, a black roof, a uniform color, a tall, glossy material and perhaps a part of the facade, a southern facade certainly, the western, the east, too, then we are in the process of improving the appearance, but above all the weight I would like to stress that you could not hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Interested in the debate, I'm asking if there's anyone else besides Mr. Žnidar? If not, then Mr. Ljubo Žnidar you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Look, you're going to have a hard time convincing me with your discussions, and I'm going to give you three types of investment in particular. Now the first case is when the housing community in a multi-housing facility decides to go, that is to say to invest. It's not a dilemma, they've decided, short and cost and revenue, that's their thing, that's one option. The second option is to say, in a proverbial manner, that an external, foreign investor who invests with his own resources, with all of them, enters into a contractual service, briefly settles the matter. And then there's the third option where an investor with his own resources comes under disguise, because today I also heard from your debate, yes, because you don't have to invest anything, we will do everything. And it concludes with only 75% as much as it has the consent, it concludes the contractual service, and it would also say the questionability of the quality of the renewal of the deck if these solar panels are to be installed or any other type of these renewable sources. In short, we have three different cases here. And why now, I would say more and more today are such investors looking for a place to put their business, where they would put solar power plants, which are huge today, with their own money will come. And now you are laying the groundwork for him to avoid 25% of the owners with some obligations. He won't have to get the consent of 25% to the owners. That's supposed to make his business easier. I would also say an investment if I had money today, and I would go, and I would say multi-inhabitants at all sunny ones, especially the biggest ones I'd put up a solar power plant, and 25% of the owners we'd cut aside to give their consent. That was said a little so-called preparation for unfair treatment of owners. That's the basis, I'd say that's the legal basis for an unfair attitude towards these 25% owners you want to get around here. That's the legal basis for how to get around them. They're the owners. And you want to cut them out here now. If the investor has a fair purpose, he should conclude a contractual service with all but not only 75 %. Then that part of the owners would, of course, make fun of those who did not give consent as to how disadvantaged and so on. This is the basis for speculation, and you've prepared it. I do not agree here with my colleague Podródsk, who said that this would have said the amendment was well-intentioned. This isn't good for me because you want to play 25% of the owners, it's not well-meaning. You want to get around them because they don't need their consent. It's not good for me if you want to play somebody.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u233	The replica has Mrs. Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u234	We need to clear this up because this is what you've been making up, Comrade Žnidar, what you've been saying. It's a pure fiction. It is necessary to distinguish between consent and then the conclusion of a service contract, which, of course, must be concluded with all the top-level owners. That's right. Read the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u235	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, allow the Ambassador to discuss in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u236	So when we talk about the degree of consensus, we talk about 75% of the consensus. When we establish a service, however, it is always necessary, in every case and everywhere, to conclude it with all the top-level owners, with all the contracts, with all the same conditions, and everyone has the same benefits from this solar power plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukič also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u238	Yeah, maybe I'd like to replicate. See, as the fellow Servant has explained to you well, I will only tell you why you always see this, I think before we explained it nicely, it is enough that one person from some strange principle complicates in a multi-accommodation building and then this building despite the fact that everyone else wanted some progress and also benefited from these renewable energy sources, including cheaper electricity. It's much cheaper electricity, because I've seen this thing live, but no, one person makes it difficult because it's just fly. And now you're going to be, and you're always showing up like you want to play some people. Yeah no, maybe one person plays all the other people, maybe turn the optics a little bit, so you'll understand that we'll never make any progress in this way, because it's one enough to block this progress. And that's not right. It is therefore necessary to find a 75 % solution that is not easy to achieve. If it's a good thing, you'll get it if it's bad. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Your time's up. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word? If not, we're closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DETERMINATION OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE COST LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Maja Hostik Kališek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u240	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to briefly present the main issues of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly on Treatment and Adoption on a regular basis. The main objective of the amendment is to fulfil the obligation to comply with the rules of the European Union, a directive providing for the inclusion of the Italian Municipality of Campione di Italy and the Italian waters of the Lugani Lake in the European Union and to apply to the territorial application of the general rules on excise duties applicable in the territory of the Union and a directive providing for the exemption of VAT and excise duties for defence efforts within the European Union with a view to equalising the exemption as they apply to defence efforts under NATO. In the field of energy taxation, it is proposed to reduce the consumption of natural gas for vehicles to EUR 0 by the end of 2025 in the coming period. The reduction of excise duty will allow more competitive prices of natural gas for compressed and liquefied natural gas in Slovenia according to prices and tax levels in neighbouring countries. In this way, demand is promoted in Slovenia and thus the preservation of natural gas sales sites for propulsion and the achievement of Slovenia's commitments after the use of alternative fuels in transport, which imposes environmental and transport legislation on the Union. In the field of tobacco taxation, the amendment proposes the obligation to pay excise duty for all coatings, for electronic cigarettes, including nicotine-free cigarettes. The amount of fill-in duty with nicotine remains unchanged at 0.18 euros per millilitre. For nicotine-free coatings, the introduction of a excise duty of 0.08 euros per millilitre is proposed. The taxation of all coatings for electronic cigarettes will increase the tax burden and, consequently, the retail selling price and thus reduce the accessibility of these products, which is also the objective of the proposal. The financial effects of the introduction of excise duty on nicotine coatings will be negligible and a positive public health impact is expected, mainly due to the accessibility of young people. These are more sensitive to price changes, especially very young ones. The amendment of the law proposes the abolition of the lodging of claims in paper form for applications for reimbursement of excise duty. The annual financial management receives and treats more than 60 thousand applications for reimbursement of paid excise duty. The proposal will apply from 1 January 2022 to persons engaged in an activity the obligation to submit an application electronically through the information system of the tax authority. The proposal for a novelty shall be coordinated with energy legislation in the field of regulation concerning the quantity of electricity produced in a self-sustainment plant from renewable energy sources. The proposed law reduces the revenue of the state budget for excise duties of EUR 0.4 million per year, based on the reduction of the excise duty on natural gas for motor vehicles. Dear Members and Members! In line with everything I have said, I propose that the proposal be supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Robert Polnar, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 34th meeting, on 6 May this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the excise law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC Members of Parliament, namely Article 6 of the bill. In its introduction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the main objective of the proposal is to bring the law into line with the rules of the European Union, in particular those governing the common system of value added tax and the general tax regime relating to defence efforts within the European Union. The bill also sets out excise duties on all types of liquids for electronic cigarettes and the reduction of excise duty on natural gas used for driving vehicles. The bill would also reduce the accessibility of certain products, which would have positive effects mainly on the health of young people. Applications for reimbursement of excise duty in electronic form are also envisaged. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that the comments were taken into account in the proposed amendments and, in the light of clarity, highlighted the provision of Article 13 and the explanation of this Article. The debate was not a long one, but opposed the provisions of the bill relating to the regulation of excise duties on defence efforts within the European Union. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC as new Article 20a and Article 21 of the bill and adopted them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word again, Mr Robert Polnar. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u244	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Now, in practice, we have demonstrated how we respect prevention and it would be good to accept it a little wider. Members of Parliament, Members, excise duties are the third most important tax revenue of the state budget for value added taxes and income. In 2019, excise revenue was EUR 1 billion and EUR 543 million. In this respect, it is particularly clear that, for example, in 2010, there were billions and 415 million euros of such revenue and, until 2019, the largest revenues were reached in 2017, one billion and 558 million. Thus, in the eleven fiscal years, excise revenue, at the annual level, was moving within an interval of only €170 million, and it is appropriate to ask whether the Slovenian State, with this tax type, is achieving its optimum level in providing resources for its own budget, or whether such revenues can be increased. The financial consequences of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law are not worth mentioning. They are estimated at about half a million euros, with a negative omen. The proposal for a law concerns in particular compliance with the rules of the European Union. It is a tax exemption for the supply of goods or the provision of services to the armed forces of any Member State of the North Atlantic Union participating in joint defence outside its own country. The Directive already provides for the exemption of excise duty for the supply of excise goods purchased for the purposes of the armed forces of other Member States of the NATO Union or their associated civilian personnel or for the supply of their cafeterias or canteens where these forces participate in the provision of common defence. The Directive aligns or provides for an equivalent treatment of defence efforts, within the framework of the European Union and under the auspices of NATO in the field of value added tax and excise duty, by equating the exemption from value added tax and defence effort excise duty within the framework of both organisations. The bill also lays down excise duties for all kinds of liquids for electronic cigarettes. The use of these alone is increasing, so it is right to settle these matters. The proposal also provides for a more favourable tax treatment of natural gas for motor vehicles, as well as provisions on the form of applications for reimbursement of excise duty in electronic form. We welcome the proposal for legislation in the Desus Group, in particular from the point of view of reducing the affordability of certain products. This could have positive effects on public health and in terms of environmental protection it is important to apply more favourable tax treatment of natural gas to drive vehicles. Provisions are also proposed to further simplify taxation in specific transactions and to limit the possibility of abuse and avoid excise duty. The efforts to increasingly replace the so-called paper business with electronic forms are supported, but we are reserved for the absolute elimination of the application in paper form, because we believe that there must always be an alternative. Excise revenues are structured from revenues from mineral oils, gas and electricity covering 65 %, from alcohol and alcoholic beverages of 8 % and from tobacco products of 27 % of total excise revenue. The country is in a difficult public financial situation, and the consequences of the epidemic are mitigated, and it is therefore really necessary to study whether there are any excise rates at the level that prevents raising the curves of tax revenue collected or not. This will be of paramount importance for the future management of budgetary revenue and expenditure. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The next Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u246	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! To begin with, in the Slovenian National Party, we support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise. The transposition and harmonisation of the law with the Directive of the European Union is basically a good solution. In the Slovenian National Party, we also welcome digitisation and electronic commerce in the field of excise duties. The fact that applicants will be able to submit applications in electronic form and not paper form after the new has been a time to settle. The submission of applications in paper form should have been long overdue. The law thus promotes the use of electronic commerce as it will help to achieve long-term productivity in this area. The area of electronic cigarettes will also be well regulated by the transposition of the directive. Global electronic cigarette sales have grown in the last 10 years from $500 million per year to over $10 billion, of course. This means that, of course, it is necessary to regulate this area at European level as well. With the rapid growth of sales and the use of electronic cigarettes, excise duties were avoided with different forms of manipulation in the sale itself. The sale of charges for electronic cigarettes separate from nicotine has led not only to the abuse of the tax system but also to the risk of product safety itself. In addition, we have a lot of health and safety concerns in electronic cigarettes, and we advocate strong regulation in this area. We also strongly support the reduction of the excise duty on natural gas to drive vehicles. Natural gas vehicles have an almost 20% lower share of carbon dioxide emissions and are also more economical. We are, of course, extremely critical in the Slovenian National Party to equalize the exemption from excise duty for defence efforts in the NATO Union. The wishes of the European Union as an American satellite are, of course, the spread of the agenda of NATO or of the United States of America, and this is of no benefit to anyone but the Americans, certainly not to us Slovenians. Any encouragement to do so in the field of excise duties in a wider region than history has taught us will only bring destabilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Amendments to the Excise Act, which is still ahead of us today, do not bring about systemic changes, as these are mainly changes relating to compliance with the European Directive. Nevertheless, the law makes some other significant changes. I'll only point out some. The determination of excise duties for all types of liquids for electronic cigarettes irrespective of the personality of nicotine. Currently, only fillings containing nicotine are taxed, leading to abuse and avoidance of excise duties. In order to sell nicotine-free liquids, which were untaxed and separated liquids with nicotine, users made their own mix, not only in terms of avoiding excise duties but also in terms of customer safety. The excise duty on natural gas shall be reduced to drive vehicles for both liquefied natural gas and compressed natural gas, mainly used for the propulsion of buses. Additional simplifications are proposed to encourage the submission of applications for reimbursement of excise duties in electronic and no longer paper forms, which we support absolutely. The payment of excise duty for the use of ethyl alcohol shall be exempt but only for the purposes of the production process where the final product does not contain alcohol. This is just a few key and extremely important changes, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we assess that all these changes are, of course, good and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Pecek is next. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u250	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary of State! The excise duties set out in the draft law that we are considering today represent as much as 13.6% of the revenue of the state budget for 2021. If I say otherwise, this means €1.462 billion of which 19.11 million of excise revenue is planned for energy and electricity, 117 million excise duties on alcohol and alcohol and 434 million on tobacco products. We must mention, however, that last autumn the Government decided to fully liberalise the prices of all oil derivatives. Today we can look back and make an assessment of this government move. If we make only a comparison of prices with the situation at the transition from 2020 to 2021, today 95 octane gasoline is more expensive by close to 18% and diesel by around 10%. We know that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has already tried to liberalise prices within the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, but they resisted the coalition's attempt at that time. The argument in favour of liberalisation has always been the same, since state price regulation limits competition and impedes the entry of tenderers into the Slovenian market. Of course, the situation is different. In Slovenia we actually have an oligopol, two large companies Petrol and OMV, which control almost 90% of the petrol services. However, the number of locations for new suppliers is very limited, but it is obvious that the current ruling set estimated that at the time of the epidemic it could take such a step towards the liberalisation of the oil derivatives market and the result is, as we can see, a cheaper citizen's wallet and a thicker duopol's owner's wallet. The government controls most of the gas stations together, I mean Petrol and OMV. The fact is that the novel of the Law on excise duty, which is ahead of us, does not contain any major cuts in the existing state. In particular, it is in line with the Directives which have been in force since its entry into force, it lays down excise duties on all types of liquids for electronic cigarettes, as exclusive liquids with nicotine have been taxed under the current regime, leading to abuse and avoidance of excise duties. In addition, the amendment proposes the abolition of excise duty payments during the transitional period until the end of 2025 for natural gas used for driving vehicles. This measure in the LMŠ Group welcomes the fact that liquefied natural gas vehicles have between 10 and 20 % less carbon dioxide emissions than diesel vehicles and significantly less dust particulate emissions. We also agree with the transition to a situation in which beneficiaries apply for reimbursement of excise duty in electronic form, but at the same time it does not seem reasonable for us to maintain the possibility of filing claims for reimbursement of excise duty in paper form for at least a certain period of time. In summary, the proposed novel has quite a few good solutions and we will not oppose it in the LMŠ Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Although the Government's amendment and the supplementation of the Treasury Act are not part of the tax package prepared by the Government, which threatens to significantly reduce the revenue of the State budget by means of tax gifts for the wealthy, and thus the ability of the State to act when necessary. In the case of this proposal, the law is fortunately only for the transposition of the completed European directive into the Slovenian legal order. The amendment of the law is thus necessary primarily for the inclusion of certain parts of the Italian territory and in the European customs and tax system, since the rules in this area must be harmonised at the level of the European Union as a whole. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition to this transposition of the directive, the Government has included several other solutions in the draft law. Among them, it is particularly important to highlight adjustments in the field of charger taxation for electronic cigarettes, where tax avoidance has occurred in recent years due to the use of customised charges. We consider this change to be meaningful in view of the effective linkage between tax rules and those in the field of restricting the use of tobacco products. The bill also offers the possibility of electronic lodging of excise claims, which certainly means simplifying and expediting business for taxpayers. The changes that the general public will also feel are mainly covered by Article 17 of the proposed law, which slightly alters the basis for calculating the excise duty on electricity. By 2025, however, natural gas as a fuel for vehicles will be exempt from excise duty in order to encourage the use of this for an environment of less burdensome energy. Despite the fact that the bill is mainly about non-problem solutions, it is important to note the time and circumstances in which we adopt this law. For without any changes to the excise legislation, the government has already made major changes whose consequences are unfortunately unfavourable for people who pay a significantly higher price of fuel and the poor revenues of the state budget, as its annual revenue from excise duties on energy and fuel, according to Furs, has decreased by as much as 20% and by more than 200 million euros. When this government interferes with the tax system, this usually brings more expensive lives for people, lower budget revenues and tax gifts for the wealthy and first-class. Therefore, further attention and caution is still needed in assessing its plans, as the Government's proposal on excise duty does not, at least this time, bring such harmful solutions; we will not oppose it in the SD Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Good evening. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of amendments to the Law on excise duties. At first glance, most of the content of the law is not disputed. Moreover, the text of the proposal contains even some meaningful provisions, but within 15 months the authorities of John Janša learned to read laws that come from the title of the Government in full. We note that, as a multitude of its predecessors, this law also carries a very harmful substance under the shade of sweet measures, as it shows the true colors, real priorities of the current authorities, the obsession with security, the resort to repression and the craving for military conflicts. Let's go in one order. While the bill contains some, as we say, meaningful provisions, such as the new regime for the taxation of electronic cigarettes, which we support in Levica. And that's a dance. The provisions introducing tax exemptions for the arms industry are problematic. The law also introduces the exemption from excise duty on excise goods purchased for the purposes of the military when it participates in defence efforts to carry out the activities of the European Union under the common security and defence policy of the European Union and the NATO Pact. While each ordinary citizen must contribute a part of the excise duty when buying petrol to drive his personal vehicle into the state treasury, while those with the lowest income contribute a significantly higher share of their income than the rich, the arms will be able to fill the tanks that will participate in the imperialist operations, then the Pact will be released from its contribution to the state treasury. Arms and foreign armies are welcome in Slovenia, but not obliged to contribute to the well-being of its inhabitants and residents, in its health and educational system, infrastructure, etc. Tax exemptions for the arms industry are a symptom of the completely flawed policies of the government of Janez Janša, both in military and in the field of taxes. The government first did what it could to prevent a referendum on new arms deals and force the adoption of a law that will allow it to use €780 million of public money for completely unnecessary weapons for the next six years. On the other hand, it has drawn up a tax reform that will, at the expense of the richest in the state budget and other public cash registers, drill a hole of billions of euros. By introducing tax exemptions for the arms industry, it merely continues its failed policy to confirm that it has completely lost its compass. At a time when the social and health crisis needs to be addressed urgently, the epidemic must be tackled by a diversified educational system, the provision of adjustment capacity in the homes of older citizens, and the introduction of tax breaks for the acquisition of military and other equipment that is not purchased for the purpose of defence of the state, because it is not threatened, but rather aimed at strengthening the occupation appetites of foreign military superpowers. In Levica, which swears in its core to peace and development and which puts on the list its priorities care for the health and well-being of all, including the weakest, and which militarisation of society and calls to war rejects the changes of the excise law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! Excise is an indirect tax on the sale or use of goods such as alcohol, tobacco and energy. The rules of the European Union explain which products are subject to excise duty and how excise duty is applied to them. On 1 May 2004, Slovenia became part of the European Union and it is perfectly normal that the European order, more precisely the directive of the European Council and Parliament, must be internalised or implemented in our domestic legal order. European Union law also lays down the minimum rates of excise duty applicable, although each Member State of the European Union may set higher rates. The tax to be paid is normally determined by the quantity of goods to be measured by measuring units such as kilograms, hectolitres or alcohol levels. When do we have to pay the excise? It is necessary to distinguish between when the product becomes the subject of excise duty and when excise duty is to be paid. Most excise goods become excise duties as soon as they are manufactured or imported into the European Union. This excise duty may be deferred and therefore no payment shall be made until the product is released for consumption. Where excise goods are destroyed or lost for unforeseen reasons or natural disasters before they are released for excise duty consumption, no payment shall be made. So much for the introduction and I also stress that excise duty is an important source of budgetary revenue. What are the objectives of the bill on excise duty? The aim of the proposal is to harmonise the excise law with the rules of the European Union. Here I would like to point out only one, although it is all four directives, but the key is the 2008 directive, number 118, which regulates excise duties in the field of the European Union. The bill is without prejudice to the basic principles of the applicable excise law, so the fear is already completely exaggerated. As it is said, the proposal, in view of the change in the situation of the Italian municipality Campione d Italia and the Italian waters of the Logan Lake in relation to the Union and the related amendments to Directive 118, which I have already mentioned, amends the definition of territories which, after a new part of the customs union, are placed within the territorial application of Directive 118. So, the most important directives. The proposal transposes the 2019 Directive on defence efforts within the Union into the Slovenian legal order. The exemption from excise duty shall be added for products purchased for the purposes of the armed forces when they participate in the Union's defence efforts under the common security and defence policy. So, once again, there will be no unnecessary fears when they are involved in the Union's defence efforts. As it is said, on 1 May we joined the EU Alliance, in a European relationship based on the results of the 2003 referendum, and recall that in 2016 we adopted the European Union's Global Strategy on the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and we also adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, because it represents our membership in the EU, our fundamental political and security framework and our membership in the NATO Union, which represents our fundamental security framework. As it is said, the Law on Excavities brings a number of good solutions. This is not a major change in excise policy in the Republic of Slovenia, and this novelty of the Law on excise duty will receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u258	Dear fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government! We have a decision to make on the Proposal for a Bill on Excise. Its main objective is to respond to the amendment of the European Union directive on the general excise regime. The central purpose of this Directive is to establish better common European rules on taxation, production, storage, movement and control of excise goods in the European Union. In this way, at the level of the whole Union, certain shortcomings of the system are addressed, while reducing barriers to business in the common market and limiting the possibility of avoiding excise duties. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are inclined to adopt this law because we believe that excise legislation must regularly adapt to the extremely rapid dynamics of market introduction of new substances and products that have a certain impact on human health and the environment. We believe that only up-to-date excise legislation is able to respond to all these risks in an integrated manner and to take care of the balance between the use of substances with such impacts. We also find it very reasonable and justifiable to implement the principles of the European directives, which aim at greater unity, flexibility and regulation of the business environment within the EU borders. This bill also reduces excise duties on liquefied natural gas and on compressed natural gas, which are primarily used to drive heavy goods vehicles. This intention to reduce excise duty is understood as another one, in a number of incentives for the use of alternative fuels and a new step in the Government's efforts to develop sustainable mobility in our country. Another important novelty of this novel, which brings important administrative simplification. A while ago, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia upgraded the information system, which provides new electronic services in the field of excise duties. Thus, beneficiaries may apply for reimbursement of excise duty in electronic form and not only in paper as has been the case so far. Since beneficiaries of excise-related activities are already carrying out tax and administrative procedures electronically, it is more than reasonable that they will also make requests for reimbursement of excise duty by electronic means. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the Slovenian economy welcomes the digitisation of any administrative process, as companies save time and can devote it to the implementation of their core activity, thus creating added value. On the basis of all of this, we will support the proposal of this Law on Excise in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will be presented as the last position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u260	Your Honor! The new law is mainly based on the transposition of the new European directives on excise duties into the national legal order. At the same time, one contains new legal solutions that this Government considers necessary in the field of excise duties. Since the representatives of the proposer have already said all the legal solutions, allow me to focus on those that we consider most important in the party of the SAB social liberals. In accordance with European Directives, a gradually lower excise duty on natural gas is being applied to drive vehicles. Due to the gradual reduction of excise duty from 2025 onwards, there will be no more. The natural gas used to drive vehicles is managed to drive heavy-duty trucks on buses to this end of excise duty, as proposed by Europe, we understand ourselves as an incentive for the use of alternative vehicles in transport with a clear objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. We are aware that a mere reduction in our green Slovenia's excise duty will not prevent emissions generated by transport. For once in the previous Government, we have made it possible for pensioners and certain other categories to have free cross-border passenger transport. We still insist that the most vulnerable categories are also provided with free urban passenger transport. In the SAB as one of the urgent long-term steps that would make a significant contribution to environmental protection, modernised free public passenger transport is recognised for all citizens and citizens. The market for electronic cigarettes and their fillings is growing more and more. So far, no excise duty has been required if cigarette fillings did not contain tobacco or nicotine. Consumers added nicotine to such fillings and there was a avoidance of excise duty payments. After the implementation of the law, we will also fill the excise duty-free nicotine bill as an appropriate price signal, which will reduce the accessibility of these products and have a positive impact on the health of young people in particular. We certainly welcome all the solutions resulting from the directives and limiting the abuse and avoidance of excise duties. Among solutions not bound by the directive, we stress the obligation to make requests for reimbursement of excise duties by electronic means. Electronic submission of applications certainly facilitates the operation of certain business operators, but is not suitable for all. By no means will this system be suitable for owners of agricultural and forestry land. In most cases it is an older population which, apart from lack of specific knowledge at their locations, do not even have coverage with an internet signal. In the SAB, we regret that the Government did not listen to this category and did not allow them to invest in paper form, as it creates an unnecessary financial and administrative burden on them in the obligation to invest electronically. This is also why the novelty of marriage cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, which is a half hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The motion for a decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration and there was no time for discussion in relation to this item of the agenda, and we will therefore decide on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly within half an hour of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and the 75th extraordinary meeting of the Committee, which will be resumed by vote at 9.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 20.59.) (The sitting resumed at 21.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u262	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The national assembly shall vote in accordance with the following order: 21, 12, 10 and 16 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda – this is by addressing the motion for an indictment by the President of the Government of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 190 relating to the 192nd Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will decide on a proposal for a decision to charge the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of Slovenia and the law. That proposal for a decision received on 5 May 2021 and published on the websites of the National Assembly is prepared on the basis of a motion for an indictment by the 39 Members and Members of the Group of Members with the first signed Branet Golubović of 2 April 2021 and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 5 May 2021. The proposal for a decision contains a description of the alleged violation of the Constitution and of the violation of the law of the evidence of manifest infringements and a statement of the authorised representative of the National Assembly representing the accusation before the Constitutional Court. I would point out, however, that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 concerning Article 66 of the Constitutional Court Act, the majority of all members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that decision, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. Explanation, did you raise your hand? Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In her own name, colleague Bevk, then colleague Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u263	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A well-respected choir. Of course, we are at odds with the country and with it we blame ourselves. At the time of the gradual recovery of society and economic growth following the great economic and financial crisis and after several mandates of the governments that all ended prematurely, there was a turbulent period which, in early 2020, marked the incomprehensible withdrawal of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, which I deeply regret today and the appearance of the new government of Janez Janša. All of this was shaken by the severe health and social crisis caused by the Coronavirus epidemic. Surely our Sharčev government would have done as well, or if you wanted to be unsuccessful in dealing with the coronary epidemic as Janševa Vlada. Today we stand before the decision on how to proceed. I am sorry that the Government has also taken advantage of the epidemic for some selfish party interests that have nothing in common with the health crisis and the coronary disease. Let me mention just not fulfilling the legal obligations to finance the Slovenian Press Agency, which played a decisive role in informing the domestic and international public about the JLA aggression during the independent war. Without the resignation of the President of the Government at the end of January 2020, there would be no such constitutional accusation. It is correct, however, that today, in the opposition, we have warned of the possible unconstitutional conduct of this government. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u265	Thank you very much for all this inflation of today's arguments, which are not, I will also give my opinion. Attacks, discredits of journalists, prosecutors, intellectuals, culturers, NGOs, all who don't follow the SDS model and what I get What's going on? [[…]] Is something wrong? The clock's not running. [[…]] Thank you so much for saying that. As it is said, after today's inflation of arguments that are not, I will give my arguments. The attacks, the discredits of journalists, prosecutors, intellectuals, culturers, NGOs, all who do not act on the SDS model and what is done on Twitter, for example, because the proposed prosecutor Janez Janša personally does not like, would now be the government's will to step up the process of appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, who is legally determined and fully clear. FOR more than six months, they have been running out of money that they should have received under a special law. It is the only national press agency that performs public service, like Slovenian Railways and the Post of Slovenia, which, like STA, work in part on the market. The State is therefore obliged to provide money for the operation of its public service. The current Act on STA was already adopted in 2011 and no one in the last nine years has questioned the business relationship between the State and the State, which provides around 60% of the revenue. Not even the other Yanshe government. Now, the President of the Government is getting a little more excited about the above-mentioned law and even more so, the Special PKP 7 has created an additional legal basis for the payment of the STA’s compensation for the performance of its public service, and the existence of employees and their families is being exclarated. Why? Since they want to tame the world according to their measure, they discipline it, as well as all other institutions, individuals, even if they pass the laws and even if they pass the Constitution. And after all, we have a Prime Minister of the Government who is not doing his job as he should and thereby endangers our lives. Less anti-Korona vaccine than in Slovenia where 56 doses were delivered per 100 inhabitants only arrived in Latvia, Bulgaria and Croatia, taking into account the population of the population. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the procedure for the motion for an indictment is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on amendments and additions to the housing law in the context of the regular procedure. Can I have some quiet, please? We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 5. 2021. we decide on the amendment of Article 6 by the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the SD Group of Members. Vote explanation, colleague Bane Rajić. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u267	On behalf of the House of Representatives, yes. We have proposed an amendment to the Housing Law in the direction of modern trends in housing architecture. It is a matter of 75 % of the tenants' consent to the roofs and facades of multi-housing buildings. Unfortunately, it is predicted that this will not be accepted, but right here is something that we are very much moving away from what modern trends dictate. Slovenia has only 1% of the total electricity it generates from sources such as solar energy and by 2030 we have to have or have set ourselves a 27% target. Unfortunately, this road is very long and I'm afraid it's impossible. To this end, we have also put forward this amendment, which would greatly facilitate and, in fact, prevent all those who like to plant in multi-housing buildings from being annulled in some way and that the respect of the vast majority of people would then produce fruits for a much better energy supply. That's why we proposed this amendment. If it is not supported by colleagues from coalition parties, we will not fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-26-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As in the second reading of the amendment to the amended draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty in the framework of the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 7. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 75th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
