ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 66th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 97th meeting. 3. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Monika Gregorčič until 2 p.m., Tadeja Šuštar until 2 p.m., Mag. Dušan Verbich, Gregor Židan, mag. Bojana Mursic by 5 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček by 1:00 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko by 2 p.m., Marijan Pojbič, Lidija Ivanuša and Nada Brinovšek by 2 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation at a meeting outside the Assembly was announced by Mr Maša Kociper and Mr Željko Cigler using a remote-session application in the form of a videoconference. I invited the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of John Cigler King and other government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is to discuss the work and responsibility of the Minister for Work, Society, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Brickler the King. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 37 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Jerci Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u2	Your Honor! 202 thousand 572 infected and 4 000 224 dead - this is data by 16 March this year. Source: National Institute of Public Health. You can rotate and try to soften, but in vain; the numbers are alarming, even the ones in the homes for the elderly. Twelve thousand 155 infected providers, 2,000 58 of them lost their battle with the virus. In statistics on this dry quote, it seems as if we are losing the feeling that for each of the numbers is a person and behind him is a life story, relatives, pain. In the air, the question remains, how many minutes, hours, how many priceless moments were taken by premature death. How many deaths could have been prevented if the reactions were different, timely, careful, loving, and correct. In today’s interpretation of the minister, who is also responsible for the area of home for the elderly, at the number of 2,000 58 dead caregivers, the question arises how many would still be alive today if the minister simply worked if he had taken any action, if he had heard warnings - and these were indeed great - if he had taken into account the conclusions of the section. How much suffering could be prevented if the Minister performed his duties in accordance with a constitutional oath, i.e. according to his conscience and conscience; knowing that the homes and protection of the most vulnerable are his first task at the time of the epidemic. The text of the interpretation that we have tabled clearly substantiates the Minister's responsibility - both objectively and subjectively. Numbers, dates and facts, all presented without any extra text. You've confirmed your responsibility, Minister, perhaps unconsciously, but you've confirmed it yourself. Your response to the interpolation does not contain arguments that would reject the above facts and observations; quite the contrary. On the 21 pages you offer as an answer, you did not deny, reject or reject any of the obvious. You turn to promises and lists of what you will do. You have written this rather clumsy, unfortunate approximation of the propaganda material, which you probably do not believe in in recent months; at the same time, you go to topics that we do not read to you. In short, you're diverting attention from the point of view, in fact, running away, running away from responsibility. After a year of operation of this government, it is clear that no one in this government team understands the concept of taking responsibility. Subjectively, the Minister shall be politically responsible for certain actions or events if, during his conduct or omission and the result thereof, there is a direct causal link or if he is responsible for the occurrence of an effect, which means that he was not forced from the outside into such an act or omission, but at least was aware of the possibility of having a harmful effect. However, objectively, the Minister is politically responsible for any conduct or the consequences of such conduct on the part of those directly superior to him. When it comes to not preparing home for the expected second wave of the epidemic, your responsibility, respected minister, is clear – both objective and subjective. You didn't act, you abandoned a lot of behavior, you were sloppy, you were doing your job unwittingly. Two thousand 58 dead in homes is just a consequence. Let's go back to spring 2020. At the end of the first wave of the epidemic, we were horrified to find that the government in the homes had lost its battle with the virus or that it was the providers who were the biggest victims. You knew all the delusions and problems of the first wave, you knew all the warnings of the profession, there were calls to prepare the homes urgently for the possible but then very sad and expected second wave. In this Chamber, Madam Minister, on May 25, I asked you whether you understood the lesson of the spring wave, whether you had prepared appropriate scenarios, because repetitions of the tragic balance did not want – not me, not the people, not the relatives and not you, I suppose. I asked you how you would prevent the spread of the virus in the homes and consequently the possible fatalities. You replied nothing substantively to review the success of all measures and good practices, prepare a plan to control covido-19 infections with a possible second wave, and protocols and guidelines to form a working group. In short, it's empty. I repeat, all of you, from the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia and the Association of Silver Nite to Home Leaderships, have been reminded of the unsustainable state and urgency of action. I know that today you will refer to the inherited situation in your homes and blame or responsibility on previous governments. I know you're going to say that there wasn't much to be done in a short time, and I know that they're going to dominate excuses instead of self-reflection. Let me put it this way, maybe with this political manipulation that you're going to run into, you can at least try to clean up your responsibilities if there weren't three eloquent facts. For the first time, that you have been repeatedly alerted to an unsustainable state, you have not reacted. The second time you were aware, at least so I hope, of the situation. And for the third time, that you have kept your mouth shut in all things, or that you have reached for beauty and words, as they are - we are doing our best, we are going to do everything, we understand the situation. Striving and understanding are not enough, not in life. June 1st is the cut-off date, from today's perspective only more ironic and sad. It's not just the flight date, it's the beginning of a government summer sleep. Non-preparation, non-action or late action, ignorance and simultaneous beautification of preparation, examination of alternative options, sending inconvenient directions to homes, all of this, Minister, is a reflection of negligence, is an unscrupulous job at work, is an unscrupulous act. It's a bride. Do you hear those words — conscience? And all of this is a waiver of duty, which, after all the warnings and shouts after action, should be recognized as their duty and responsibility and carried out in the summer. First of all, to continue, I would like to draw your attention to your statement, which could be a model example of governmental arrogance, negligence, ignorance of the situation. Maybe even carelessness. I aim, of course, at your words, spoken on 28 September, "that the measures imposed in the Protocol, after the experience of the first wave of the epidemic, are enough to successfully control the spread of the virus in the homes for the elderly". Moreover, “there will be no new measures for the time being”. I repeat, the first-wave measures are enough, there will be no new measures for now. Minister Cigler King, 28th of September. Let's take a look at some examples. In early July, you were reminded again in the Community of social institutions, as in April, that in most homes the sick or the infected simply cannot be isolated. They can't. And you, Minister, have continued to insist that homes set up separate zones, even though you knew they didn't have the option and they didn't have the money. You deliberately insisted on the impossible, while studying with the Minister of Health in peace. Studying additional solutions that would be best for residents. You've talked a lot; you've hardly done anything if you've done anything. Then, at the end of July, it was decided that even an expert group had accepted homes that could not organise red zones. It has provided you with assistance to your homes in providing external capacity. And you, Minister, nothing. In the meantime, you said that there would be no new measures so far. Probably continued to study and search for additional solutions and, look out, only at the end of October only partially found them. At the end of October, when you provided money in the PKP5 to reimburse the costs of renting external capacity. At the end of October or more than three months later, and thus, the distinguished minister, is more than three months late. What, Mr Minister, is different from responsibility – objective and subjective. And, Minister, in these three months, according to NIJN 64 providers died and 807 were infected. Let's keep looking. On 27 September, the expert group adopted a decision to introduce mandatory parallel tests for all employees for the protection of the elderly in their homes, i.e. for fourteen days. A day later, you, Mr Minister, have estimated that no new measures will be taken, even though the virus has already invaded two thirds of the home. A month later, on 30 October, the expert group repeated the call for the necessity of regular testing and proposed a start on 1 November. And when did this proposal become meat? In the homes of December 7, because it was in place — what is it? – there will be no new measures for now. Two months and a few days off, nothing. Yes, it wasn't all in your hands, but we've heard your possible disagreement, your separate opinion, your calls for a different action. You kept your mouth shut, Mr. Secretary. Even though you may have felt otherwise, we did not know this because you did not object publicly. So you agreed with everything. And what, Mr. Minister, is this another responsibility – objective and subjective?Oh, my God! Two months of non-action at this time, from September 7th to the beginning of testing in homes on December 7th, a thousand 32 providers died, and 7 thousand 911 were infected. Third case. Fortunately, this absurd decision from early November was limited to a period of time. I'm talking about a directive that says that health workers with confirmed infection and without symptoms were suddenly allowed to work in red zones. So far, this has turned the current practice upside down. Before quarantine and avoiding risky contacts, now a sudden job. You were willing to risk infection among employees to the detriment of people. But of course, it was still considered that no new measures were needed for the time being. I allow you to have doubts that you disagreed, but of course we don't know this because, yes, you have been silent. Of course, the silence can also mean agreement. And what, Mr. Minister, is different from responsibility – objective and subjective. Dear Minister, the responsibility for not preparing your home for the second wave is yours or yours. No matter how dramatic you speak today about the architectural features of buildings and the lack of investment, this does not oblige you to prepare zones or search for external capacities. This does not oblige you to transfer employees if you have thus assessed whether to introduce early tests. The length of time at home did not excuse your inequity, your lethargy. It's the other way around. You had a chance to act, but you didn't. You could have turned out, but you didn't. And your responsibility is objective and subjective. You are still in charge of the department, although I think we should no longer have him, who is largely responsible for not preparing his home for the second wave. The spring experience was painful and showed where homes were vulnerable. Your duty, Your Honor, was to do everything in your power to protect the most vulnerable. As a result of facts, figures, dates, letters, minutes, opinions, brief documents, not speeches or flat-rate readings, you have not done what you have been asked to do, nor what you have been asked to do. And that is why, Mr. Secretary, you are objectively and subjectively responsible for what is happening in the homes and the consequences of this event. Today, I am sure, we will hear a great deal of gratitude about how much help you have shared with various antikorona packages. Sometimes I wonder if you've eased your conscience, tried to redeem yourself with one-off amounts, to at least cover up in public the inadmissible break and defeat that happened to you in your homes. Let me remind you, Minister, before you nod, how much you've helped people, of the original sin of this necessity of the PKP. They are caused by infections, or, rather, by the spread of infections. As a result, reckless, scrupulous measures have failed to tackle, halt public life, the economy. It's like we're trying to create the reasons for anti-Korona law itself. This is a spiral, fewer infections and more controlled, less reasons to stop public life, bans, penalties and fines, less closures, less reasons to grant aid. And here, Mr. Secretary, your responsibility is objective and subjective, because you have not taken care of meaningful legal provisions that would at least help to infect the spread of the virus. Let's take a closer look. The virus also spread among the active population, specifically in the workplace. These were the second focal point of infection. However, a fundamental error in the fact that the Ministry of Health, because the epidemiological services were no longer able to follow the contacts, stopped the issue of quarantine decisions. With all the self-protection of the employees, the state has cancelled. You, Your Honor, have cancelled. For various situations such as isolation, quarantine, hospital, you have allowed a different amount of compensation, which was also dependent on the place of risk contact. The task of the State was to ensure that people with risky contacts and suspected infections, such as those, will be motivated to stay at home. In Slovenia, however, they were somehow punished for their close contact with the virus or infection. It is your responsibility, Your Honourable Minister, to prepare appropriate amendments to the labour law. Don't share your responsibilities here with anyone, as you did partly at the nursing home. We therefore acknowledge that as Minister of Labour, you are responsible for the spread of infections in the workplace. Let me give you some reasons. Firstly, the employees were deprived of quarantine decisions that would allow proof of entitlement to pay their salaries. In practice, this meant that the assessment and conduct were left to employers. On the other hand, they were without evidence on the basis of which they could enforce remuneration. Both of them did different things. Some employees stayed at home, while others went to work. Some employers understood and believed them, and others did not. With you, Minister, the facts are uniform. You have abandoned your task of ensuring proper regulation with the CAP, by decree, regulation, with an act to prevent infections from entering the workplace. In short, you should act immediately, leaving the area to random behavior and judgment. Secondly, diseases and injuries at work are regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which belongs to your department. Therefore, the excuses for irresponsibility are completely unnecessary. Until the end of 2020, you were silent or did not arrange for compensation for healthcare workers and for nursing homes. It is absurd that you have persisted in the position that covida-19 infection cannot occur in the workplace. Those in the first battle lines were not even worthy of getting a hundred percent wage compensation for possible infections. However, you have not even taken care of marriage grounds that would stimulate employers to organize work from home where they can. The reduction in labour mobility appears to be one of the most important measures to curb the spread of the virus. And you have called for this area, prepared a communication action and an electronic form. And that's it. Having had in your hands the levers of the amendments to the legislation. And that is why, Minister, you are also responsible for the spread of the virus among the active population. You are responsible for not preparing appropriate legal bases to prevent infected persons from entering the workplace. Third impression from interpolation, social dialogue, limping or somehow self-intention. After the eight PKPs, it is clear at least that you never wanted a dialogue that would actually improve the content. As Minister, you were never interested in the opinion of the social partners. You did not understand that in the special circumstances brought about by the epidemic, it is particularly important that you sit at a joint table with employers and employees and listen to them, hear them and harmonise a better solution. But it was too much for you. If social dialogue were to be conducted and the undersigned were abstaining, the Constitutional Court may not temporarily suspend you the so-called compulsory retirement of older workers. Instead of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, you have played a moderator and may even have been on a mission to reduce workers' rights. You just don't want to hear what his core is. Your links with the recipient of the funds have been proven, the composition of the commission is eloquent, as well as a number of indications indicating the unhygienic and clientistic conduct of you as minister, but this case is only to be taken as a stone in the mosaic of your understanding of politics, connections and knowledge; I will not say again. For you, Your Honor, politics is obviously some kind of a range of beauty-telling and impressions. The impression that you're working, you're doing a lot of work. The results — I apologize — do not confirm this. Your mistakes speak of quite the contrary, but you forget all of this that the judge of the act is time. In the absence of words and actions, it is clear for several months that you have not performed your tasks. And that leaves consequences in the homes, in the workplaces. And these are cruel consequences that statistics merely illustrate and silence stories and fates. You're still almost exclusively promoting yourself, polishing the appearance of someone who wants to be a minister, and he can't do that. It is very bad to write to a country run by people who are incapable of assuming the responsibilities that led them — regardless of the consequences, we will defend our chairs. Let me remind you, here, you've gone too far for this pay phone. You have surpassed that you will follow your conscience and work with all your strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Dear Minister, in these words there is also the taking of responsibility, political responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the reply of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Interpellation on 18 February 2021. I give the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunity to Janez Cigler to the King to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable High Council, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a debate on the work and responsibility of me as Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I highly appreciate the National Assembly and your work, honourable Members and Members, and therefore I take the impressions presented in the interpretation very seriously. In my written reply, after my assessment of them, I responded well, in a comprehensive and reasoned manner. It will also be an opportunity today to hold an in-depth debate on this. In the last year, our lives were more marked by the battle against the covida-19 epidemic than anything else, so it is understandable that most of the perceptions from the interpretation are linked to the response of me as the minister and the ministry I am leading to the challenging challenges posed by the epidemic. Today's interpolation will be different from the others, I'm sure. We will talk about how the ministry I run, and the whole government, has faced an epidemic in the nursing homes, our response to the first and second wave of the epidemic, the excessive number of deaths, the implementation of testing, the speed of vaccination. The elderly, especially those who lived at home for the elderly, no doubt paid the greatest tax of the epidemic. Every death is extremely painful, so I reiterate my sincere and deepest condolences to my family. Without a doubt, and with great sincerity, we must acknowledge, honourable Members and Members, the homes of the elderly, the entire care of the elderly has been on their knees, completely unprepared, human resources, financial and spatially neglected. That's why I'm saying it's going to be an interpolation, and it's different. This interpellation will not merely be intended to determine the responsibility of my work and the work of my team, the situation in the homes of the elderly during the epidemic has shown how systematically fed and completely neglected this area, namely the care of the elderly, especially institutional protection, in the past decade. In support, let me present just a few details. The last home of state budget funds was built in 2005, the home of older citizens of Fužina. During the whole period from 2009 to 2019, in 10 years, only 348 new beds were provided for the elderly established by the State. In 2017, no resources were allocated for investments in the homes of the elderly within the budget, no resources were allocated. Between 2008 and 2020, totalling only poor €33 million for investments in older people's homes. Of that in the last five years, only 8.4 million. I think that a graphic representation of investing in the care of the elderly says more than a thousand words. These figures show that the elderly have been pushed off the edge of our society in the past decade. Slovenian society, the whole of Slovenia, has fallen to the test of humanity and to care for the most vulnerable. As Minister, I am aware of the great responsibility and moral duty to regulate and establish the area of comprehensive care for the elderly as one of the priorities of this country. And this government, the Ministry of Labour, did so at the time of the beginning of the mandate at the threshold of the epidemic. Demographic indicators for Slovenia are inexcusable. Society is as strong as its weakest member. Our relationship with the elderly is a reflection of our values and solidarity, a mirror of our humanity. And finally, our reality is that an ever-increasing proportion of our fellow citizens, parents, relatives, friends, neighbors and acquaintances will grow older. According to current data, some 2,000 older people are waiting for an immediate free bed in nursing homes, and by 2030 this number will increase between 6 and 8 thousand. From 2009 to 2019, we provided an additional 2,000 beds, 2,000 beds in ten years in the public network of homes; 348 beds in state and thousands of 696 in concession homes, as I mentioned. Such a dynamic growth of additional capacity in nursing homes is insufficient, worrying, short-sighted, and in the light of the epidemic, I can only say that it is also unworthy, underestimated to the elderly and represents a clear reflection of the previous priorities of this society. These are our plans. As a minister with my team, I have done everything in my power to control the epidemic in the homes of the elderly in the context of the given conditions and opportunities, so thanks — and never too much thanks — to the self-sacrifice staff, care and health care, both have contributed an invaluable share. Cook staff, physiotherapists, all support services, home management, civil protection and, of course, colleagues at the Ministry of Health. I say that we have all reached the maximum possible and, above all, that our conscience is at peace in a given situation. This interpellation, however, has reflected past policies, attitudes towards older people and priorities of past governments. However, I would also like to see it addressed to future visions and concrete solutions. Together with a team of colleagues, we have prepared a clear plan for developing comprehensive care for the elderly. This epidemic was not the first and certainly not the last. However, our shared responsibility is to expect future epidemics to be better prepared for us to say clearly — older ones are full members of this society, so we will provide them with a decent age. This interpretation is also an opportunity to discuss the state of the spirit, openness and equality in our society. As a minister responsible for equal opportunities, I am concerned about the growing intolerance, hatred and exclusion of other thinkers. We must clearly and honestly acknowledge that there are differences between us, that we have different values and different world-viewed beliefs; we are linked by common belonging and love of home and commitment to a common constitutional framework. The diversity must not and cannot be the reason for intolerance, must not be the reason for division or even exclusion. It poisons the atmosphere and does not lead to the future, but leads us back to the past. I want an open, modern, inclusive Slovenia that draws its power from plurality, value, mutual respect and tolerance. Later in the debate, we will be able to present in more detail all preparations, all the activities of the Ministry of Labour with the other responsible, with the Ministry of Health, with the expert group and others, preparation and activities in the first wave, during the first and second waves, in the second wave, and now that we may be on the threshold of the third wave, and we still have to be very careful about what is happening in the homes for the elderly, as far as the epidemic is concerned. I already said that the first wave of the epidemic was expected by the homes to be humane, spatial and financially exhausted, and that there was a lack of safeguards, since the warehouses were empty. The government immediately launched purchase procedures, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, prepared protocols for the treatment of patients infected with a new coronary virus, in the homes of older citizens and instructions for the provision of health care in social institutions. As Minister, I've been in contact with the team all the time with home management, especially where infections broke out. We have issued instructions for adequate protection of users and employees in the field of social protection; in the spring wave of the epidemic, we have stopped the vast majority of homes for the elderly, almost 90%, with respect for all measures. The second wave was really heavy, devastating, you could almost say, hard for all homes for the elderly. In the wake of the massive outbreak of the virus in society, it was almost impossible to defend the intrusion and outbreaks of the virus even in nursing homes, taking into account their situation at that time. The numbers now show after this second wave that the situation in nursing homes has calmed down; things are under control. However, I would like to present this curve, which clearly shows that we have responded to the situation in our homes, first by introducing rapid testing of employees in our homes and then by vaccination on 27 December. At the time, I was alone in Lenart, Slovenski Gorica, where the first residents of the home received the vaccine. The next graph shows this even in a shorter time period, even more focused. The current calming of the situation of the epidemic, but still very closely monitored, allows us to devote more attention to the adoption of systemic measures focused primarily on the four main areas of deinstitutionalisation, institutional protection, regulation of standards and standards, and the adoption of a law on long-term care. Surely you agree that the care of the elderly is a strategic area. Taking it very seriously, showing our activities and data and devoting ourselves to it at the daily level, which ultimately proves significant resources, mobilised both at the level of investment, capacity, human resources support; and these human resources reinforcements already bring results. We will also give priority to this area in the remainder of our term of office, and I am confident that I will hand it over to the successor or successor in an inadequately better state than I received at the outbreak of the epidemic. Now, allow me to speak briefly about the other areas of my activity that are affected by interpolation. As Minister responsible for the field of work and social affairs, from the beginning of my mandate, I feel extremely responsible for the protection of the lives and survival of the various groups of the population, both in terms of labour market measures and vulnerable groups. The key efforts of intervention legislation, to date we have adopted eight packages, are therefore aimed at protecting and assisting all those who have been disproportionately affected by the epidemic; and these are not limited. With the intervention measures taken, we have managed to prevent an excessive economic crisis and an excessive increase in unemployment. The following measures in the field of labour market were crucial: subsidisation of part-time work; reimbursement of home-stay salaries; temporary financial compensation for unemployed persons; human resources enhancement of the Employment Institute; extension and adaptation of active employment policy programmes; and supplement for all persons who lost their jobs during the post-declaration period. Of course, there are other measures for the labour market where the Ministry of the Economy has jurisdiction, but in one way or another, as a government team, we have taken decisions together and combined them to preserve almost 300,000 jobs. Three hundred thousand jobs are more than just these 300,000 jobs. After that, all the members of the families that these employees care about. By preserving our help to preserve their jobs, we have helped them to cope with the worst existential pressures. We have helped hundreds of families, communities and the most vulnerable, who have been given solidarity supplements. A key measure to prevent the spread of infections is work at home, to which I call all the time. The procedures for applying for work at home were simplified and employers were repeatedly invited to use this institute. To this end, I have continuously communicated publicly and have prepared several actions and publications with my colleagues and simplified procedures for determining work over distance. In particular, in the second wave, it sought to encourage as many employers as possible by simplifying the application of work at home via an electronic form and by strengthening calls through the previously mentioned various communication channels. I estimate that from the beginning of the epidemic to 4 December 2020, more than 20 000 employers have been used by the Institute of Labour since 2020, from that date on, when we substantially simplified the application and an additional thousand 650 employers; a total of more than 22,000 employers. For the last round of applications through the SPOT point alone, this covers more than 78,000 employees, which, I believe, has significantly contributed to curbing the spread of infections. My efforts and the efforts of our team will continue to promote this form of work, so we want to simplify or review, in cooperation with the social partners, the work arrangements so far in terms of strengthening family and professional coordination. Slovenia is not a lonely island, so we can also compare ourselves with other countries in the results of our work and check whether we are investing in appropriate, effective measures. And this picture also shows that the measures for the labour market – which we have taken together, which you have also confirmed by the honourable Members and Members here in the National Assembly, for which I am extremely grateful – are effective. They are effective, but they are not these numbers; they are hundreds of thousands of families that I mentioned earlier; and therefore they can grow more confidently into the future after the epidemic. Infections among employees have also been the reality we have faced since we introduced rapid tests on my initiative in mid-November and, at the end of December, started with a priority vaccination within the framework of the government campaign, when the situation is now clearly improving; I mean, of course, the social security workers. In doing so, I should point out that in Slovenia, infection with SARS-COV-2 and consequently covid-19 disease occurring in the workplace is treated in accordance with the applicable rules as injury at work. The exemption from this scheme applies from 31 December 2020 as a result of the Regulation of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help mitigate the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Epidemic, which provides in Article 46 that insured persons who work for health care providers and social security activities shall be compensated from the first day of their retention from work due to covido-19 infection at the rate of 100 % of the basic salary they would receive if they worked. A disease is defined as the reason for this retention. Your Honor, I have already mentioned that I appreciate the effort and dedication of the employees I meet truly. This year, since taking office, I have repeatedly convinced myself that Slovenians are extremely solidarity and we have a highly developed sense of cooperation and social justice; also with social partners, which, as representative and extremely valuable partners – although sometimes difficult to take legislative action in my field – I highly respect and appreciate. As soon as the epidemic was declared, the government focused all efforts on the preparation of the relevant legislative bases, and our ministry has prepared a number of measures to prevent or mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on citizens and the economy. Social dialogue has also been a high priority on the scale of my ministry and this government. With various solidarity supplements, we have covered various groups of the population, including in particular older, large families, socially disadvantaged, unemployed, including employees, self-employed and students who have received solidarity allowances and other supplements. Also in the case of solidarity supplements, we wanted to help those who, without the help of the epidemic, would have been much more difficult to overcome. Dearly respected, we are probably rare who would not be personally or through our family members, among the members of the immediate family, recipients of one or more rights arising from intervention laws in the labour market, solidarity allowances or measures for social protection institutions. If we are honest with ourselves and with each other, it is impossible to say that this government or the Ministry of Labour has forgotten anyone, even if it has acted arbitrarily or insolvently. On the contrary, and behind this with my team, I stand firm. The commitment to the social dialogue of the government and myself personally, which I have also chaired in the first six months of the Economic and Social Council's mandate, in fact, proves a number of meetings of the Economic and Social Council, we see on the display, and a number of proposals that we have also addressed with the social partners; and many of them have also been coordinated to a large extent. We have also reached agreement with the members of the Economic and Social Council in the first wave of the epidemic, among other things, on the rules of procedure for the conduct of negotiations and coordination with the law of these anti-Korona packages, because we have all been aware that the ordinary process, the procedure, the protocol does not allow for a rapid response, for which we were obliged to provide all common suitable grounds. Social partners were also involved in the negotiations on minimum wages at this time, particularly in a more intensive manner at the end of 2020. On 19 January 2021, I consulted them on the new level of minimum wage, and then I had to make a decision here, and I did not miss on one side of the employees who deserve a decent salary for honest work – and the net wages in Slovenia are low – and on the other hand employers who bear the heavy part of the minimum wage raise and the government with intervention legislation also helps them, at least for the most part, to bear this burden. A minister who doesn't care about workers and who doesn't always have the weakest in mind would choose to raise the minimum wage, which is now 1,000 euros gross. All together, I call for a fair reflection, and I assure you that in my statements, interventions and actions, I have always and always advocated for workers, their decent payment, while fully aware of the importance of social dialogue, a solid economy and prosperity for all. Finally, allow me a few more words about a public invitation to help vulnerable groups of the population due to the covida-19 epidemic. It is financed from European funds and has been prepared to help vulnerable groups most affected by the epidemic crisis, where they need the most assistance. The Ministry prepared this call, which was the first of its kind, in good faith that the aid would reach as many vulnerable groups as possible. We didn't use the way to channel money into various studies that would end up in drawers, but we wanted this help to come to people, to the widest possible circle of people. Parliament is also not just this side or just this side, Parliament is a circle. And here we stand together or we sit people of different opinional beliefs. But the pressure can hit any one of us. And as Minister for Equal Opportunities, I am obliged by my team to respond to these hardships and ensure that everyone gets help. The tender documentation was prepared by the Ministry of Industry, the first call for this type in cooperation with the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, since it is European funds. Since this is a public tender covering various substantive areas of the Ministry, the Commission has appointed staff to cover various areas of work at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. The selection was a key criterion of expertise and past experience. Among the recipients are the Association of Youth Friends Ljubljana, SOS Phone, Red Cross, Karitas, Street Kings, Memorial and many others, although only one NGO was exposed as recipient of these funds. Respected and respected, in the last few weeks I have been flown without the number of unwarranted accusations and floods in this house, unfortunately, as in the media. The target was also my associates. Therefore, in this place, as I have stated many times before, I have made sure that I have been expelled from all the institutions of the institution that have been exposed before the performance of the ministerial function. Let me draw attention to the response of the umbrella organisation and network of Slovenian NGOs CNVOS on the social network Facebook, where they wrote that only the fact that the resort minister was formerly co-founder of the institution does not constitute a legal obstacle that the institution should not receive a donation from the Ministry. On the contrary, they warned that this would be a very restrictive and dangerous practice, as it would prevent those active in civil society as volunteers from taking on responsible exposed positions in Slovenian society. This is even desirable in developed democratic countries. We have submitted all the documentation to the competent authorities, including the respected committee, and I am sure that they will do their work and that the matter will, I hope, be completed as soon as possible. In the meantime – let's not pretend – there will not be an unbridled and unwarranted pursuit against me as a representative of a political option that advocates Christian democratic values such as freedom, justice, solidarity and respect for human dignity; as an upstanding advocate of the heritage of that Europe, which we call the core on which the European Union is based. Respected and respected, I still believe in diversity and freedom in Slovenia, which is why I stand before you today, I believe in a society where acts, arguments and concrete actions count. I hope and I believe that you will support me today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Janez Cigler King. We are in very difficult times, which, of all of us, regardless of whether we are in the opposition or in the coalition, require us to direct all our powers to the fight against the epidemic and to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on our lives and thus to face so many personal and human trials. Everyone in this room who sits here today is likely to be joining us further, but let us ask ourselves how much he has focused on working for the common good this year and how much he has undermined both the health and economic security of our citizens and citizens. At this moment, we are directing our powers both in the coalition and of course in the government and in particular in the Ministry of Labour, as it appears, into the third wave of the epidemic, at the same time into the exit strategy and into the post-epidemic sustainable recovery plan, which is also a key objective for all Member States of the European Union. But I am sorry – and I must say this – that in the face of such a difficult health situation, which has affected not only Slovenia, but the whole of Europe and the world, which has left many in pain this year because of the loss of loved ones, many have found themselves in severe economic and social distress to deal with the non-trust issues, to deal with the interpretations that you are investing as a result of the current tape, and even after a new one – at least so reading – with the possible constitutional indictment of the President of the Government. But, colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, we help people. We help people, and people see it, and people also feel it, because no one has been released in the packages that we have put to help people, to help the economy, to help the most vulnerable groups that have undoubtedly been more marked by these severe trials in the situation we are in. So we're helping people, and you're working in the opposition to export constructions abroad about some kind of media freedom and dictatorship that is supposed to rule under this government. In the National Assembly, you are carrying out inadmissible failures and excesses, many times – I must say this because I am the Chairman of the Labour Committee – you are making the work of the committees difficult and delaying the adoption of the necessary legislation. I have been a member of the National Assembly for a number of years, and I can make comparisons between all the mandates that have never happened. And this is unacceptable to the Members of the National Assembly. It is unacceptable for Members of the National Assembly. You have been delaying and wishing in some way that this legislation would not be adopted during all this time when we were adopting packages that were intended to help people. You also often give completely irresponsible initiatives and amendments that show a complete misunderstanding of the current situation, as many are out of economic stability and sustainability. True, you have no responsibility, no responsibility. You can go populism, but you don't have any responsibility. And we're here to say that and show what's really going on. You also work with many actions far from the public health interest. Let me just mention here not wearing masks by some opposition Members. You'll remember, you threw them in here pretty good after the national choir, and some of you won't be wearing these masks anymore, that's bullshit. Not to mention that the Social Democrats have called for schools to be free of masks. And then to the minister you're interpolating today, you're intruding against the virus and you're trying to convince him that he's guilty of death in nursing homes. It's totally mean! It's totally mean! Instead of all of us giving our support and assistance together, we should come out of an epidemic that has hit us all deeply as quickly as possible and with as few consequences as possible. A week ago, a year had passed since the new government had sworn under the leadership of John Janša. Today you are interpreting a minister in charge of the department, which has been led by ministers of the Social Democrats for many years. We can say that it was the real usurpation of the ministry by one party, which left behind years of wrong policies in this area. And it is only today that we are correcting the injustices that have happened to humans all along. Not to mention that this time under these ministers has been irresponsible and millions of euros have been invested in studies, mentioned earlier, in certain projects that have repeatedly been intended for themselves, while society had absolutely nothing to admit from this. Instead of looking in particular at the Social Democrats, I would like to say that they have been in such or different constellations in left governments and have been run by the Ministry of Labour most of the time – instead of devoting these millions to caring for the elderly, building a home for the elderly, the social position of the most vulnerable. How much did you really give for them? You'll be able to say, I hope, with the numbers. How much did you give to the disabled? How you have dealt with their tribulations, which they have been warning for many years, and to whom many injustices have been done, and today, thank God, we are also correcting them. How much did you aim to strengthen your family’s issues? I'm really interested in numbers. How much help have you given to large families? And then I'm going to tell you how progressive this government is, but it's working, and it's working, and it's working honestly, how much it's devoted to helping large families. To establish such an environment that young people would have the opportunity to work at home, they were adequately paid for it, not to go abroad with their knowledge; how much did you really want to do so? How much? That's what I'm interested in, and I hope to get an answer from you later. How much did you spend on these areas? Over the past ten years, when you had governments, how many homes did you put in for the elderly? Too bad that there are no more representatives of the Social Democrats here, maybe someone can say that those sitting here are silent. I think why. Because the number is nothing. The number's nothing. How many have you adapted and renovated? So I'm going to ask you, how much funding have you made for new construction, adaptation and renovations? How much money? I'll answer if you don't know. In about ten years, less than €25 million. And today you are interpreting the minister of this government, who only provides five times more funds, European and other public funds, than at any time of your government, to the left. Let us take a look at some specific information. Only for the daily centres and for temporary accommodation of the elderly in Slovenia is €21 million currently earmarked, which is not a period of ten years, but a period of several months. We build homes for the elderly because we are aware that the space crisis is exceptional and that we urgently need new and additional capacities. We've been warning about this in the SDS all along in all these years, and nothing's moved. But today it is approved to build five homes for the elderly and complete two existing ones. The government has provided EUR 30 million in the budget for this. The energy rehabilitation of two homes for the elderly will also be completed, which should have been implemented long ago. In the past, we have repeatedly warned ourselves that there is a chronic shortage of staff in social security institutions, especially at the time of the outbreak. But look at the difference. To this end, the Ministry of Labour, led by Minister Janez Cigler King, immediately provided EUR 26 million for additional employment. In addition, 541 people were employed and 116 were currently employed through public works. And yes, that money will have to be returned. There's no doubt about it. I'm pointing this out because you're always warning me that these funds will have to be returned. Yes, they will have to be returned, but we will be returning the money that was intended to raise the quality of life of our older fellow citizens, which will be left to us once; while yours, that is, the left governments, have put money into the rescue of the Taiwanese banks, so that some privileged people continue to live lives at the expense of all of us. So we are in debt creating added value to the quality of life of people, and you are exclusively in the quality of life of individual chosen ones or, if you want, you want. So once again, only for additional jobs – just for additional jobs – 26 million euro has been allocated to social security institutions in this short period of time, while you have spent less than 25 million euros on construction, adaptation, renewal of DSOs in about ten years. And these are data, and these are comparisons that directly shock – shock – and show your real face in some way. These figures show your true face and at the same time ask us all a perfectly correct and logical question, where and where you actually allocated funds in this area. And believe me, pensioners, I've talked to them myself, including as chairman of the committee, and they want to know why since 2009, less funds have been allocated to investing in pension infrastructure than, say, financing NGOs, let's just say, those based on Metelkova. And to warn you, I don't go into the work and content of NGOs here, so I don't get it wrong. Finally, we have worked well with some, especially through the Commission on Human Rights. I just have to say this, but the relationship is completely broken from the perspective of this coalition and this government. That is why I do not understand such decisions and ask you, in particular the SD client, because she had a minister in this department, otherwise I would not mention why you have allocated less money to creating living conditions for pensioners than to the organisations mentioned earlier. I kind of promised to ask that question. Now I have set it up because I thought it was right to do so; and I hope that I will also get this answer below. Above all, I also ask this because, while you are always stressing the concern for the elderly, the concern for the pensioners, but never mention them, it is interesting to me, because I expect a transparent policy, never mention that yours, as I have now displayed in plastic terms, are social priorities, if I say so, the maintenance of those non-governmental organisations which, under the pretext of civil society, apply your ideology. The level and achievements of these millions invested in the so-called progressive culture in the last year we have been able to admire before and at the facade of the Ministry of Culture, on leaflets glued to Ljubljana, in art installations before the National Assembly, where a great performance was made of snow, burning a puppet with the face of the Prime Minister, throwing pyrotechnics among horses and shouting "Death of Janshism!" and "Kill Janshu!". The latest achievement, however, is the label labels – entry of members of the SDS is prohibited. Real well-spent millions. I hope that you will be honest with people at the next, including the pre-election hearings where they will be, and also in the debates in the National Assembly from now on, and that you will also honestly tell us where you will continue to invest millions. And now you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, after all this, report to this government and to this minister that it is their fault that the covida-19 epidemic has marked the right homes for the elderly and that it has demanded the most human lives. And you can see – this is the first and second reading by the minister of the four interpretations – that the minister has acted ineffectively to contain the spread of the virus. Now let's take a look at the truth. During the period of the previous governments, the Slovenian Democratic Party, as an opposition party, has constantly pointed out the human resources substantiation of the DSOs and the necessity of expanding capacity and restoring existing capacities. However, in this area, virtually nothing has been done until the outbreak of covida-19 in terms of improving human and spatial conditions. At the time of the outbreak, such a leaking condition undoubtedly caused a difficult control of epidemiological conditions, which, given the fact that elderly people are usually in poor health, some even immobile, inevitably caused a faster spread of the highly infectious covid-19 virus. In the given situation and with the staff available, the current government has done the most that can be done. Additional temporary capacity has been established to ensure quarantine. Additional professional and voluntary human resources support has been provided. The medical treatment of each elderly person in each DSO was taken into account, so the Minister’s findings regarding the death of the guards are entirely unfounded. The situation could be better and the number of deaths would be smaller if previous governments took into account the warnings of SDS parties and European institutions and began to regulate this area in a timely manner. Taking into account the warnings on the need for human resources reinforcements, there would also be more opportunities to compensate for the absence of patients among employees, which would also reduce the possibility of elderly people coming in contact with the infected person. We must not forget, however, that there was a great deal of pressure on the part of the owners of the guards not to prohibit the visit, even though it was a major health risk for the residents. Of course, all of us can understand the desire of relatives together, for they certainly missed each other and were certainly concerned about each other. But instead of comforting and helping them together, they were encouraged to make a necessary move at the time of the epidemic, in the opposition, even in the first wave, the government's decisions and measures were rejected as through the current tape and worked all the time to prevent people from trusting in the government's decisions. And now I seriously wonder why the opposition acted like this. And I seriously thought that you were politically betting that your way back to power is only possible if, in the fight against the epidemic, this government is on fire. In some ways, you have tied political interests to the widest possible range of infection, mortality, breakdown of the health system and economic breakdown. I am saying this because I do not understand why in the first wave, in particular, we would call people to protests, send them back to schools, without masks, have had an action against the application, make heroes out of anyone who violated the measures, and insult the flock and the sheep – so we read on social networks – all those citizens who respected the measures and cared that the consequences of the epidemic would be as small and short as possible. That's why I don't see anything but that you wanted to create a burning place from which you would rise up as great saviors of the country, of freedom and of democracy. While I hope that I am wrong at this point, I really hope I am wrong, but I doubt it, but I hope that I am wrong at this point and that you were only immature and immature in the situation we were in. However, as far as the first and second remarks are concerned to the Minister, the truth is that many homes were inadequately built, that they were poorly maintained, that they did not even meet the minimum standards – I convinced myself that I was walking around different homes for the elderly and other welfare institutions even as President of the Human Rights Commission – and that made it difficult to resist and prevent the spread of the virus. However, respectable colleagues and colleagues in the opposition are not responsible for such a situation, which was precisely one day at the time of the declaration of the epidemic. If your governments had invested in properly built homes in recent years, they could have prevented many of the sad events that have unfortunately taken place. But I understand, given what I said earlier and when I plastically showed you where you were putting the funds, I understand that some other programs and content are more important to you. And there's nothing wrong with that. Nothing. Just say it out loud next time, clearly, so that people can give their voice to the one who really represents their interests. Next. We're at the third reading. You see the Minister as having inadequate dialogue with the social partners. As regards this perception of inadequate dialogue with the social partners, if ever, social dialogue is still alive under this government. He's so alive. It flows on a very high level. Many meetings of the Economic and Social Council have been convened, at which many proposals from so-called anti-Korona packages have been coordinated with the social partners. An excellent dialogue was conducted by the government with representatives of the economy, which has always reached a high consensus on economic and employment-related measures. Last but not least, due to the good measures covered by the real Ministry of Labour, some 300,000 jobs have been retained so far. Unfortunately, some union leaders, I will say this now, have not come to negotiate, but to oppose, at all costs, to offer impossible conditions. And with such behavior, many times they have been excluded from the dialogue themselves. And it's always the same. As President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I am very closely monitoring the content relating to this Committee. I am in regular contact with both the Minister and the Secretary of State, and I can say that we have established excellent communication – I think the Minister can also confirm this – and that the Ministry has heard of problems in this area that I have been alerting for many years. I insist that we correct the injustices that have been caused and amend and improve legislation that is not good. For example, I'm only going to mention one case. I am very happy that we will finally arrange for the status of family assistants, for which I thank the Minister now that he has listened to us in some way with the family helper section. And this is also a dialogue, and this is a successful dialogue. You are interpelling a minister in the government who has made extraordinary moves in the field of work, employment, social issues, families, people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups and has helped with many measures in a single year. Not in ten years, in one year. Let me quickly mention only some who are connected to the social sphere and are linked to more vulnerable groups. We've raised the lowest invalidity pensions. We have already proposed this several times in the past in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You've always voted against it, well, today we're handling it. We have eliminated the discrimination and injustice that has occurred to the farmers' insurance companies. You've always been against it here, too. As soon as we made the government or formed it, we fixed it. The wrong is being corrected for the back, which happened to full-year invalids with the status of a student. And here he also thanks the Human Rights Commission, which has dealt with this. We increase the compensation for lost income, which belongs to one of the parents who has to leave work because he has to care for a child with a serious illness. This law will shortly be before you in the National Assembly, and it is also a dialogue, respected colleagues and colleagues, to communicate good solutions that should have been adopted long ago. But it is not dialogue that a certain president of the union comes to the talks with a predetermined goal of not being able to talk to this government. This isn't a dialogue. This is a decision, this is not a dialogue. Dialogue means talking to someone, talking to them, and shaking down the best possible solutions. This isn't a dialogue. But people thank God very much know what was done for them during this time only in this area, which belongs to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. And once again, it's not in ten years, it's in one year. You are interpelling a government minister who has provided the following €600 million for 2020 in the field of the Ministry of Labour alone for family action, as families are facing a number of challenges at the time of the epidemic. Through solidarity supplements and crisis supplements, the most vulnerable groups of the population have been helped. Employers were granted refunds up to the average wage and were also exempt from contributions for all social insurance. The employer was exempted from payment of the employer’s contribution to the ZPIZ and thus reduced the cost of the salary, together with EUR 48 million for the exemption measure. A solidarity allowance was provided for pensioners receiving low pensions, i.e. up to €700; at the time of the first wave of the epidemic, between € 130 and €300, according to the amount of the pension. The measure involved more than 300,000 pensioners, followed by another solidarity allowance for pensioners. The basic income was paid at €350 for the month of March and €700 for April and May 2020. Total monthly base income of more than €83 million was paid, with an average monthly base income of around 38 000 beneficiaries. A unique solidarity allowance for newborns has been granted. One of the parents or adoptee of a child resident in Slovenia born between 1 January 2020 and one year after the end of the epidemic receives a single solidarity allowance for newborns of EUR 500. We have increased the allowance for large families, €100 for families with three children and €200 for families with four or more children. We have earmarked a single solidarity allowance of EUR 50 for all children, then an allowance for the care of the child, which has increased. Already in the first wave, I mentioned earlier, we granted a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros or those who were recipients of the lowest pensions, cash social assistance or a security allowance and students were entitled to it. And, of course, I can't get past the crisis supplement here. To any employee whose last monthly salary paid did not exceed twice the minimum wage, the employer paid a monthly crisis allowance of 200 euros, which is exempt from all taxes and contributions. And here I will say what is also stated in the Minister for Labour's response, "because the Minister understands the social hardships, he has also sought to agree on a minimum wage increase for the social partners." And that's the deal, that's the dialogue. And finally, we arranged for free parenting in a health care facility with a child and many other good measures. And now to the fourth reading. You shall inform the Minister of the corruption and clientism of the allocation of funds through the invitation to tender to the Institute of Honesty. I will be brief here, given that I believe that this debate should not even take place here in this case, but of course we are in Parliament and we can talk about a lot of things. The Minister forwarded all the documentation relating to this call to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. She'll make her point. Also on the work committee, where we discussed this subject on a proposal from the Levic Group, came the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and made it clear that immediately after receiving the documentation they would review it and see what was at stake. And here the powers of the National Assembly absolutely end. Whether the Minister acted corruptly, it is only for the competent authorities and not for the Members of the National Assembly to judge. Of course, all officials must be committed to the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act and act accordingly. The government of Janez Janša in one year after the epidemic, and also in the face of an extremely hostile atmosphere, which was helped to inspire even the largest media in the country, has done a great deal. This government has done a great deal for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia. And that's what people know, and that's what people appreciate. All coalition partners have made important moves within the framework of the resources entrusted to them, which I hope will continue in the next term, as everyone who lives in this country, works in this country, pays taxes and loves this country. In the opposition, you also constantly read about some kind of system and sub-system sub-system sub-system sub-systems. I've said this a number of times, but I'll be at the end one more time. We actually normalize them and democratize them. You're telling us that under this government we're breaking democratic fastings and standards. In fact, we are only strengthening them by the example of those countries that have a significantly longer democratic tradition than ours. At that time, we did not take the key steps necessary to establish a democratic system. All the countries that came out of a similar system as ours did some sort of lustration, either through the constitution or through other acts. But why am I saying this? Not because I would like to open this subject up, but because it is important for the nation, because of the impact of the national catastrophe, which thus relieves it, relieves it, relieves itself of its guilt and can unburdenedly participate in the processes of democratisation. Secondly, because of the so-called institutional impact that leads to the highest positions, let's say the justice system, but I'm talking about the highest levels of the justice system, there cannot be individuals in the highest positions who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system. So we're strengthening democracy. And I can also support this claim with international indicators that now place Slovenia in 35th place among all countries in the world, according to the Democracy Index. And even if we look at the level of democracy back in our country, we can see that the index of how democratic a country is in Slovenia is always the highest right when it leads the government of Janez Janša. That is what happened in the past, and so is today. But to erase that, you're just launching media propaganda about some authoritarianism and dictatorship and the police state. All of this left, so-called progressive, intellectual policy that you belong to, today, unfortunately, also results in such writings. I quote: “Another Jancist ritualist, another domestic prick, another SDS corrupter, a liar. Another SDS piece of shit, another SDS asshole, asshole, idiot, another kind of SDS Jancist date, SDS shaking, SDS pompous! Ugh, stinker, motherfuckers, along with the dirty, traitorous Mozino! I'm a stinking piece of shit in a pile." End of quote. And this is not a set of records, but a single record of the lady who works at the social work centre, that is, an institution that belongs directly to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same possibilities that Minister Janez Cigler King is currently leading. Can you imagine how difficult it is to work in such an atmosphere?Oh, my God! And yet, the Minister is doing well. We will not support the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the Slovenian Democratic Party of Interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister with the team! Let me start by saying a few things that we'll understand what we're talking about today. We are talking about interpretation against the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. And in the interpolation, we've got four readings. In a democratic society, which the party likes so much to build in its image, questions are raised when interpreting. And we have opened up these questions and expected to discuss these key four issues today, of which there are two questions or two obviouss of those on which this minister stands or falls and, if you ask me, the government too. And we've heard a little bit about these images of ours, and we've listened to what we don't read to the minister and we don't read to this government. We've heard of one-off solidarity aids — we don't see that. We've heard about the crisis supplement – we don't see it either. We have heard about how successful you are in encouraging a job-waiting and part-time measure – we have not seen this in interpretation either. We have not even told you that the problems with the minimum wage and minimum hourly rate were for students, nor have you provided more funds for the elderly in the budgets. You don't see this in this interpretation in the LMSH and the opposition. But it is clear to me and it is clear to us that today we will listen to everything, especially those things that are not related to interpretation, for one reason – to divert attention from two key things that we are reading to you, Minister, two key mistakes for which you are responsible; and in our opinion we should give up ourselves for this. And in today's debate, we will prove to you, Madam Minister, that due to your neglect, you are responsible for the rapid spread of the virus in the workplace and in the homes of older citizens. We are confident in the LMŠ – so we have also tabled an interpellation – that it is you, the minister, who is also one of the most responsible for the rapid spread of infections in the workplaces and the high number of deaths in the homes of the elderly. Why do we say that? Firstly, neither you nor the Minister have prepared appropriate legislative proposals and other measures to curb the spread of the virus in the workplace. The result is rapid spread of infections in the population and large economic damage, including in the form of numerous closures of various companies. Secondly, neither the government nor you, as Minister, have heard proposals and warnings, so you have not acted in a timely and appropriate manner to protect the home of older citizens. The result of your bride's work is a large number of infected and more than 2,000 dead. Your conduct or abandonment of the duty to prevent the spread of the virus in the workplace and to protect residents of the homes of the elderly in addition to the signs of the offence under Article 258 of the Penal Code, is said to be a non-disclosure in the service, including elements of a criminal offence under Article 177 of the Penal Code covering the scope of action to restrict the transmission of communicable diseases. But this is not what we will be dealing with today, which will be dealt with by some other authorities; today we will argue and explain on the basis of data that you are politically responsible, at least objectively, and in our opinion also subjectively. Being a minister is much more than creating an impression and a public image that the minister is trying and doesn't care about people. Being a minister means at least creating confidence in the public, trust in institutions and the rule of law. A good minister can admit mistakes and correct them, a good minister can find solutions, ask the right questions, trust people who know more than he does, be respectful and hope to say out loud that he disagrees with what he says. Above all, the minister must be a mature person who knows what is right and what is wrong, is aware of his responsibilities towards people and the country and knows the responsibility when it comes to doing so. But your government is far from that. Your government seems to be working, and at the same time creating chaos in all areas and spreading fear. He's looking for the culprits, making them up, if I'm more specific, and he's putting others on the line for his mistakes, and there's not a lot of them. And you, as a member of this government, are no different – you give the impression that you are working hard, talking a lot, and in our opinion, doing a little less, looking for excuses and putting responsibility on others for your mistakes or failures. We were able to hear that today in your presentation and also in the presentation before me that SDS had. You've jeopardized your responsibility and you've been looking for the culprits for what's happening to you, for the attack. And you can answer these mistakes quite simply by arguing that we are wrong. And now I'm going to focus on just two key areas where you've made key catastrophic mistakes. One of the main focal points for the spread of the virus was jobs, as our fellow Member Jerca Korče said in her opening act, and the jobs were the multipliers from which the infections spread into the population and thus into the homes of older citizens. On 5 August, the Association of Employers of Slovenia drew attention to the problem of the spread of infections in the workplace. At that time, they wrote on their website: “We have recently been informed that infections with the new coronavirus spread mainly in jobs.” As a result, in early August the Association of Employers of Slovenia called on entrepreneurs to pay attention to measures to prevent the spread of the virus in working organisations. It is said that there have been warnings about the spread of the virus in the workplace. Did you do anything specific in August to limit the spread of infections? No, you did not respond at all, you ignored this threat, you did not prepare and take measures to prevent jobs from becoming the main source of infection in Slovenia. And that is exactly what happened, which was confirmed by the National Institute of Public Health in November of its analysis. Germany alone should be copied in their measures to limit the spread of the virus into the economy. Their Minister of Labour, your colleague, has taken the view that people infected with crowns and diseases should not work, so the country must help these people in the economy. The Germans were aware that companies could become major hotspots for the spread of infections, as well as Croatians and Austrians, and if they wanted the economy to act as if schools were open, that their elderly homes were safe, they had to act quickly and effectively. They acted in such a way that employees who have become infected or suspected of being infected remain at home and are entitled to a full salary allowance, regardless of where they have been infected or where they have had a risky contact. The German State responded immediately to the spread of the virus in the workplace in a way that ensured that every infected worker, or suspected of infection, was compensated for a hundred percent of the wages. In our country, however, we are still complicated or complicated, and we have different amounts of compensation for the infected and those suspected of infection. They took timely action abroad because they could see the whole; and they did not deal with Metelkova, the opposition, the walls, the cafes on Petrol, the young protestors, and more. No, they worked and looked at the whole because they realized that things were interconnected, they depended on increasing infections in jobs to increase infections in the population; and this had consequences such as school closure, curfew, closure of a certain part of the economy, and also the effects on the most vulnerable part of society, on the most vulnerable population — the elderly. And, of course, this affects the homes of the elderly and the hospitals, which also means that because of the large number of visible patients, treatment of non-invisible patients is reduced, which is due to excessive death and so on and so on. We have a whole circle, everything depends on each other, and we need to look at the whole thing. This domino effect can be drawn on its own when one dominoes fall; and your economy fell, jobs fell or infections spread incredibly quickly in jobs, and the result was the rapid spread of infections in the population and everything I counted and faced. The responsibility for the rapid and uncontrolled spread of infections in the workplace is with you, Minister. In August, you did not prepare appropriate incentives that would allow more work from home. In the first wave, we were able to find out from the analysis – I think the Faculty of Mathematics – that in the first wave from home, 70% of the people were working; in the second wave, only 30% were working. During the summer, you also did not prepare an effective quarantine decision system, together with the Ministry of Health, in case of an increase in infections, which caused the collapse of this system in October and further accelerated the spread of infections in the population. And in the end, to all the infected and those who had a risky contact, no matter where they got infected or where they had this risky contact, you didn't provide a hundred percent wage compensation to cover the country, but you made it complicated. Many of the employees had to go to work with risky contact or with milder symptoms in order to receive full pay, transportation to work, and the cost of lunch. But even you asked health and social workers who worked with visible patients in full protective equipment to prove that they were infected at work if they wanted to receive a hundred percent hospital compensation. Undoubtedly prove that they were infected in the workplace. You know how hard this is? Despite the opposition's warnings and the suggestions of the profession, you did not take this into account and as a result, a number of health workers received 80% of the salary. It is unheard of to us that you expected people in health and social care, people in the first battle lines who had a lot of work in the second wave, even because of your mistakes, to prove that they had clearly infected themselves in the ministry. That's embarrassing. For all the millions that you have shared with the various PKPs and with which you have also boasted today. As a result of all of this, the spread of infections in the workplace and the non-acceptance of the right measures to at least try to ease this spread should be waived. But you haven't even done your job to protect residents and employees in the homes of older citizens. Sorry you didn't know what the danger was, but there's no excuse here. Already in the first wave and at the beginning of the summer, you were familiar with the problems faced by older citizens' homes and with suggestions on how to prevent the virus from entering their homes and spreading the virus within them. The basic guide for all of these initiatives, which you have already received in the first wave, was to have uniform leadership, organisation and plan and to activate all resources — state, health, financial, educational, material and other — in order to protect the most vulnerable population. Let me tell you just a few problems that representatives of the homes of older citizens sent to you in the first wave. Homes do not have the appropriate facilities to carry out isolation of infected or those who have had a risky contact. So they can't separate the sick from the healthy. There is no periodic testing of employees and tenants. There is no adequate number of doctors and other medical personnel in the homes to monitor patients. The staff in nursing homes is not yet adequately qualified to work in isolation. There are problems with the personnel, at least extra personnel are needed. This is just a few of the problems that have been sent to you by representatives of the homes of older citizens in March and April. March and April of last year. And I'm only supposed to touch two of these problems. You have been informed that homes for various reasons, we have heard them today, because you also mentioned them, multi-year non-investment, architectural barriers, age of home and so on, do not have the appropriate space to perform isolation of the infected or those who have had a risky contact, so that homes need isolation space inside or outside the home. You knew that. You knew this information on 27 March 2020 and you, as Minister of Health or former Minister of Health, have this letter. And what you've done since 27. 3. 2020 and the summer? According to our intel, they don't fight much. You've talked a lot, you've done a little bit. And what could we do? During the summer, plans could be drawn up that would be practical and would provide additional spatial capacity for older people's homes. The problem would be solved in a way that the Ministry, your ministry, would take over the coordination of the provision of additional facilities for isolation spaces, so that within the home of older citizens the necessary zones are arranged, where possible, or that mobile adjustment units be placed at home, or that a hotel, spa or other nearby facility be rented, of course, on condition that sick elderly people are not moved to hospitals. It is true that during the summer we would be working on supplies, but since the second wave was forecasting, we should be ready, and unfortunately you were not. However, you did not do so during the summer, although on July 21st, the government’s expert group urged you to help homes that cannot organize isolation zones or red zones. The decision remained unfulfilled for months. It was not until 24 October 2020, seven months after the first call for proposals, that you made it possible for homes to recover the rental costs of external premises. At least three months later, the minister, the infections had already spread widely, and the homes were left to themselves. The following error was the late mandatory regular testing of residents and employees in the homes of older citizens, for which funds are provided by the State. This proposal, too, was officially sent to both ministries on 27 March 2020. It'll be one year from now. But you didn't do anything. And in the summer you did not organize mandatory tests in the homes of older citizens, but you did not do so, although the government expert group warned you twice about this on September 27 and October 30. The homes of older citizens warn you, your government expert group warns you twice – and you do not react. You do not prescribe mandatory testing of employees in DSOs. No, I'm sorry, you prescribe it in December 2020, nine months after the first warning. Dear Minister Cigler King, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc, you have disregarded your duty and now you are responsing to others and looking for different excuses. Despite the whole project, first-wave experience, examples of good practices from abroad, proposals from professions and housing associations, as well as us in the opposition, you have not even prepared measures to limit the spread of infections in jobs and in older people's homes; let alone start to fully implement them. You ignored the key warnings and suggestions, so you and the government failed. Unfortunately, at the expense of all of us. Also because of your mistakes, Slovenia faces tragic consequences for human health and life. We are in the world summit after the number of infected and dead per million inhabitants, more than 200,000 infected and 4 thousand 224 dead, of which more than 2,000 are in the homes of older citizens. The damage caused by the poor management of the epidemic has also occurred in education, the economy, health care and society in general. The least we should do to date is offer a resignation to the President of the Government, if we are of course aware of what the word responsibility means and what is right and what is wrong. This would really make a first step into the world of adulthood, into the world of adulthood on the political floor. We would take responsibility because you failed to protect the most vulnerable and employees. You were responsible for these two groups. In LMŠ today we will vote in favour of your departure, Minister, for your departure from the ministerial office, which you have not grown up with, you are no match for her. Not everyone is for everyone, we know that, but the times we've been and are don't allow for big mistakes. Unfortunately for all of us, Minister, you've been in the wrong place at the wrong time. And with you at the head of the ministry at the coming third wave, announced by your president and we have also heard the announcement by the SDS in its position, Slovenia is worse off. Thank you very much. I would like to answer these key questions, the key findings presented to you by Ambassador Jerca Korča and presented to you in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Today, the National Assembly deals with the fourth interpretation during the government of Janez Janša, the interpretation of the work of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of John Cigler King. The slogan of Nova Slovenije is significant, from which comes Minister Cigler Kralj – “NSi for all people”. Is it true for all people? Or only those who are in your image of what is right and wrong, and not what is in the wider public interest and in the public good. The Minister is expected to have a high degree of integrity and responsible conduct, especially when it comes to assets managed or held in the public interest. Today we will talk about the values, the valuable forms of such doing by the Minister of the Brickler King, who is suspected of corruption, bias, a violation of integrity in the operation of public funds of €130,000 to the Office of Honesty. His way of working and the work of ministerial colleagues strengthens people's sense of injustice and the spread of corruption. When a person assumes a ministerial office, he must also take responsibility. In the performance of his office, the minister, instead of taking it as a tool for the creation of a just and patient society, has put it in the role of the one who chooses, who receives and who does not, who will have the opportunity to survive and who does not. Not only with one mistake, but through a series of mistakes you have proved, Your Honor, that your lives are not the same. Minister Cigler King has a major black mark in the fight against the epidemic, which is the direct responsibility of this government and also the decision of the minister. In view of the ineffective action taken to incapacitate covid-19 in nursing homes, as the minister is told in the interpretation of the opposition party, we had a total of 4 000 222 dead with covid-19. Nearly 95% of these are over 65 years of age, and half of them were home providers for elderly or social welfare institutions. More than 2,000 deaths – 2,000 deaths, respected colleagues and colleagues! – an extremely high proportion, despite the fact that we have better standards for spatial and human resources than in many other countries that have had lower disease and death statistics than Slovenia, because of covida-19, 1 out of every 10 providers of home and 15% of all positive providers died. When it comes to meeting the well-sounding promises of improving the working situation of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in particular with projects that are the result of the efforts of previous ministerial colleagues, we see the Minister with a smile in the first place. He boasts of success in preventing the spread of the epidemic while accusing his predecessors of areas not adequately addressed. But even though the expert group at the Ministry of Health at the end of September found that more needs to be done to protect caregivers in nursing homes, the following day Minister Cigler Kralj said only publicly that "new measures will not be taken in nursing homes for the time being; the measures we put in the first wave are sufficient." So the minister says we've done enough. While the minister lives in some imaginary reality, others have been fighting for humanity in relation to the most vulnerable groups in our society. In a society that behaves at a high level of the state of prosperity and solidarity, people's lives were classified as “high value”, “valued health care” and “described”. I don't know because it's too expensive to save him, or what?Oh, my God! Social Democrats have been warned in the spring that the decision not to move the sick from home to the elderly to hospitals is to physically separate them into red zones to another location, one of the most controversial decisions. We have pointed out that the introduction of mandatory testing is too slow for all employees and relatives who visited their relatives. In other countries – for example, since the beginning of September, at least twice a week, staff have been regularly tested in homes, and in practice, as already mentioned in its introduction to Minister Cigler, it was not until 7 December – that the preventive testing measure has proved to be one of the key to preventing the virus from being brought into the homes of the elderly by asymptomatic infections. We have warned, but we have been over-heard, as in the adoption of PKPs and intervention legislation on a daily basis, as have the true heroes who have done their daily hard work in public health and social welfare institutions. We are grateful to all working doctors and doctors, nurses, nurses, and caregivers who have borne the greatest burden of our collective effort. Due to the overcrowding, exhaustion and burnout caused by the workload, employees deserve more respect from the State for their work. This was also the reason why we proposed an amendment to the CAP5, which would better reward employees who have been working all the time outside the scope and regulations laid down by labour law and collective agreements. The current system of remuneration does not take into account the level of risk to both the physical and mental health of workers. In doing so, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me mention that employees are also waiting for the already agreed allowances after several months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have noted to Minister Kozlovic in the attacks on the rule of law in Slovenia and the non-titlement of European prosecutors, as we read on Monday's interpretation to Minister Kustec in closed schools and harmful policies in the field of education and education, this is that they are silent and noxious enforcers of the orders of President of the Government, but do not have a real understanding of the reality of the situation in society. Similarly, we can tell the Minister of Bricks to the King. It is obvious to him that he cannot or does not want to get into conflict with John Janša, is clearly and loudly taking up the focal point that he is leading, for the people concerned. And it's just, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues to keep this government in its positions. Even so much so that on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Minister Cigler Kralj attaches to the statements made by the President of the Government, who does not hide a plan to restrict the financing of NGOs and identifies them as parasites, used by the State, and agrees that we should abolish all public calls from which NGOs are financed. At the same time, it declares that cooperation with NGOs is an important part and mission for the ministry, as NGOs meet the objectives of helping people with the implementation of programmes for the most vulnerable. Understand who can. Even so much so that the official communications of government representatives are in negotiations with the social partners – we have a mandate to listen, record and mediate; we do not have a mandate to say that this is harmonised. While the Minister boasts that a person is a supporter of social dialogue and boasts about the number of meetings of the Economic and Social Council, the reality is that the dynamics and quality of negotiations are at zero. Partners leave meetings because they are not worthy of communication, openness or equal partnership. Even so, the Minister for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child did not object at the meeting of the Government, where the decision on the temporary partial restriction of movement for people was being amended, on 22 October 2020, which divided the discriminatory children between spouses and illegals. Even so much that Minister Cigler King already in August, prior to the passing of the Long-Terms Act on Long-Term Supply to Public Debate, argued that "as colleague Gantar, then Minister of Health, has done well, in fact, we have been tandem since the first day," the regulation of the long-term care system immediately stopped on the issue of additional resources from the solidarity contribution to the public treasury. The Minister does not seek to strengthen the public, as he likes to boast in the public, but rather the approach to the realization of the vision of rich stakeholders, large private insurance companies and close customers, who have been delayed by the management of more than EUR 300 million of public money. In these difficult times and deep crises, when people have lost their jobs, their businesses, young people have lost their momentum and the right to know, when we have a significant deterioration of living standards, more violence in the family when we talk about increasing social differences and inequalities, and the Minister is drawing an idyllic picture of how measures to prevent the spread of the virus have a positive impact on the flow of everyday work and schooling from home – In the morning no one has to rush, in peace you can have breakfast, work and learn in comfortable clothes, worship your pet, eat lunch together, relax and exercise. I don't know, citizens and citizens, what are you so opposed to these idyllic measures?Oh, my God! The ministers' party colleagues similarly draw an idyllic picture of family happiness, which is advocated in Novi Slovenije. The reality, Minister of Respect, is far from that. The reality for those in comfortable clothes who prepare breakfast is that they no longer have jobs when there is no heating money, when a four-member family lives in a wet one-bedroom apartment, when there is no computer or internet to train children, when parents who have full-time jobs and work from home care for three more school-bound children, one of them with special needs when a husband beats a wife and children while others in suits accompany the death of people. How can we say that it was done enough?Oh, my God! Social Democrats at such an important ministerial centre at the time of the epidemic missed a person who would protect the most vulnerable, who would be an ally of workers and unions who would offer solutions to frightened and concerned people with distress and pain on their faces. We believe that Slovenia will come out of this crisis and that Janez Janša's government will end. We hope that as soon as possible, in Slovenia, freedom, prosperity and security will be restored to all its citizens and citizens, that the community will live and work in solidarity and connected to understand what it means to be human again under the idea of a society that gives equal opportunities and opportunities to all people. That is why, my fellow Members and colleagues, in the Group of the Social Democrats, we will support the interpretation of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with all 12 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, Secretary of State and everyone present! Your Honor! Today's interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is also marked by an attempt to abuse exceptional circumstances to reinterpret events which in this case indicate the passivity of all governments to one of the most vulnerable social groups, i.e. the elderly. The last home for the elderly in Slovenia was built with budget money in 2005, which is a good 16 years ago. Since then, in terms of providing additional capacity, care for older people in different locations throughout Slovenia has been left to concessionaires who, together with public institutions, provide an effective network of institutional protection for older people. The aim of the country should be to ensure that homes are affordable and accessible locally for the elderly. That is why we support the activities of Minister Janez Cigler King, with which it will be easier to provide care and care for the elderly in the future due to various diseases, among which special attention needs to be paid due to dementia or due to reduced autonomy in daily tasks. On this occasion, the Minister is supported in the project to build additional capacity with daily centres and temporary accommodation units, for which some 20 million euros are allocated. Data on the number of infected and the number of deaths are not a secret. They show a bad picture and the fact that most of the epidemiological tax has passed on to the most vulnerable individuals in our society. Or would it be different if the social pillar run by Minister Cigler King belonged to the motioners of today's interpretation, a question to which each of them answers its own political point of view? In autumn, data on the number of infections in nursing homes led us towards closing down economic activities and schools and taking many other measures that helped improve the material situation of vulnerable groups and preserve many jobs. However, the task of all of us is to ensure a constructive approach and cooperation at least until the graphs and curves point to a positive conversion in virus control. Every death associated with covid-19 is superfluous and should not be. That is why we reiterate our condolences to all those who have passed away. At the same time, we are not sincere enough for citizens and citizens if we are unable to admit that the problem is much broader than the name and surname of the current Minister of Labour as the only one responsible for such a situation. As we can see, this is a problem related to the long-term neglect of the care of the elderly, their treatment in nursing homes and unrealized long-term care. All governments have fallen on this mature exam and we have fallen on it as a whole. Many words were heard in the parliamentary arena at the expense of social dialogue when adopting most anti-Korona laws. We always advocate social dialogue in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Social dialogue is not and must not be its own purpose, nor does it mean exclusive will and the victory of only one social partner. All anti-Korona packages have been coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, so this observation against the Minister on the inadequacy of social dialogue has been depressed, especially because it comes from the peres of those applicants who have been overlooked in the past in a normal situation without health and economic crisis themselves on several occasions and those who occasionally like to take on the role of one of the social partners. However, it is also true that in some solutions it is not always possible to achieve 100 per cent of the coordination between the social partners, but this does not mean that the solutions are not coordinated and that there is no social dialogue. The task of Members is to carefully weigh all solutions and to prevent injustices, abuses and the deterioration of the situation of the weak, we will sometimes decide differently from what has been presented to us. We are facing a situation that is complex, and unfortunately there are no simple answers to it. Therefore, we must not ignore the government's response to job conservation and economic assistance, which has been addressed in all eight anti-Korona packages. In doing so, the current minister has done his job correctly and is in no way able to challenge the many measures aimed at maintaining employment and preventing job losses and helping the weakest social groups most affected by the crisis. Minister Janez Cigler the King took over the resort in a sensitive time, at a time when there are no absolute winners. In order to prevent the deepening of the coronary crisis, many critics have been affected by the resort led by it. Some of them have been constructive, and some of them have been pursued only by a political struggle based on torn soils, and they are a matter of different views and different interpretations or even of creating the truth. The fact is that in the last year – mainly because of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities – we have managed to maintain around 300,000 jobs as a result of subsidisation of the waiting and subsidisation measures. However, some 467 million euros have been paid for both measures and the higher-power quarantine measure. Some 600 million euros were paid for family policy measures during the epidemic last year. We believe that today's interpretation debate will also be ideologically colorful. A few days ago, a heated debate took place on the parliamentary committee for work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities on whom it is appropriate to allocate public funds in today's crisis and why precisely certain organisations, which are – let us not forget – have been chosen on the basis of predetermined criteria. In the specific case referred to by the applicants themselves, a public call for co-financing of projects to assist the most vulnerable groups of the population due to the epidemic. For SMC, it is particularly important that the work of the Minister is lawful and transparent, which is also the result of his explanations to date on this observation. We do not want today's debate to encourage discussions on free decision-making on the birth of children and on the situation and rights of women in our society. Our position in this regard is clear and we do not agree on any different issues than the simple fact that comes directly from our Constitution, which stipulates that in the Republic of Slovenia the decision on the birth of its children is free. The rights acquired in this context are not the subject of this debate for us, except in terms of strengthening them, so we are already rejecting all the opposition thesis of today, which would artificially force the Modern Centre Party to the side where the voice of women and their free decision-making is not heard. But as a society, we are not mature enough to believe that only a world-wide orientation in a plural society can be an absolute reason for excluding civil society organisations in social processes, and in particular in the light of the diversity of their views and views. It is hard to imagine that in a plural state, individual civil society officials are taking part in civil society movements. Minister Janez Cigler King can't be an exception. Many current and past officials have embarked on a career path in various societies, institutions, businesses, trade unions. In a broader context, the latter is part of active citizenship and the participation of individuals in public decision-making. On the contrary, we would be led to a ban on the participation of one person in various social sectors and consequently to a ban on the transition between public administration, civil society and the economy. The diversity of experience is one that makes us rich and gives us the opportunity to take a wider look at our problems. In doing so, it is important to maintain integrity and prevent corruption and conflict of interest on the professional path of individuals. The interpretation reasons that in the case of the Minister of Brick King should have been different did not convince us. Interpellations against the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the Group of the Modern Centre Party will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u14	Hello! In Levica today we will vote for John Cigler King to be relieved of his duties as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The fact that Slovenia has 4,000 deaths due to the new coronavirus in third place in Europe can be attributed largely to the errors committed by Minister Janez Cigler King. The areas where the virus has spread most are two: the homes of older citizens and jobs, both belonging to the Labour Minister. Although everyone in this government seems to be unmistakable, John Cigler the King made several mistakes during his ministry, resulting in the fact that in Slovenia we had a record number of excess deaths in the second wave and that by the end of January more than 20,000 suppliers and suppliers in the homes of older citizens had infected more than half of them and 2,000 had died. This is 58% of all deaths due to covid-19 in Slovenia. In the first wave, the balance sheet was even lower than 77%. That's not normal. In the OECD countries, this share is on average around 47%, in the United States, where, comparatively speaking, catastrophically managed by the epidemic, home providers account for 39% of all crown deaths. I repeat, we have 58%. A brick king left the homes of the elderly in the first wave. Although the Minister’s professional association, i.e. the Community of Social Institutions, has repeatedly called and asked the Ministry not to listen to their concerns and demands. The Community has repeatedly called for the isolation of infected residents outside the home — in a hospital or at another appropriate location. In this regard, two urgent meetings took place at the request of the Left, where, in addition to the Community, social institutions were also invited to do so in the Health and Social Welfare Union and in the company Silver thread and some other experts invited. Since the beds were only a third full of beds at the time in intensive care and in hospitals, we in Levica requested that infected elderly people be systematically transferred to hospitals where they could be provided with the best possible care, but John Cigler the King, despite calls, did not ensure that infected residents were isolated from home. This meant that homes for older citizens continued to turn into emergency hospitals without adequate equipment for the care of patients and without personnel who would be professionally prepared for such treatment. According to internal data from the National Institute for Public Health, which was discovered in Mladina in mid-November, 85% of the tenants and first-wave residents were not treated in the hospital, of whom more than half were fatal. In the homes where they lived, they were settled in red zones, where, despite warnings of incompetence and inanimateness, the Bricker King landed. This means that these caregivers and caregivers never got to the fans, never got to the intensive care unit. We also did not forget the still unclear circumstances of deciding who was in the first wave of hospital care and who was not. Let us recall that in just a few minutes, the consulates found out which of the elderly will receive hospital treatment in the event of an infection and who will not. This was also done under the auspices of the King’s Cigler, who allowed some of the elderly to be denied hospital care without being informed or informed by their relatives. The Minister also slept over the summer and did not prepare the home of older citizens during relative summer silence for the second wave, which experts had already warned about in mid-June. For example, Bojana Beović warned on 17 June that the situation is dangerous and that we may soon experience a widespread spread of the virus. Nevertheless, the King’s Cigler decided not to issue uniform guidelines regarding the closure of the home and that he would transfer this responsibility to individual institutions. Contrary to the first wave, in the autumn months, the minister never issued an official ban on visits to prevent the virus from entering from the outside. As a result, the management of institutions had to deal with angry relatives on their own and take responsibility not to be able to visit their parents or their parents. Many, of course, were allowed to visit under pressure. Even in the second wave, the minister did not listen to the recommendations of the profession. The Section has already adopted on 21 July a conclusion that institutions that cannot establish a red zone should be assisted in establishing the possibility of isolation and that the Ministry should help these homes by providing out-of-house capacity. This decision has remained unreal for months. Only on 24 October did the Minister ensure that the cost of renting additional premises could be reimbursed. Lately, the country should have provided these premises in the first wave and by September at the latest. In his introduction and defense, the minister showed himself to defend himself with his fingers in the last 15 years, a disastrous policy of home management for the elderly, with which the elderly were increasingly and increasingly pushed to the brink of society. That's true, Minister, but you've pushed them over this edge in the last year. The King’s Bricker also failed to follow the expert group’s recommendations regarding regular tests. As early as September 27th, it decided that the homes should introduce mandatory tests for employees for 14 days. On 30 October, the expert group repeated this call and proposed a two-week test with rapid tests, but regular testing in nursing homes was not introduced until 7 December – two and a half months after the expert group proposed it. And if the expert group at the end of September advised further checks on whether they adhered to the instructions in their homes and wanted to increase supervision, the minister, on the contrary, allowed the work of covid positive employees in red zones. But the sick were not only coming to the homes of older citizens, but this was due to the completely inadequate management of the epidemic throughout Slovenia. The data clearly show that in addition to the common household, the most common source of infection is the job and that in the second wave of the epidemic there were significantly fewer workers working from home. The sudden cessation of quarantine decisions without the Ministry providing a real mechanism for the enforcement of compensation for workers who were at risk of being self-insulated has also prompted the spread of infections in a larger number of jobs. In this case, it was not the savings of the Gorenjeks or any other workers, but that these people had to pay the bills. There are also warnings throughout the epidemic that employees who are sick or at risk of contact with the infected are not motivated by fear of loss of income due to their undercompensation to stay at home; in this case they are entitled only to 90% and 80% of their salary. This has, of course, disastrous consequences in terms of preventing the spread of the virus, so it has replaced one of the critical points that could create conditions for the people of Slovenia to behave safely and not be financially damaged. However, there is no substitute for this, or workers receive it only if they prove that they have been infected in the workplace. And they can do so with a form that, while reporting injuries in the workplace, they must enter the exact date and hour of the infection, but employers in practice often do not recognize that they have been infected in the workplace and do not want to fill in the appropriate form for the application of injury in the workplace, which is therefore a condition for the recognition of a 100 % wage compensation in the absence of a hospital. It is completely absurd and unfair that, according to current legislation and practice, employers are responsible for infections in the workplace. Employers themselves, who in this case are in conflict of interest and without professional knowledge, assess when the infections have been brought from the outside and when they have been transferred in the work process. That workers and workers are presumed not to have been infected in the workplace and that, on the contrary, they only have to prove is an unfair transfer of burden to workers and workers and catastrophic management of the epidemiological crisis. In Germany, Austria, compensations are properly regulated in Croatia. As a result, they have no such problems. Employees who are infected are entitled to a full salary allowance; they receive it regardless of whether they have been infected at work or elsewhere, or only suspect that they are contagious or have been quarantined or isolated. After six weeks, the hospital’s regime will begin and the amount of the compensation will be reduced. This, of course, encouraged the employees of these countries to act responsibly, since it does not matter whether they get sick or not for their financial status. Perhaps the minister could have avoided these mistakes in part only if he had listened to the unions. Trade unions that are well aware of labour legislation and who are well aware of the situation in the workplace. But the government and the ministry run by the Bricker King have put the union dialogue on the sidelines. Although the Minister states in his reply to the interpolation that he is an advocate of social dialogue, he is lied to by numerous statements, calls and letters from trade unions regarding the lack of social dialogue and the non-involvement of workers' representatives in the drafting of anti-Korona legislation. It is clear from these publications that the Minister of Negotiations did not participate in the negotiations, that he sent teams without any mandate to negotiate, that the coalition had breached prior arrangements during the procedure, and that the Government had intervened in labour law without any consultation with the trade unions. Also in the National Assembly, the Minister proved that trade unions are not a relevant partner in the debate on anti-korona measures. For example, at the consideration of the eighth anti-Korona package, trade unions were invited to a meeting of the Labour Committee half an hour before the meeting, as the coalition knew that trade unions themselves were opposed to certain government solutions. If the Minister were committed to dialogue with trade unions, he would respond and be critical of organising work in the National Assembly, where the president of the Committee on Labour, Eva Irgle, from the Government's party, did not ensure that trade unions could actually express their views on government proposals; he did not do so. I will also respond to the Minister's assertion that when he awarded a number of concessions to private operators, he is the only one who has done something for the long-term care sector in Slovenia. It is harmful to leave the area of long-term care to private capital initiatives and the rules of the free market. The Ministry should first develop a public infrastructure investment plan in the area of long-term care. Instead, even before the budget rebalancing, where funds could be provided for public construction and investment, the Ministry also planned, in combination with the use of European funds, a direct call for private capital. Instead of increasing public investment in long-term care, the government now wants EUR 780 million for the arms industry and the elderly for private work. Above all, foreign corporations have been left by the Ministry to carry out long-term care; also where public homes can provide it. In some places, private homes will even undermine the planned construction of public homes, making it another step towards privatising long-term care and ensuring that 30% more expensive private homes continue to parasiate on public funds and on the money of the elderly. Finally, let me draw your attention to another mistake made by the minister. This year he did not align the minimum wage for students' workers in a timely manner. This year's minimum wage rise should also align the minimum hourly rate for student work, but the minister forgot to do so and damaged the students who worked for about 100,000 euros. This was a point on i, after the intervention legislation failed them in eight attempts to provide a fair compensation for the loss of income on the basis of student work. During this period, the students received 300 euros, whether they had lived before, paid food and an apartment with a student’s job or not. Finally, by disregarding the legislation on raising the minimum student figure, he deprived them of them for a fair payment. The National Assembly therefore adopted a decision calling on the Ministry to prepare by 12 March, by 12 March, a legal basis for the recovery of the damage. Until today, March 18th, the Ministry has not done so. Moreover, the Ministry of Unpaid Student Wages will not return. I quote: “I will not apologize to anyone for what I am, because I have done, because I do and will do.” End of quote. This is what Minister Janez Cigler King said at the time of the media intervention. But the reasons for the apology and, above all, for taking responsibility for the errors made during his ministry definitely exist. If not otherwise, the Minister should apologize at least for the falsification and lies he has given in response to his interpolation. I hope that he will respond to these allegations today and that he will not take the position of his ministerial colleague Zdravka Počvalska, who said, in the event of a disputed purchase of protective equipment, that he has nothing to explain to the public. On the contrary, the Minister, the National Assembly and the public are obliged to explain everything about your work and your place in the government. The objective of the opposition is to question your work, ask questions and draw attention to mistakes. The minister's constitutionally ordered task is to explain and answer to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Respectable interpelling, respectable Minister Janez Cigler King, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll start in 1414. On this day, March 18th, 1414, in the Land of the World, the farmer last settled the Korean Duke, Ernest Iron. I believe that the rational part of the National Assembly will today express its confidence and support to Minister John Cigler the King and will reintroduce him at a symbolic level; it may be in the early hours of the morning, but I believe. Minister Janez Cigler to the King, modest as we have known him for many years, or the word “incline” is not close, nor is the ministerial function held at all costs. He understands that he is a substitute for this function, but only in his own family is he irreplaceable, as he repeatedly says. Minister Janez Cigler King has strong political support in the government and the entire coalition. He defended and defended four of the eight PKPs in the National Assembly. While this required a remarkable engagement of him personally and his team at the Ministry, the commitments under the coalition agreement did not suffer and will be realized by the end of the term of office. At yesterday's meeting of the Summit of Parliamentary Parties with the expert advisory group for covid-19 at Brdo pri Kranj, where we were invited by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the rational part of the left opposition also made sure that the new coronavirus SARS-COV-2, wearing protective masks and respecting measures to limit the spread of infections is not a political issue. Colleagues and colleagues, we are political companions. Although we are also political competitors, we should never, ever, ever be enemies, ever. In recent times, calls for exclusion and hostility and even attacks on organisations or individuals have been increasing in Slovenian politics and society. The attacks seem to occur because someone has a different belief, values, and global view. This problem is being stepped up dangerously to the exclusion field and even to the physical attacks on the individual facilities in which individuals or organisations operate, and even directly on our fellow citizens. Aristotle wrote: “People do not meet as cattle on pasture, but to talk.” But how can we talk? The answer is given by the famous Cicero, who said that they had overthrown the empire because of the speeches. A French social psychologist named Gustave Le Bon added 20 centuries later that a greater pyramid than Keops could be built from the bones of people who fell as victims of the word. I don't want to, no one wants to go back a decade, to survive and fail social policy when someone has to blink for life because of the words they say. Unfortunately, Parliament's culture of dialogue is at a very low point, so it is high time we reset. Viktor Hugo's visionary thought – The day will come when the fields of squirming ideas will be the only battlefield – even after 170 years in Slovenia, unfortunately, there is no domain. Breaking ideas and arguments, numbers and calculations of the reinforced debate are increasingly drawing away from each other's accusations, accusations, blows under the belt, disrespect for the dignity of man, insults that also reach our families. I do not want to be a political judge, but every day the larger is the silent majority, who understands precisely when, with which state-level elections the level of culture of parliamentary dialogue has begun to fall sharply. After the resignation of the previous Prime Minister of the Government, we have put the country and citizens ahead of selfish party interests. We weren't interested in political calculations, we weren't thinking about whether it was worth it. We understood that we are Members of the people and that we are set up for the people. We can't even imagine having an electoral campaign at the beginning of the devastation of the deadly new coronavirus in Slovenia. Can you imagine? Those who declared the epidemic all day after the pandemic was declared and then fled, now they're telling us we crashed. A healthy farmer’s logic is — one with power, political power, and political calculation to escape, instead of helping people in the greatest distress, they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones And yet, in most of the readings, the proponents missed Minister Janez Cigler the King's target completely. Infectious diseases, Infectious Diseases Act, Epidemics, Pandemics, SARS-COV-2 virus, anti-infection measures belong to the Ministry of Health. The expert advisory group for covid-19 is with the Minister of Health. Aja, the Minister of Health, who has also escaped, of course you cannot interpret, but Janez Cigler the King will be just as appropriate, so you have made up your mind. And what can we take into our hands to control the epidemic at the time of our government? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Even the national plan for protection and rescue at the time of the outbreak or pandemic of infectious disease in humans was not used, which was then updated by the current government and adopted version 2.0 in July 2020. Colleagues and colleagues, the beach of interpellations in Novi Slovenije did not surprise us, as this plaza of the KUL Group announced at the moment that Karl Erjavec was going to burn in a vote on non-trust. Why has Mr. Janez Brickler been King for a year now? Because he was invited to perform this extremely difficult mission of minister because someone must carry out this mission in the country if we still have a country. It can't be performed by those who escaped the epidemic. Amazingly, history repeats itself. I know a few people and a few groups of people who also fled from another enemy almost exactly 30 years ago. Interpellation is indeed political, with the Constitution a specific mechanism of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister or minister. And precisely because the mechanism is established by the Constitution, the interpretation should be written on the basis of the proven Minister's violation of legislation or other acts committed by the Minister and the Minister. It's not this time. Colleagues and colleagues, with all three interpolations that have been put in, I have the parable of the Tower of Babel in front of my eyes. In 17 hours, you will be able to build the next floor of the Tower of Babylon — I am sure of that. I am trying to hear from the left side of the political spectrum – we are wearing masks, keeping our distance; and I am trying to hear from the left side of the political spectrum – we respect the measures proposed by the profession to limit infections. The fact is, in the last year, the government and the coalition have invested almost 80% of their time and energy in the fight against the covida-19 epidemic and in helping the economy and people. Yes, the economy, because if the economy goes down, we all go down. We're not ideal, ladies and gentlemen. We have also made a skirmish, we can also apologize and apologize, and we can thank all those who, in the name of love for neighbor, care for our health, for our citizens. We can also forgive. We don't blame you for calling us criminals in the authorities you call murderers. In the introductions, we also heard this among the lines today. You call us naked, and so on. In the dam, we take doctors who are designated by a co-signatory of interpolation by the lubricators. On your behalf, I apologize again and sincerely to them. Thank you for today's interpretation of John the Brick King, who will, I believe, strengthen the government and coalition even more. You can't just break us like that and in such a cheap way. The war must continue, according to the KUL, regardless of collateral casualties among completely innocent civilians, state officials. The case, at least one state official at the Ministry, an expert on EU funds drawback, has broken and left. It's just one of your actions, you know, you know, nothing. The Bulldozer attack on John Cigler King in an imaginary affair, in which they brutally charged with the Institute of Honesty and Catholics with gloomyness, backwardness and defending the married father, mother and child's family, should be understood as a distraction from the fiasco by filing and then withdrawing, reintroducing and finally with the clairvoyant collapse of the constructive non-trust against the current right-centre government. The KUL fiasco counter is spinning very fast. That was why it was important to throw a smoke bomb for the impenetrable retreat into a new battle, where an innocent civilian of Catholic values was killed entirely after the incident, conveniently on the way to the retreat of a broken KUL. In Novi Slovenija we admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the intervention against John Cigler the King has touched us. We wondered why it was the first interpretation in a series of three against the minister of New Slovenia. Why? There is no need to be a political analyst, only the flags of interpolation need to be identified. It is a feeling, I stress, that New Slovenia must today experience revenge for its extremely successful stoning stories, which result in the confidence of people in NSa. We forgive because the applicants don't know what they're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of KUL-unrealistics, so we answer with truth, with numbers and graphs. We're not going to say that others are bad, we're going to show that we're different, that we're close to people. We are tired of verbal attacks, of embarrassment, so we answer in Aristotle's spirit: “Politics has the task of talking and agreeing on the best solutions for people.” Everything else — again after Aristotle — is just like a cattle on a pasture. Colleagues and colleagues, it's time for a failed mistrust and it's time for unsuccessful interpretations. In order not to forget the Minister's thoughts in the Peterlet government, I quote: “There is also a time when the incapacitated are not capable of incapacitated.” Now's the time. And it is time to support Minister Janez Cigler King and the entire government, now is the time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you all for rejecting today's decision to relieve Janez Cigler King of his role as Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Dear Minister Janez Cigler King, I wish you a great deal of health, strength and wisdom in making decisions for the realization of our collective coalition commitments! We can do it in the coalition because only actions count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! It's been a year since the government's oath to Janez Janša. On the anniversary of a bad week ago, the four Presidents of the Ljubljana Psalms bowed down to all the victims of the epidemic. A sad anniversary, especially if we know that Slovenia has been severely unsuccessful in fighting a covida-19 in the second wave. In the DSOs, you have been killed by people who could still be among us when they take more appropriate and timely action. After us it is actually a difficult year, in fact very difficult and very special. That's why, Your Honor, your responsibility was so much greater. More than lighting candles and a media event, it would be appropriate for you to stand before people, tell them what you have done wrong; and sincerely apologize for these mistakes. But you obviously can't do that. There is a question of duality that can describe the functioning of this government and most of its ministers. Today we are talking about the duality of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The duality that has been fatal for many at the time of the epidemic in the management of this key resource. In Slovenia, nearly 4,000 people died as a result of the new coronavirus, a catastrophicly large proportion of them in nursing homes. According to the National Institute for Public Health, this share was almost 60% over the past year. Of all covid-19 deaths in 2020, 60% were DSO residents. After you euphorically celebrated the end of the first wave of the epidemic by flying foreign planes, something soon turned out that the euphoria of this government was flawed. We expected Minister Cigler the King to use the quiet that followed to take appropriate action in the DSOs, as the statistics of the dead already in the first wave clearly showed that it was a critical point. Despite the Minister's statements and the provision of preparation and cooperation with other DSOs, statistics show a completely different, very sad story. In the SAB, we are aware and we recognize that not everything is in the hands of the Minister of Brick King. However, it has not been heard that it would clearly resist the wrong and inappropriate measures, which fall under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. And we have never heard of him taking a firmer stand for his own department, especially for the people who depended on him. Slovenia has protected the population, especially the elderly, more than obviously worse than other countries, because by the number of deaths due to covid-19 per million inhabitants, we are still at the top of the world. On 16 March, the Slovenian number of thousands of 896 dead per million inhabitants was 883 in Germany and 990 in Austria. In this sad statistics, in which we are very high, the Ministry, led by John Cigler King, also bears responsibility for this statistics. The measures were late and inadequate. We also estimate in the area of long-term care that you have not successfully played your part. It is true, however, that there have been no appropriate steps in this area for decades and more, which is shameful for all of us, and that this area is only partly in your hands; yet in the SAB we have expected and heartfelt desire that you succeed so that each pensioner with his pension can start paying care in the home and quietly spend the fall of his life. This would also relieve the current and future working generation. Moreover, the Ministry of Labour under the leadership of John Cigler the King did not have much to say about the importance and usefulness of maintaining an appropriate social dialogue, one of the fundamental pillars of democracy and the urgent need to correct the social partners to take more balanced and actionable measures; unlike unilaterally formulated decisions and interventions by the government. That the dialogue was not properly conducted, there are also numerous cowardly eggs that you and the coalition partners have adopted in anti-Korona packages. This is also proved by the last subsets whose implementation has been delayed by the Constitutional Court. This is a provision in the seventh anti-Korona package, which introduces compulsory retirement in both the public and private sectors. That social dialogue has not been conducted also confirms the practice of your government when you are only listening to your partners, but not hearing them. And after all, we can't get past the affair that broke out the bottom of the barrel, and it was also the real reason for the interpolation – the honest affair. Really honest or double-faced? By allocating €130,000 of public funds to vulnerable groups, to the institution, the institution that openly promotes discrimination. This really surprised us, and it also disappointed us deeply. How can you allocate funds to promote social inclusion and to combat any discrimination against the institution that opposes abortion, inter alia, by publishing articles on homosexuality as a disease?Oh, my God! All of this is in direct contravention of the spirit of our constitution and the orders. In addition to substantive reservations, we also have political reservations. Among 135 NGOs, the Institute of Honesty is among those who have received public funds. Is this really about a naked coincidence? It is an institution which is ideologically, politically and humanly strongly linked to the NSI party and even its founder, and works there as a volunteer. In view of the numerous high ethical and moral standards of New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats, which you so enthusiastically stress, we are over this kind of action and diversion, to say the least, disappointed. Do you remember the former Minister of Economy at the time of the government of Alenka Bratusek Stank Stepišnik in a similar story? Due to a conflict of interest, he showed the right criteria and withdrew from the position, although there was also no illegal conduct. NSI President Ludmila Novak said this was the only right move. But today, when you have fingers in your marmalade, such a way of doing things is permissible. Duplicity or honesty? As one of the key representatives of New Slovenia, we expect you to respect the views of the party. This is not so much about funding a non-governmental organisation as it is about the great problem of clientelism that you have obviously taken over. We give to those who are ours and who are close to us. You have recently said that you will use interpolation to set the mirror for Slovenian society. We suggest that you remember your oath before a good year – to respect the constitutional order, to follow your conscience and to work with all your strength for the well-being of Slovenia. And that's why we suggest you adjust the mirror to yourself. In the SAB Group, we will interpellation of the minister, who should primarily care and protect the elderly, and, of course, allowed this crisis to be paid with their lives too, of course, supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I wish everyone a good day! Today's interpretation will discuss the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mr Janez Ciegler King. In his explanation, the applicant cited a number of cases where the Minister was supposed to be the main holder of responsibility. However, we cannot identify with all cases. Several attempts are made to show the responsibility of an individual where he simply cannot influence, but as a resortary minister he must assume part of the responsibility. The mere question of ineffective action in nursing homes, the inadequacy of social dialogue and the appropriateness of funding of selected NGOs raise questions about its integrity as a minister. Interpellation has thus raised several questions that will receive thorough answers in today's constructive debate. There is no doubt that we need to discuss the rapid spread of infections among the elderly in nursing homes. The fact is that old age homes are truly unsuited to the current requirements. For this reason, there are more providers in a number of homes, such as real capacities. Fortunately, we have been working more actively in this area recently, and we must also thank the Minister between us. If it is to be believed, Slovenia should soon be richer for five new homes for the elderly, and the numbers for the new units for the day and the temporary care of the elderly are encouraging. In the last 15 years, almost nothing or struggle has been done in the area of building homes for the elderly, so many were filled with the ideal place to spread the virus. Only one false and infallible step is needed by the individual who brings the virus into the home and causes unfathomable consequences. And this cannot possibly be the fault of only a minister who has not been actively involved in the construction or improvement of a home for the elderly in the last 15 years. However, it is his responsibility to coordinate and combat homes, which are already facing the emergence of coronavirus between residents and employees. The responsibility for late preparation for the fight against the coming virus should also be borne by previous government presidents who did not adequately prepare us for the potential outbreaks of communicable diseases. The reason for this situation and the unwillingness to deal with the epidemic is also the situation of stocks in protective and other health equipment warehouses against the epidemic. In fact, the former governments did not pay enough attention to possible epidemics or have failed professional and advisory services. It is also clear that the previous government was aware of information on the impending epidemic and that response and action were not appropriate. It is therefore right for previous governments to assume their share of the responsibility for the political crisis ahead of the outbreak. Interpellations are actually intended to expose the responsibility of an individual, a minister or an entire government. Let me get back to the interpolation. In the media, we were able to read a lot about the so-called controversial funding of the Honesty Institute. We have been able to look at several shows on this subject, and many journalists and media have prepared their contributions. If we refer to interpretations and working-body sessions for each news article, then the culture of Slovenian politics is really at the bottom. Of course, it is right to draw timely attention to the practices at issue. Any change in the tendering conditions and some type of non-repressive allocation of funds is inappropriate. If there have been irregularities during the allocation of the funds from the tenders, we have the authorities responsible for resolving these cases. The very indication of the possibility of inappropriate practice should have set off all alarms on the ministerial team before the intervention takes place. In the Desus Group, we look at the reasons for the interpretation against Minister John Cigler King with mixed feelings. We believe that as a minister who has taken over the exercise at a very ungrateful time and who has taken over an extremely demanding area, he is doing his work well and conscientiously. But the questions of responsibility for the actions he is aware of remain. And where there is evidence, there is also a decrease in confidence in the management of such an important resource. At the meeting of the Committee on Work, which dealt with the controversial financing of the Honesty Institute, we saw that Minister Janez Cigler the King was trying to do well and connectingly, and we cannot tell him the opposite. But to use the parable, Pilate's washing of time cannot remove responsibility, the Minister is responsible for everything that happens within the Ministry that runs it. The financing of NGOs is a very sensitive topic, as there is still a great deal to be done in the area of allocation of funds and later analysis of activities carried out in our country. Non-governmental organisations are undoubtedly an indispensable member of modern society, which repeatedly addresses challenges that the competent ministry cannot face in any way or to that extent. It is therefore extremely important that we maintain such social activity and at the same time ensure that those who have not yet had financial incentives receive funds for their activities. However, for all who have been doing their work for many years, we cannot, of course, stop the funds. We must not, however, resort to practices that allocate resources to those whose policies of action are closer to us. Undoubtedly, the Institute of Honesty is closer to the Minister of Philosophy than any other non-governmental organization. After all, he is the co-founder of the institution and is still actively involved in its activities, which is nothing wrong. We have been in Desus since 17 December 2020 by the opposition, which is aware that it is easier for many to tear down than to build and co-operate. However, it is extremely difficult to bridge the differences and work for the common good of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As an opposition, we must be the antipod that opposes the unreasonable and reckless actions of the current government. In the Desus Group, we believe that John the Brickler King is not the one who would have deserved an interpellation among the first. They are ministers of this government who should explain a number of decisions before the National Assembly. Therefore, the Members of the Desus Group will take their decision on the vote after the presentation of the views of all the Members' groups and after the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u22	Hello! First of all, it must be said that Mr. Janez Brickler the King does not deserve an interpretation. We know that this interpellation is a political act that essentially obscures the inability of the former KUL coalition to perform anything or do what Minister the King is doing now and what they were unable to do before or did not want to do before. If we compare family payments in 2020, they are the highest in the last ten years. And I wonder if the part of the current opposition doesn't like it that families get more than they got before. Should we get more migrants and those who destroy the Slovenian state? Certainly not, I think this is the proper functioning of the Minister. But surely our position is indisputably such and firm that NGOs receive significantly more. Only here can we say to Mr. Minister – Mr. Minister, stop it, give not so much to these organizations that break the Slovenian national and natural order and do advertising for the LGBT and I don't know what else, for feminism, for the Turkish coalitions, for the destruction of the Slovenian family, for the destruction of the Slovenian learning process and so on. I think that, Minister, as a great advocate of family policy, you understand that, and I hope that you will work in this direction as well. You've worked so far, but I think that this action needs to be accelerated and reinforced. Rumor has it you didn't do anything for old people's homes, which is not true. The last home for the elderly before the Minister's performance was built in 2005. Today we are in 2021, virtually 16 years old, or except for this time, since the minister has been in office, 15 years nothing has happened. An additional 30 million are now being provided for the construction of five new homes for the elderly and for the completion of two existing homes. Who's done this, say, in the last 15 years? Nobody. And the gentlemen of the former government, now mostly in the opposition, had the chance, but they did nothing. That is why it is not fair for you to throw complicated data in the face of the Minister. I think that the Minister has so far taken best care of our citizens, not migrants and various dissident, peripheral groups that are destroying the Slovenian state. The fact of democracy is that there is a need to take care of everything that needs to be taken care of by those who care for the slaves as well as a little over the edges. However, those on the edge and slightly over the edges must not take the lead and direct all other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia what they can and cannot do. This decadent variant, which has come from Western Europe, is destroying not only the Slovenian order, but the whole European order, the whole postulate of European cultural history, our thoughts, our development and what the whole world has made progress, because it came from Europe; I, and perhaps from elsewhere, certainly not from Islamic countries, who have largely taken the knowledge of the Phoenicians and declared it their own knowledge. I think that the Minister must also consider the option of returning migrants to the country of origin. When our Foreign Minister was recently in Europe, they discussed this. How much of this hack will we see, because at least in the Slovenian National Party we do not trust the intentions of the European Union. For the actual situation, particularly in France, Germany, Sweden, in Spain, shows that the European Union is a group of good-natured speakers who are walking over their heads only to bow down to migrants to destroy Europe. Probably because of some of your interests. However, gentlemen in the European Parliament are mainly debating and thinking about where they will earn an extra euro for as little work as possible. One thing is also that the Slovenian National Party has proposed, we have given an initiative to the Minister to grant social assistance in the form of vouchers, not in money. Because these vouchers could only be spent on certain things. Now that they get, especially the Gypsies from certain settlements in Dolenjsk, when they get the money, this money is not about what they've been allocated, it's not about food, it's not about schooling, it's not about medicine, it's about medicine, it's about medicine, it's about the boss of those groups who then buy, buy, buy, buy, and stuff, usually drugs and weapons, and they serve. The state is being burdened, for in the end it must recover those extreme things that arise as a result. I hope that the Minister will accept this initiative. Because in this way we can limit this to certain so - called unemployed, who then spend this money on cigarettes, for example. In case it's in the vouchers, you know what these vouchers can be used for. And control would be bigger as well. You'd know where these funds go, but not, let's say five packs of cigarettes a day and three liters of heavy alcohol a day, and similar things. Perhaps I should turn to the matter of the Ministry, not the minister, but the Minister must make order in his ministry, because there are too many people working there; too many people who are not qualified for their work. But there are many who take their work with their left hand, thinking not about what they would do, but how to expect the easiest way to retire. Then, when we got to the pension, we wouldn't want to retire, but we would be blackmailing by directives or by the wishes of some political parties so that we could stay ad calendas graecas and draw abundant money. In short, we'd have to pay the money plus 40 percent of the pension. This is unacceptable, and we will have to come together here in order to prevent these things. The problem in Slovenia is also social work centres. Social work centres are mainly, except for exceptions – exceptions that need to be commended – but they are mostly lost and devastated jobs, where they sit mainly on some lady who certainly do not solve problems and problems, but they solve themselves. Because they are not alone in these matters, and then they are putting it all away and pushing it away until there are various tragedies, as has been the case in Slovenia lately, which are largely the fault of incompetent employees – mainly employees – at social work centres. Of course, some ladies from social work centres prefer to spend their time on ugly, decadent, stupid, primitive spitting on representatives of the Slovenian government instead of doing their job. Such people, too, must be replaced and confused by the Minister, where they belong, out of such a service, and let them go, say, to a political party for counselors who supports their thinking. Social services, too. Social assistance can only help bridge the crisis situation, but it cannot possibly be long-term income, as the long-term income from this source is only support and promotion of laziness. Because they say why would I go to work if I can get social support all the time. We have cases in Slovenia where people on social support are 20, 25 and more years of work capable of people, but they do not want to work. But why work if, at the expense of the state and at the expense of those who work, they can pay taxes and live beautifully? Then do a little black work and laugh at those who go to work in the morning and go home from work this afternoon. It can't be that. The Slovenian proverb says that whoever doesn't work doesn't work, but with us, a lot of these are much better than those who work. This is fraught with common sense. This is at odds with the principles of normal society and we must not allow our society to go somewhere into decadent variants, such as in the western half of the European Union. We can't, and I'm sure the Minister is working in this direction, and he's working right, and that's why we're going to support him. Another issue that will need to be done is digitisation, which means the integration of all collections on the property status of applicants for social assistance. That's what needs to be done. This needs to be done to know where this money goes, who gets it, but not to get some people this money first in Kočev, then in Grm near New Town, and then in Trebnje – the same people with different addresses and no one knows who drinks and who pays. At social work centers, they just push it aside and say what I'm going to do with it. It may also be understandable, for threats to these people are sometimes severe, including death threats, so that many here are afraid and then let these things go their separate ways. It is therefore necessary to digitise, collect all the data and then publish, publish publicly and, of course, control it. In short, one more time at the end. We will not interpellate against Mr. Janez Brickler King, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. First, I give the floor to the proposer, Jerzi Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! I think it is good that, after all the views and even after the Minister's response, I should call. Yes, in fact, ministers of defense, even the coalition's positions were fully predictable to a certain extent. It is a pity that we have not heard these arguments in order to reject the allegations that have been presented to you as in writing as if you wanted to today also orally, and it is a pity that a large proportion of you have found yourself in some things that are not subject to interpretation that are not recorded in the interpretation that we do not read to you. This is just additional evidence that you just don't have any arguments, those concrete arguments that would cast off the obvious. I wish, Minister, that in this time of yours, you might be able to explain, but we are going to come to the point where you're either argumentatively rejecting the evidence or simply saying that we have the right interpolation proponents. You explain that when it comes to homes, you have done everything in your power. We have heard this a number of times today, but under the line we can only find that these powers of yours were obviously very weak because very little or practically nothing was done. You also thank the employees. Yeah, we definitely agree here. The employees were those who defended or did all they could, according to the situation. On the other hand, politics and you have not done your job to prepare them and, in an appropriate manner, to take the opposite of them, even in the light of all the calls. No one tells the minister that he is guilty of death, but under the line of death, or so large a proportion of the death of the caregivers is due to abandonment, failure to act, ignorance. You also said today, Mr. Secretary, that it was impossible to defend the virus. I wonder if that's true. Let us look again at the sequence of mistakes made, the sequence of ignorance, the sequence of non-action that was only within your jurisdiction or partly within your jurisdiction. Let's take another look at the outside units, so divorce the infected. On 17 March, the homes received the first instruction that users suspected of being infected would not be admitted to hospitals, so that the homes could provide care for themselves. This was the first instruction issued by that government. On 27 March, ten days later, a new directive was followed on the organization of work in three zones, i.e. disease, suspicion of infection and health. And your response, Minister, at the time, was "that it is important that the Community of Social Institutions, which unites all homes, follows these guidelines and follows them". We have been informed, however, that all homes or many of them, due to the specificities of construction or other forms, cannot provide adequate work organisation in order to prevent proliferation as soon as possible and to consider alternative solutions. In short, on March 27, you yourself realized that homes can't — they can't! – to comply with the guidelines that have been transmitted to them. You were aware of this, but you did not take care of a different solution in this place until later in the summer, when there was really enough time. And Minister, this is how you turned homes into nursing hospitals. Even though they didn't have the expertise, that they didn't have the proper personnel, and that you, from your statement on March 27th, knew that. I'm sorry to suggest this to you, but also given the saga that we're monitoring with vaccines, when there are even indications that the government was waiting for a vaccine because it was cheaper, I'm pulling a parallel with the homes, because we know that home care cost the country between 22 and 76 euros; 76 euros a day for the most demanding patient. If he takes the 14-day average, that's a thousand 680 euros. On the other hand, hospital treatment of €8,000 and €47 000 for the most demanding patient. These are hospital treatment numbers for a 14-day average. Under the line, if we look at it, in the first wave, hospital facilities were occupied by 35%, and the caregivers were not moved to hospitals, but the care of the sick moved to their homes. Now I know you're gonna say, anyone who needed hospital care got it. But on the other hand, we have testimony, including housekeeping, that the caregiver, when infected, is virtually everyone who needs hospital care; even if it is for a less demanding patient. I wonder why you're doing this. You can tell if the decision came from somewhere else not to move them to hospitals because it's easier for the country than it is for the country. I'm asking you. Or this is simply a result of a tweet published by the Government on May 27th, your government, a member of this government, and I will quote, “that we have to face the fact that many people, especially among providers of homes for older citizens, are living their lives slowly running out. Even with them moving to a hospital just because they are infected with a new coronary virus makes no sense.” So, if you do, they're running out of life. I don't know which of these two. I have not yet received a response to the summer sleep today, Minister; I have not yet received your response or argument as to why you have overheared the calls. Today it is clear that this summer sleep was one of the biggest problems or anomalies that this government has ever made. You have been drugged since that first wave, then the flight of the aircraft was June 1st, June 29th, and Dr. Beović's head of the advisory expert group warned you that it would be necessary to close the border with Croatia if not, it could be too late. On the other hand, in early July, you send a letter to your home that there will be no uniform direction regarding the closure of your home. So put the decision and the responsibility into your homes. The Community of Social Institutions has been making calls to you all the time – and you know it. You've received letters, appeals, petitions, petitions. I've got a few here. I believe there's another oral call coming to you when you've had some meetings, perhaps the same things have been told to you. I have written calls here. And Minister, look, 16. 7. The Community of Social Institutions, Amnesty International and the Memorial Society, all together, call you, or as they record, to be required by 1. 8. provide external units. I quote to you what they write: “The isolation outside the institution or center cannot be the subject of any delay or even improvisation when there is an infection or suspicion. [[…]] It is necessary to provide a system-wide framework that will provide for such action in advance and enable rapid response in all affected institutions and centres.” So, they tell you, it's a system of regulation. July 16th! And you don't take care of the system during the summer. She's not here. I wonder why at that time your focus wasn't on hearing what they were telling you from the field. I understand, you've been meeting with them, you've had meetings, you've heard them, you've been on the ground, but none of this has spilled into the fact that the response could be different, so that we could actually do something about it. This ignorance could eventually cut the conclusion of the consultative group, your consultative group or consultative group, which worked with the Ministry of Health on 21 July, and I will read it to you, “DSOs who cannot organise red zones should be helped to enable them to isolate asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic covid positive patients. Such homes should be assisted by the Ministry of Family, Social Affairs, by providing additional spatial capacity outside the home. We propose that the Ministry of Labour set up a working group to help the DSOs find solutions for the isolation of caregivers who do not need hospitalisation.” Here was a last train to take over the helm and take a serious approach to providing external units. You didn't do it. That's clear today. In the spring you knew, also from your statements, that the homes of these zones cannot provide. So the excuse to the past, to the past job failure, to go back to history, doesn't save you from being informed or aware that they can't guarantee and that you've been invited all summer to provide, and you haven't done so. Only on 24 October – October – provide the PKP5 with a legal basis for the reimbursement of funds, only for the reimbursement of funds. I told you, if we say it's three months too late, that's three months and three days later, as your expert group called you. And despair at home, when all their calls came upon you as a competent person, is also reflected in the fact that the Community of Social Institutions has threatened to leave the working group; and not because they would not want to cooperate. The exit was the last move to be heard and acted by the competent authorities. When I was reviewing things back, letters, it was in fact a statement of desperation or as they write themselves, I quote, “We hope that the resignation or withdrawal from the group responsible will awaken them to reconsider the establishment of external units for the isolation of the sick”. And you're the minister - nothing! Moreover, in the middle of August you sent your home in a letter – you know what?– that the application #Stay Healthy is coming and that you should load as many users as possible. Super – for older citizens, we know what the average age is for them to upload the app to their mobile phone. Minister, that's why I'm telling you that your basic summer assignment has not been completed. Equipped with all the knowledge of the first wave, equipped with all the calls, with appeals, with cries of desperation, it was by the Community of Social Institutions, there was no movement on your part. From here on out, I could say that the matter has already escaped control. But, uh, 28. 9. your assessment that new measures are not necessary. With this statement, you have even taken responsibility with your knowledge, with your failure to act, and then you say that there will be no new measures. Second thing, Minister: testing. It was the same story again. Inaction, calls, your ignorance. 27. 3, I have here a letter from the Association of concessionaires home for older citizens, where they write down what needs to be done. If only these three points were fulfilled – I know that you are certainly aware of this letter, you are finally the addressee – they will tell you that testing, which must be sufficient and periodically, is one of the basic very important things you need to do to prevent what happened later. And 27. 9. If you do not already hear the letters, you have the conclusion of the expert group, i.e., “in order to protect vulnerable populations in the DSOs you should introduce mandatory parallel tests for all employees for 14 days”. 27. 9. – You can't hear them either! 28. 9. your statement that there will be no new measures. 30. 10. The consultation group reiterates its call and proposes to start on 1 November. You introduce the test on December 7th, i.e. two and a half months after the call of the expert group. Now I want to know why you've been waiting for this. What was the reason? What was waiting again? Was he from somewhere at the top of the call to you, wait for the right test provider? What was the reason? I already have no answer to these two questions and you will find it difficult to find it, because the sequence is very, very clear; it was a series of errors in the homes for the elderly, which led to where we are today, to these numbers, Minister. Now we're going to spread infections in jobs. You have boasted of the measure of waiting for work and working hours. No one's going to challenge you, no one's going to do it. Anyone who was in the government would probably make a similar move. However, these were not measures that were sufficient or which were essentially intended to prevent the spread of infections in the workplace and, on the other hand, measures that had frozen jobs. I hope I'm wrong. But unemployment, what's going to happen to her? Minister, you can't brag today if we've kept jobs – we don't know! I hope I'm wrong, but you froze them. And if we look at the first case that's happening to us right now around us: Ormog. Nearly 600 people will lose their jobs. But you know what, Minister? With your actions from May 2020 to March 2021, you committed 716 thousand 72 euros to this same company – with your actions; on the other hand, you did not hear the opposition's calls, when we also submitted that when aid is given, the employer must commit in some way not to forgive workers. You didn't hear that, and you gave 716 thousand 72 euros to the company, that's data from Erar, and today there's 600 people on the road, and in March 2021 there's government money. Not to say that this same company has already received EUR 626 000 from the country in December 2006 and so on to encourage foreign investment. It is good that the state has to direct the money, but in the right way and also by the employer’s commitment to not forgive. And in the opposition – an ugly opposition that did nothing to help you – we brought an amendment to the table, and you didn't hear it either. So I wouldn't brag about freezing jobs, because today we don't see any measures to help entrepreneurs restart the car when things open. On the other hand, Minister, this. You know, in your written response to me, the highest increase in unemployment during this period is recorded in the age group of young people under 29 years of age, 26.5 percent. That's your information. And even more so that data on unemployed persons on copyright and enterprise contracts, you yourself wrote this down, you cannot provide me, because you do not have it, nor do you have the institution, no one in this country has information about copyright and enterprise contracts. But these people were all crying into the institution and then you boast, “we have saved jobs”, but you do not tell how many people you have dropped at the same time because you have not heard the opposition's calls to address this social group in the PKPs, which are on businesses and copyrights. And in spreading infections in jobs – what should you do without doing? Minister, I also ask you to answer me with the facts. The N.I.S. analysis showed you in November that a quarter of the cases of infection were related to the workplace. And where was the basic problem? Issue of quarantine decisions and refunds. I will not let go of why this government again during the summer time did not provide enough people and train them to follow contacts – you did not pay attention to this; they are other countries. But for comparison, see how they solved the matter in Austria and Germany. The procedure was simple. No matter where you are infected with the coronary virus, at work, outside the workplace, no matter whether you are suspected of being infected or quarantined, isolation due to contact; in short, anything. In all cases, the employee’s income has not been reduced. So, the same height, one hundred percent, and it's fully recovered by the state. Minister, now I'll tell you what you've done – I have to read because you're a hard man to remember. Therefore, if the employee has reached out to an infected person outside the workplace and has been quarantined, he will receive 80 per cent of the salary; if he has been in contact at the workplace, he will receive 100 per cent of the salary; if he has been infected outside the workplace and has to be in isolation, which is not quarantined, he will receive 90 per cent of the salary for the first 90 days; if he has been quarantined, he will be in contact at the workplace and not ill with the covid, he will receive 100 per cent of the salary; if the worker has been confirmed and the infection occurred at the workplace and he is sick, the first month will be borne by the company. And Minister, why did the infection spread in the workplace? Because of the system you've set up so we won't get it wrong: too. But this is where you didn't do your job. And then you said today that infection or coronary disease is considered a workplace injury and that the employee is entitled to 100 percent of the salary. But you didn't say the point. You've kept your mouth shut. And you have been silent, Minister, for the first time, that this has been true only since the adoption of the PKP7, which is 31 December 2020, and for the second time, that this 100% remuneration applies only to employees in health care and in nursing homes. So you didn't save the rest of the work environment or, in other words, let the virus spread in the workplace. And you silenced something else, which is very important, that in addition to leaving health workers and workers in nursing homes without 100% compensation until December 31st, because you were saying that if they can't infect themselves there, then you laid a condition that still exists. And this is if it can be very likely that the infection occurred in the work process. So, despite the proper use of personal protective equipment, as confirmed by the contractor by a written statement given under material and criminal responsibility. Germany and Austria on the other hand – 100 percent for everyone. Minister, these are concrete findings! We have also heard from your colleague or leader of the New Slovenia Group that there are no arguments and that it is a political struggle. No, it's just that I want to get specific answers from you to the specifics. If you don't have it, then you've done things very wrong and then you have to leave, stand down. For the conclusion of this first part, Minister, just this. I'm not saying that you're a bad person, that you're a bad Christian, that you're bad neighbors, Dad, I don't know what all of this is, we're not talking about it. I insist, however, that, on the basis of all the processed material I have at my disposal and have processed it, you are a very poor politician and an incompetent minister. As a result, the consequences are very severe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given to Minister Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm a well-respected proposer! I would like to start by thanking all representatives of the parliamentary groups for your introductory views on the proposed interpolation. A lot of important things, these, dilemmas have been exposed on one side; on the other hand, quite a few things that, I would say, are difficult to talk about, because they are particularly directed personally against my person. Such assessments, I think, are far too little known that they could simply give one valuable judgment and an assessment. I thank all those who have recognized the determination of this team of the Ministry of Labour, which you recognized in March 2020 as a vision and priority that you have recognised in the past year in a way that you have especially recognized the openness of this team for dialogue, integration, work with all stakeholders, which are covered by the very wide scope of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. A number of observations have been made, as in the written part of the interpolation, and in fact, I have answered everything in a written reply, and I want to show myself here the other way around, but still. Answers, arguments have already been sent to the National Assembly and you are already familiar with them, but today, of course, we will be able to talk about this and this opportunity, of course, I will take advantage of it. Maybe you'd start with the most up-to-date thing about a nursing home. In fact, at the Ministry, we have already concluded regional activities with homes for the elderly after the second wave; on 10 March we concluded them. We will also present these findings and conclusions today with the Community of Social Institutions on their board of directors and make proposals for a working group that was appointed before the second wave for the preparation of the protocol, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Health and the National Institute for Public Health. After these held regional conferences, performers assess positively in particular: for the first time, progress made during the management of infections between the first and second waves of infections. That's what the performers say, not the Ministry. Not only because of many educations, trainings in the use of protective equipment, provision of protective equipment, complementary recommendations of protocols and assistance to Ministry of Health coordinators, but because of all measures financed from anti-chronic packages that have enabled the possibility of new employment in basic and social care, additions for the payment of personnel under epidemic conditions, reimbursement of costs of protective equipment, the possibility of organising external red zones, etc. All regions, however, highlighted the great help of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, Civil Protection, which varied across different regions, the assistance of local communities. It was much easier for all homes that had the support of local communities all the time. Most of the problems they highlighted were with the provision of personnel. In the second wave, because of the well-known problems in the healthcare system, the level of aid provided by the healthcare system was much lower and, to a great extent, the Ministry of Labour funds of 26 million for two years and allowances for employees under the CAP. They also highlighted problems with spatial inadequacy at home and with the implementation of individual recommendations of the Ministry of Health. That's where I'm going. In demarcating or dividing powers between the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunity and the Ministry of Health, the working areas of the ministries are set out in the Law on State Administration and this provides for the Ministry of Labour to carry out, inter alia, social affairs tasks, and the Ministry of Health to carry out health and health tasks under this Act. The social issues I have mentioned include the protection of the elderly, in which the elderly, who are no longer able to take care of themselves, are provided with institutional protection provided by nursing homes, special social institutions, protection and work centres, training institutions and concessional individuals. This system of division of powers between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health in the care of the elderly is also an advantage, and at the same time, the weakness of the system can be demonstrated, if I may say so, by the time I am at peace, but at the same time it can reach the surface of special periods such as this epidemic. But I can say that we have been responsible to both ministries throughout the epidemic, in fact, concerned that this division of powers would not inhibit, on the contrary, to accelerate or make our response to the epidemic more effective. Now, something about this response to the epidemic. At the first wave of the epidemic, which we somehow count on by 31 May 2020, I can begin with some of the calls made by the Ministry of Labour before I take responsibility. On 26 February, the Ministry of Labour called on the providers of institutional protection for the elderly to take measures to prevent and control the spread of drip infections due to new coronary infection in neighbouring countries. At that time, the National Institute of Public Health recommended that the first patients with a confirmed infection should be treated in a hospital, if necessary, and that their loved ones should be in isolation for 14 days. On 27 February, the National Institute for Public Health sent instructions to employees in homes and other social welfare institutions to prevent acute respiratory infections. They advised regular monitoring of the health status of employees, alerted to hygiene principles and advised the implementation of group activities. On 4 March 2020, the first covid-19 infection and SARS-COV-2 were confirmed in Slovenia. On 6 March, the Ministry of Health banned visits to social welfare institutions, except on the basis of the professional and ethical assessment of responsible health workers, for example, in the case of dying or immobile residents. On 10 March, the National Institute of Public Health issued instructions for the treatment of persons suspected of being infected with a new coronary disease in social welfare institutions; it was also accompanied by an algorithm for the treatment of suspicion. On 12 March, the Minister of Health, Mr Šabeder at the time, declared a general epidemic in the country. On 13 March, the government swore in which I took the responsibility of managing the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. At the Ministry of Daycare for the Elderly, we have warned that these activities should no longer be carried out as of 16 March. We also invited them to draw up a plan to ensure a minimum number of personnel in the event of an infection in the organisation. March 13, 2020! On 14 March 2020, covid-19 claimed the first death victim. It was a provider of the home of elderly citizens in Metlika. I won't forget this day, because as soon as I took over the business at ten o'clock this morning, when we did the handover, I got a call from the headmistress of the home of senior citizens in Metlika about the situation in their home. This means that right after the handover, I have actually started with the team to solve the situations that they have already experienced and which have indicated the progress of the epidemic in their homes for older citizens. I will never forget the grip of teams home for the elderly or all social security agencies, first of all because of the lack of basic personal protective equipment. Directors and directors of my home literally cried on the phone and we had to start from scratch when we took responsibility for running this ministry. Nobody knew the virus, we didn't have the equipment, and we took responsibility. It was the first day. Immediately after taking over the business, after talking with the director of the home for older citizens in Metlika, I also called the director of the home for the elderly Kamnik and the Novo Mesto Work Centre, where the situation was stable and under control. Because it was particularly exposed that we should not be doing anything in the direction of retreat where possible. Let me say that since the first day with the expert group of the Ministry of Health and the Director of the House of Senior Metlik citizens, we have been looking for the possibility to move as soon as possible to the virus, to their separate unit, to the castle, they call them Command to stop the spread of infection to other residents and the matter has indeed been carried out as soon as possible and the effect has been good. On 17 March, the Ministry of Health issued instructions on urgent and careful monitoring of the situation in connection with the outbreak of covid-19, namely public health institutions, nursing homes and other welfare institutions. The Ministry of Health then announced that hospitals would accept those users of social security institutions for adult and work centres suspected of infection with a new coronary virus that would need hospital treatment and that basic health care would have to be provided by institutions or centres themselves. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. At the Ministry of Labour, we have issued instructions for the proper protection of all users and employees in the field of social protection, in which it is specifically stated that the guidelines and guidelines published by the National Institute for Public Health, the Ministry of Health, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and other relevant institutions should be followed. At the Ministry of Labour at the time in the DSOs, we also prohibited the adoption of packages prepared for residents by their own, the exits of the tenants and the admission of new tenants, and daily protection should no longer be provided. However, with the Ministry of Health, we have agreed that the healthcare provider must increase the presence of a medical team in the nursing home in case of an infection. The Ministry of Health had already pointed out the urgent testing of all residents in nursing homes if an infection was suspected. March 22nd, the Ministry of Health published standards for personal protection, protective equipment for treating patients with covido-19. In nursing homes, it is necessary to isolate them in the event of ill patients, in accordance with the instructions given at the time, and the caregivers must use the equipment provided for hospitals. At that time, I met with the Minister of Health to ensure the best possible organisation of work in homes for older and other institutions and all those who carry out home protection or other forms of protection. The following arrangements were concluded, i.e. on 22 March 2020. The Ministry of Labour is becoming a collection point for the collection of protection equipment and personnel needs, with changes in staff in case of disease replacement. Secondly, all institutional protection operators were presented with the opportunity to be educated for the correct use of protective equipment. Thirdly, the removal of swabs in nursing homes will be ensured. Fourthly, the Ministry of Health will call on health service providers in nursing homes to remain at least in the context of the contract they have concluded in difficult situations. As I have already mentioned, homes in the first wave of the epidemic were faced with an extreme lack of protective equipment to work in risky situations, resulting from poor preparation and response to the upcoming government health crisis under the leadership of Marjan Šarc. When the epidemic was declared, there were no minimum supplies of protective and critical medical equipment. As a result, I was forced to take on the role of crisis coordinator, so that, together with my colleagues in the government and colleagues, we could ensure that the homes had at least the most necessary equipment for a few days to come. I'll never forget the pressures of the people of that time. Never! And it was just basic, essential protective equipment. But we have succeeded with a good crisis organisation and with the participation of all stakeholders, including the Community of Social Institutions and Home Management, all teams, that all homes facing infection have been provided with protective equipment in a timely manner. It used to be hours, but we did it. In the first wave, the Ministry of Labour also collected data on the need for protective equipment in all social security institutions and provided them with regular Civil Protection. Local Civil Protection Headquarters delivered protective equipment to operators until the end of the first wave epidemic on 31 May 2020, when it was established that the supply and supply of protective equipment could be provided by the social security institutions themselves. Two months of extremely difficult circumstances and circumstances. On 27 March, the Ministry of Health issued instructions on the organisation of the implementation of healthcare services in social institutions. These were key instructions on the organization of three zones — white, gray, red — by separating healthy users, those suspected of infection, and those who are infected, but do not have a severe clinical picture. Special coordinators were set up to carry out medical activities and coordinators for healthcare and care, who organised a 24-hour consultation with a specialist doctor. In each social security institution, they had to set up a user handling team in case of a covid-19 outbreak. If the institution didn't have all the necessary personnel, it had to connect to the nearest health care facility. They also had to prepare a health treatment plan for each user. 1. 4. 2020 agreed with the IMF's call or recommendation that, if possible and with great caution, family members take older ones into domestic care. I warned that employees in some nursing homes with more infections – remember Šmarj pri Jelšah, Ljutomera, Metlika – are exhausted, so we tried to ensure the help of health teams in particular. 11. 4. 2020 has entered into force the Law on Intervention Measures to End the Covid-19 Epidemic and to mitigate its effects on citizens and the economy, the so-called PKP1, under which the Task Force of the Ministry of Labour has prepared a number of measures aimed at bridging or mitigating the consequences of the pandemic, and we have tried to help a number of different groups of vulnerable with solidarity supplements. 17. 4. The NIJ published updated recommendations for the treatment of the deceased after covid-19 or suspected him, 21. 4. NIJ sends an updated notification on the treatment and testing of employees and residents in social security institutions 21. 4. 30. 4. The Ministry of Labour is directing guidance to all institutional protection providers on the possibility of visits, as we have asked the expert advisory group and the Ministry of Health for views on the possibility of releasing the prohibition of visits to social welfare institutions in order to reduce the number of new diseases in nursing homes at that time. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. A number of single solidarity allowances have been implemented, paid, 25. 5. Homes for older, protective and work centres and training facilities have gradually begun to open up for new receptions under special conditions. This is also vital, since many older ones who were unable to live alone at home or to take care of themselves were waiting to be admitted to nursing homes. The epidemiological situation with regard to covid-19 began to calm down in Slovenia, so the release of systemic measures to curb the spread of the virus could begin. In the spring first wave, we were able to defend nearly 90 percent of our homes for the elderly together with our home crews. Intensive preparations for the second wave of the epidemic followed. This was from June to October 2020. The Ministry of Labour invited all operators to present their experiences and good practices in the questionnaire transmitted to them in early June 2020. The heads of home, with whom we were regularly in contact at the Ministry of Work via videoconference at the time of the first wave of infection, were already warned and asked to use time between the first and second waves of infections to adapt home in accordance with the recommendations adopted and for further education, in particular with regard to the use of personal protective equipment. At the Ministry of Labour, we also made a recommendation to operators to regularly measure the temperature of employees when they arrive at work, and especially to tighten the supervision of the implementation of all preventive safeguards. We also called for enhanced communication in cases of detected infections with the aim of providing immediate support. We have monitored and actively monitored the events in our homes all the time. I've been in contact with directors and directors and my team on a daily basis, and we've responded to their needs in an up-to-date manner. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health, we provided professional and human resources support in the event of infections. On June 15th, I appointed a working group to prepare a covid-19 plan in case of a second wave – June 15th! — composed of representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, NIJZ, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection and representatives of social workers. All recommendations for the control of first-wave infections have already been and are still in force, but at the Ministry of Labour, based on the experience of the first wave with the plan for the second wave, decided to combine and adjust recommendations and prepare adapted protocols for all services. Four working meetings of the working group to prepare a covida 19 management plan were held. On the basis of the experience gained by the operators also through the survey, the members of the working group analysed the measures and activities in the first wave, held several separate meetings with representatives of different services and prepared protocols for homes for older people, VDCs, CUDVs, home aid, CSDs, crisis centres and social security housing programmes. Dear fellows and colleagues, now you tell them they slept in the summers! On 9 June, we launched a public tender, on 9 June, between the first and second waves of the epidemic, with all the work and planning of preparing and supporting and preparing for the second wave, we also published a system-wide measure, namely a public tender for the award of concessions for the performance of institutional protection in nursing homes for an estimated 100 cities, which was recently implemented and published. On 9 July, PKP4 was adopted, which provided funding for additional staff in social security institutions in the public network for the provision of social security and health services of EUR 26 million over the next two years for the Circus 620 additional staff, with more than 550 additional employment in nursing homes. In doing so, we have ensured that this additional necessary human resources support will not be transferred financially to the caregivers and their families. When I visit homes for the elderly, this measure is mentioned to me as one of the most useful and successful. I have said many times before that the nursing homes have been fully fed. Dear colleagues, what has been done in this area in the past 10, 15 years or has it not been done? We have made sure that, for these two years, we provide acute, interventional assistance in staff, while at the same time preparing a systematic basis for the Long-term Care Act to ensure that staff standards and standards and comprehensive management of the care of the elderly are fully and systematically regulated. On 31 July, at the Ministry of Labour, together with the Ministry of Health, we examined additional solutions to what would be best for residents of the home if they were infected. We have studied the possibilities for infected residents to provide mobile units, which is what you have highlighted, a respected representative of the proposalr, and thus separate them from uninfected residents. We were also looking for an opportunity to help homes where infections occur by providing additional protective equipment. Noting the possibility of a solution with mobile units, which was originally presented by the director of the home for the elderly Nova Gorica, where I visited with the Ombudsman, I experienced a defeat in the media and political fields. I was being tried to move the older ones to the dumpsters. Then it is difficult to respond, because on the one hand, it is obvious to me that I did not make sure that older people were transferred to mobile units, to the extent that I must point out that we had in mind the most modern mobile units equipped to allow older people to move out of their homes. They're home. I tell you, and everyone who has contact with the elderly or the long-term care area, you know, is one of the greatest stresses for an older person to move him anywhere. On 22 September, protocols for the operation of institutional protection operators in cases of suspected infection were published on the MDDSZ website and previously forwarded to all operators. I must also mention that I have been regularly present at all communications from the Government, the Ministry and have regularly communicated with the general public about all measures taken on national RTV and other media and at Ukom's government press conferences. So I don't know how this impression you wanted to present that I was nowhere between the first and second waves of the epidemic. 15. 10. PKP5 was adopted, which also included a number of measures, important in terms of prevention and dissemination of covid-19 infection, additional human resources reinforcements in DSOs, with the temporary deployment of employees where there is an increased workload and increased need. All of these were provisionally allocated to 20 per cent of the hourly base salary. We have also introduced a direct user allowance for operators in grey and red zones of 30%. We have extended and introduced new measures that have maintained supply prices in nursing homes. From the Slovenian budget, we provided funding for the one-month mandatory strategic stock of personal protective equipment, co-financed personal protective equipment for social security employees and covered income losses due to unoccupied capacity and withdrawal from home care. With effect from 19 October 2020, an epidemic of infectious covid-19 disease was declared in the whole country. This was the so-called second wave of infectious disease. We have witnessed its rapid and exponential spread among populations far beyond normal disease or incidence. The regional teams, the Co-ordinator's working groups for the prevention and control of SARS-COV-2 infection were then and are now providing professional support for the effective management of the risks posed by the presence of SARS-COV-2 in Slovenia. In August 2020, we set up this working group, and since then, it has been providing professional assistance to social protection institutions in addressing the challenges associated with the presence of this virus. They are supported in the preparation of fur plans to deal effectively with the virus, and each home for the elderly has this crisis plan, in the appropriate establishment of premises according to the current epidemiological situation in the social security institutions, in training for the proper use of personal protective equipment and in the planning of measures to prevent the introduction of the virus into the institution or measures to infect an infection in the institution. On 5 November, regular videoconferences were resumed for nursing and special welfare institutions, VDC, CUDV operators and home aid providers. On the same day, we published a directive on restrictions on the contacts of residents and the abandonment of the industrial area, which stated, inter alia, that the Director should inform the tenants and employees of the decision. 19. 11. Madam President, I have called on the Directors and Directors of DSOs to provide regular preventive testing for all those working with them for the purpose of controlling and preventing the spread of SARS-COV-2. The regulation mentioned by you is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and was then adopted in early December. And that order, unfortunately, covered only health workers. I myself have called for that, given that most entries are for older asymptomatic origins, it is crucial to ensure testing not only for health personnel but for all employees in the homes. I have pointed out that funds for preventive testing will be reimbursed from budgetary resources, which means that this cost will not impose an additional burden on the home for the elderly or the caregivers or their relatives. On 23 November 2020, we organised a meeting with the Community of Social Institutions on some open issues concerning the implementation of rapid tests under the Ministry of Health. Practices were different. On 9 December, the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia issued a public invitation to choose public works programmes to help mitigate the effects of the covid epidemic for 2022, which provided additional staff support in social security institutions and hospitals. The inclusion of 950 persons, the available amount of €4 million, was foreseen. 11. 1. 2021 on the basis of the PKP7 is paid the solidarity allowance for pensioners, 3. 2. 2021 Act PKP8, which introduces important new measures in the field of the care of older people, regulates the reimbursement of the costs associated with oxygen treatment in people with coronary disease in social and educational institutions. One of the more important measures in the CAP8 is the implementation of the extended treatment of those who have undergone covid and are not yet able to complete or cannot be placed in the home environment. From 27 December to 7 February 2021, 19,000 100 people over 65 years of age and 25,000 who received one dose were vaccinated against the coronary virus together with one or two doses of the vaccine. In February, let us expect that those who later expressed interest in the vaccine will be able to be vaccinated, as well as immediately those who have returned to their homes. It is estimated that after receiving the second dose, it will be with all those who have already experienced covid-19 protected about 70% of the employees. 4000 300 employees in the DSO had already undergone covid-19, with both doses vaccinations of 2 000 62 employees and a thousand 221 with the first dose. On 12 January 2021, about 13,000 people were vaccinated in homes and social welfare institutions. This is also the main bearing exit strategy, i.e. vaccination. However, I can say that even the rapid tests, as I have shown before, have actually begun to calm the situation when we look at the beginning of November, which is November 19th, when I issued the call for rapid testing, the number of deaths in nursing homes has begun to calm down and the trend has turned down and vaccination is even more intense, and the situation has calmed down well by February or March 2021. There is something else about the use of fast tests, because it was particularly exposed, why only then — or I don’t think that we were completely caught on date. You are quoting December, but I have shown you now that I have already called on 19 November, but I do not have the authority to order this, and the profession has not been unified for a long time regarding the use of rapid tests. Extensive debates were held throughout Europe on their quality, reliability, utility, as soon as there were relatively verifiable findings at the international expert level on the quality and use of rapid tests, and I called on older people's homes to use them; and this was 19. 11. 23. 11. As I have already said, we had a meeting with the Community of Social Institutions, an important meeting on open issues concerning the implementation of rapid tests under the Ministry of Health, because this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Perhaps even before I move to the second most exposed area, namely the spread of the virus in the workplaces, I would stress this because it has been repeatedly exposed, that it should not follow or follow the recommendations of the section of the Ministry of Health. Look, it's not that it was them or that there's an entity that gives us instructions and we either follow that or we don't. Together we follow during the worst epidemic several times, even now, for quite some time now, regularly on Wednesdays and together on their recommendation we draw up measures that the Government will then confirm. With regard to trust in the management of the home for the elderly that they will best assess, together with local and regional coordinators, with representatives of the local community, civil protection, all relevant stakeholders at regional or local level, I think we have made an optimal decision from a professional and organisational point of view. We have estimated that local or regional expert teams will be best placed to assess the local epidemiological situation and to decide accordingly on the level of action in a particular welfare institution. Remember that I was obliged and still owe as Minister of Labour to ensure, and here I have a number of recommendations, calls by the Ombudsman, Silver or all other relevant stakeholders, to ensure as much as possible the normal life of residents of the home in the specific context of the epidemic. As Minister, I must always be careful to maintain the balance and proportionality of the measure, because I know that, in the first place, I think of the most vulnerable ones for which these measures are, and on the other hand, I must actually take into account the different aspects, including the different sometimes professional views, so that we do not harm those we want to protect. I may be a little longer in this first advertisement, but I think that's what we've been waiting for with specific dates, data in this political debate on my interpretation. With regard to measures to combat the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus in the workplace, I can tell you that the Ministry of Labour, even before I take responsibility for it, has published explanations and recommendations to employers regarding the assignment of work at home and other work in the event of exceptional circumstances when the life and health of the employer is at risk. It has already been pointed out that employers in this case have the possibility to determine the second type and whether the place of employment is also without the worker’s consent, but only for the duration of exceptional circumstances, and it has been explained what employers should be aware of in this regard, in particular in terms of ensuring adequate regulation of the relationship with the worker. On 13 March, we published key information and answers to frequent questions about the enforcement of rights and obligations in the working relationship in times of special circumstances, which also covered to a large extent the general arrangements for the assignment of work at home and other work. The document was subsequently completed several times, as the issues were, of course, lined up throughout the period. On 20 March 2020, the Law on Wage and Contribution Intervention Measures was adopted to provide measures to protect the situation of employees and to facilitate the situation of the economy. It provided three options: partial reimbursement of paid salaries to employers who are temporarily unable to provide work to workers due to the consequences of the epidemic; secondly, the remuneration of employees who are unable to perform work due to a certain quarantine due to the epidemic; and thirdly, the suspension of the payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons who do not have other employees and fulfil those conditions in the law. This was the so-called Zero Intervention Act, which my predecessor had put into effect and was adopted on 20 March. On 2 April, PKP1 was adopted, which upgraded the solutions already adopted, allowing for the refund of temporary waiting for employers. The amount of remuneration paid to workers who were unable to perform labour due to force majeure was equal to the amount of compensation paid to workers during the temporary waiting period, an amount of 80 per cent of the salary. According to the new report, workers who were forced to stay at home for the protection of children are also entitled to 80 % of their salary and no more than 50 % of their salaries as provided for in the system law. Many other measures have been taken in the CAP1 and CAP2, 28. 4. when a new institution has been introduced to compensate for loss of employment at the time of the outbreak, and to ease the conditions for the enforcement of remuneration and the elimination of certain uncertainties. On 4 May, we drew attention from the Ministry of Labour to the guidelines covid-19 on returning to jobs, adapting jobs and protecting workers published by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work in order to help employers and workers to remain safe and healthy in the changed working environment. The Guidelines advised employers to re-evaluate the risk and take appropriate measures in the light of the changed circumstances before returning to work. In addition, the guidelines provide specific advice on how to reduce exposure to the virus in the workplace and how to safely initiate the work process after the company has failed for a period of time. 22. 5. Through the portal for safety and health at work, we have put in place three new OiRA online tools to assess risks in the field of safety and health at work aimed specifically at waiters, journalists and teachers. We have developed tools in cooperation with the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work. On 29 May, PKP3 was adopted, where subsidisation of reduced working time was also introduced. And with these PKP1, PKP2 and PKP3, we have laid the foundations for the preservation of almost 300 000 jobs, which I think is a very valuable achievement. This government and the Ministry of Labour know that every job preserved is still much cheaper than if it were to be re-established after the epidemic. This is particularly known by employers, especially those who have kept their jobs and their relatives. With regard to the possibility of remuneration for quarantine workers whose employer will not be able to organise work at home, we have adopted a solution in the PKP4. This, a respected proponent or representative on behalf of the proposalr, I think you have highlighted — you have called it — as a complication. But for this very solution in the PKP4, we have sat for several hours in the negotiating group with the economic and social partners, with the social partners in the negotiating group of the Economic and Social Council, I apologize, and agreed on all these levels, all with the aim and purpose of making the most fair provisions, because it is necessary to take into account both those who worked and were exposed, as those who did not work for different reasons, than those who were unable to work for disease or force. Thus, those who have been or are involved in these social dialogue processes have experience, what this means and what value this has for the measures taken. I think that the result, however, was one optimal system of organisation of work or absence from work at a time when the economy – and employees – needed this most. For now, I would have stopped here in this first part. With regard to current forecasts of closing some of the exhibitions of companies that you have highlighted in your response to the positions presented by the groups, let me say: as in the case of Gorenje – and we will all remember Gorenje in the first wave of the epidemic, when we went to Velenje with our colleague, we talked to the union, representatives of the labour council, he also talked to representatives of the company – we will be at the Ministry of Labour and I can also provide for other colleagues, who are not here, we will do everything to keep jobs. However, I think that we all know together that the business decisions of private companies are their free right, if we are still having such a hard time. It is my job to ensure that the labour market is made available to as many job seekers as possible. I can say that the end of this first intervention is that, for the time being, with some moderate optimism, I am looking at the trend in the unemployment record, because somewhere since mid-February, at the end of February, the trend is actually positive and we are currently somewhere at 84 000 unemployed registered in the unemployment register. This is still too much, we are more ambitious, but we must be aware that we are still at the time of the epidemic, which has been extended, that there are still a number of measures in place for the labour market. These data, which I have also mentioned in the opening speech and now mention, show that government measures are effective. I can say another message to the economy before I turn off my microphone in this part, that I have already proposed to the Government and that it will be decided that the bearer measures for the labour market will be extended by at least the end of April, as is the case with bearer laws, intervention laws. We have estimated that there is a need for this both for businesses, for employers and for self-employed workers, a number of issues have probably already arisen to you in this regard and we can signal that we will also take care of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u27	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer, Jerca Korča, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u28	Dear Minister, thank you for this response. I'm grateful that at least you've really stepped into talking about the obvious, and somehow you've confirmed what I'm telling you all along, that you have no argument. If you take the argument that you did not set up external units. You know what you said: “You know why? Because I have experienced a media coup." This confirms my thesis on liking, beautiful saying, and this has prevailed over proper, timely action. If otherwise, Minister, discard all these letters that you have received to the Ministry on the grounds that the guidelines on the provision of three zones are impractical in practice. You also said that on one occasion at home in the first wave you showed how quickly you stepped into action and ensured an external unit. Yes, but in summertime, 16. 7th, it is particularly true that the Community of Social Institutions tells you that a systemic solution needs to be found. No one can tell you this March-April when it was probably necessary to turn around quickly, because the system solutions were not made because the virus surprised you as well. Last night, I was watching your hearing 13. 3. so that I can justifiably state how very confident or how very familiar you have been about what will happen later or how this virus will proceed. And if you want to or if you are trying to say repeatedly that it was the government of Marjan Sarca because there was no equipment, because thank God then you came and quickly stepped into action — Minister, 87 died in the first wave in nursing homes. But the second wave was entirely your responsibility, and with one word you can't blame anyone else. Summer sleep or summer preparations should be your occupation, and these are obvious. And today you're saying that you didn't provide external units because you had a media coup. You know, as Minister, you can't always talk about what the media will say, what the public will say, but you need to take the right measures, which are justified, before the public, and explain why we will do so. If you also had on your side the Community of Social Institutions, which unites social institutions throughout Slovenia, you had on your side Amnesty International and anyone else, you could do so. I mean, if that's your only argument, Minister, then the responsibility here is clear. You were talking about preparing for the second wave. Summer. I wrote a summary, but I can tell him: videoconferences, homes were invited to prepare, we made a recommendation on temperature measurement, we monitored the situation, we were in contact with homes, work meetings were held, surveys were conducted between homes, we studied options and we were looking for options, if for a short time, we were working together. Nice, but there was no action, nothing was done. Minister, in testing – let's go again. How ironicly you said, Minister, "I, as Minister, had already called on homes to test" on 19 November. And then the curve kind of went down, you say. I'm gonna start calming down. Minister, why didn't you call on March 27th? Why didn't you call on October 19th? Why did you not call earlier if you claim that only your invitation began to calm the curve? I'm not just talking about quick tests, I'm also talking about PCR tests, and there was this possibility. And, Minister, 19. You called the 11th home, but 25th. 11th, that is six days for your statement, I quote you from the Director of the House of Šmarje pri Jelšah at the government press conference, “We are still waiting for the exact information, and we welcome this decision”. That's what they say. You invited them without any information, without providing anything. So great, if the call worked, we'd have called sooner. But the fact is that the testing began on December 7th, and the fact is that you have been called upon to do so before. Now you're blaming or saying it wasn't in my jurisdiction, it was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. We didn't hear you protest publicly if someone else forced you not to introduce the test. We have not heard you say that we would be committed to providing funds for PCR testing, if necessary, because of the rapid tests, today we also know what reliability they have, given what this government has purchased. So, Minister, it's hard to make excuses for calling on November 19th. Concessions are a systemic measure, you said today. In all this part that we had with our homes, we had time to accept the tender for concessions, because it is a systemic measure. Yes, but if the call for concessions is a systemic measure, then I don't know. But then all the governments have taken a huge amount of systemic action before you. As you know, 1993 – we know what the situation was – and in 1997 the Ministry prepared a strategy to increase capacity in nursing homes, and it was then envisaged that the country would cover at least half of the capacity gaps by 2005 by granting concessions. We can talk because, of course, we were not there at the time, or we were very young, why the state decided to go along the way of awarding concessions instead of strengthening the public network. This was obviously a social arrangement, and this has been the case since then. However, if concessions are a systemic measure, from then on governments have taken many systemic measures. And then the analogy has to be withdrawn, not to say that there was no investment, Minister. Then it must be acknowledged that if I draw your analogy, investment investments have fluctuated over the years, but that they ranged from 14 to 90 million a year, taking into account, of course, public homes and concessionaires together. Then that's how it's gonna be. Just that we're on the same line as we're looking at. Minister, do you know what the saddest thing about this award of concessions is? That you chose a home in Vertojba, which was built – the former government had the desire to transfer from the DUTB, because there was this built house, which was just waiting for a smaller completion, into the public network. But you decided to sell it to the private and then you awarded it to him. So where we would have an opportunity to provide a public home today, you went the other way. In an article published in October 2020, it is very well said that the country has broken its promise and will sell to the private instead of reviving the centre with public budgets, 120 beds and 38 supplied apartments. Then you gave this private a concession. And the minister, to boast very much about concessions – I don't know. We all know how much more expensive care is in the home with the grant of the concession, by 20 percent. And the award of concessions is not a systemic measure, but the systemic measure is that we get a long-term supply law that provides for choice; the choice, where and how a person will survive the age. It's not just institutions, it's a lot of other things that come along. I am so looking forward to what you, as a minister, will bring in, because it is a promise that by the end of the year it will still be in the National Assembly and that this will be a choice. So, Minister, look, you haven't responded to the outside units again, except that you gave it up, because the media defeat was on top of you, and we have the result of the death victim; you didn't explain the test or say you were 19. 11. you called, and it's a hook. It is not the minister's job to ask him to meet for videoconference, including the minister's task, but the prime task of the minister is to be a decision-maker, to stand for this decision, to explain and push the way or to take measures such that the operators can also implement them in practice. But you sent a letter to your home – arrange three separate zones. Homes tell you all the time through all the writing that they can't do this, that it's real and impossible. You insist on this instruction, and you do not provide external units because you were afraid of the media pogrom because you wanted to be liked. That's why I'm saying you're either a bad minister or you haven't been acting as a minister. Besides, I didn't get an answer here either. Why different compensations? Why, as minister, you didn't draw the line and say 100 percent compensation for everyone, regardless of the cause of the infection. This was done by other countries, but we made the system complicated and paid 80 percent, 90 percent of our wages, so that the employees and the incentives were not really stimulated to stay at home because someone with lower income went to work to spend and harvest the month. But you were responsible, or you should make sure that such matters were prevented by marriage, and you were responsible, of all others. And there was no media stunt. But today you say it's your fault that we didn't settle these matters on the Economic and Social Council, if I understand you correctly. No, no, no. That's what you said. You've talked about this a number of times, and there's been this kind of agreement about different compensations. These two things, Minister, are still, or these things that I have just told you, still unanswered. So that I don't go on with any other evidence, because I'm focusing on the key issues, and I'm asking for an answer here at least. If you don't have one, say, "I don't have an answer", or I'll understand, "the outside unit wasn't assured because I was already afraid of the media pogrom." The Economic and Social Council is responsible for the compensation, and for the testing of the Minister of Health, for the candy and for the treatment of all the supplements or lump sums I, Minister Janez Cigler King, deserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have an interpellation, so to speak, some institution of parliamentary control, where the motioner asks a question, is said to the minister, whom he should at least answer. As far as he's concerned, anyone can judge for themselves. Already the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups that advocate a minister in style that this minister is the top 3 minister of this government, or that minister is the surprise of this government, tell us much about their own arguments about how to reject some of the obvious. Many of the parties in this government have in the past worked as a so-called shadow government. Perhaps it would be better if we stayed in the shadows, because today we have a government in the dark, if I may say so. So the measures are actually completely wrong. I would like to ask myself from the Minister himself, who, unfortunately, is not here right now to answer the questions I'm going to ask him. The first issue will certainly be social dialogue. We know when Nova Slovenije was in opposition, the social dialogue for her was the world. At various sessions of the Labour Committee, we have always listened to the importance of the ESS itself. And where is social dialogue during the government of John Janša and during the ministry of John Cigler King? For the first time, the Economic and Social Council met 15. 5. 2020. It is said that more than two months after the appointment of the current government. During this time, the current government has adopted and also proposed the CAP1 and its novelty and the CAP2, which is very much concerned with a social and economic policy. It is said that at this time the Economic and Social Council has not been formed at all, except to consider the matter. So much for the social dialogue itself under that government. We do know, however, that the Government of these eight representatives generally appoints them after some automaticity, because it knows what ministers are in this government. And while trade unions have been alerting employers for the whole time to take these measures, of course it was not in the interest of the Ministry and the Government to start working, especially because their ignoring them would then be even more reflected in the media, it is said, the proposals of both employers and trade unions. Even after this ESS was appointed, we can see how it worked. As early as September, PKP5 has refocused its attitude towards the social partners. You started the dialogue two days before the adoption of the law in the Government, some of the articles that have already been harmonised were renegotiated and some of the articles have not been taken into account. And then the unions also protested that these negotiations had been abandoned. Once again, as much as this government is up to social dialogue. The findings, however, which were in the PKP5, are similar to what the opposition has been giving all the time, and I will actually read what the trade unions say to this government: "Preparation of legislative proposals has begun too late, the result is poor preparation of materials, non-coordination between departments, many revisions and changes to the original proposals, which have prevented quality work and the preparation of professional and well-thought and well-founded solutions. PKP5 should only contain provisions directly relating to the prevention of the spread of infections and the elimination of the consequences of the epidemic, but not to provisions of a systemic nature which have no connection to the covid.’ In fact, things that we have been reading all the time in the opposition, and here we also see why the Economic and Social Council has not been successful. But not only in intervention measures, but also in the law on long-term care and the law on demographics, you actually passed the ESS. In fact, at the demographic fund, you first accepted it in the government, only after the case has been adopted would you have even spoken to each other. The CAP6 case is similar. With PKP7, where you originally wanted to freeze the minimum wage, where today Minister Janez Cigler Kráł boasts that he has raised the minimum wage, although it is an automaticism, and in fact, according to the formula set out in the government of Marjana Šarca, only to sign and calculate, then this was withdrawn, and you have actually imposed compulsory retirement with the amendments. Now I ask you – otherwise we only ask you – because the minister is not here – why are you in the amendment itself when you have supported a matter that was not on the Economic and Social Council. So, as important a matter as compulsory retirement, in your opinion, it was not important enough to put it on the Economic and Social Council. And look at the fraction, just like the half of the cases in the PKPs, the Constitutional Court holds the case against you. The minister boasts about how this will help young people when we said why they should not make a bodyguard if someone forcibly retired a worker so that they could only retire him if they hired a young person at the same time — you did not agree. On the other hand, talk about how this will help young people. The PKP8 is similar. 23. 1. The government will suspend negotiations on the ESF for an indefinite period and then adopt a bill in two days; it is said that once again past the Economic and Social Council, the one that you, when you are in opposition, are so fond of. What are the consequences? In your opinion, job conservation, however, we see what has actually happened in practice. Right here, in fact, in the opposition, we have drafted an amendment for almost every PKP that if an employer benefits from waiting for work or shorter working hours, then for so many months and so many months he must not forgive the worker. As I have already mentioned, in the List of Marjan Šarca we have actually prepared this matter for every PKP, but no, for you it was irrelevant and now we actually see what is happening on a weekly basis in places in Slovenia; in Ormož 500 employees, in Slovenj Gradec almost 500 employees. Thus, in one good week, thousands of unemployed people were raised in Slovenia. Now, on the one hand, you speak, the measures have helped, and when there is forgiveness, you say it's a business decision. So you decide if you're so good and your actions are so good that you've kept your jobs or not. Or now that someone's fired, it's a business decision. As far as young people are concerned, you've actually completely screwed up what we've been saying all along. The employment age of up to 29 years is now more than 27 percent higher, more unemployed than it was in 2019. So, here are the numbers clear and also your responsibility and how much you care about young people themselves. Today, something has already been said about copyright and business contracts. With no PKP, you didn't think you were important enough to even deal with them, although when we talk about copyright contracts, business contracts, it's mostly for young people. You've forgotten about students and students, too. Two days ago, when we had Minister Kustec's interpretation, she made a fine excuse to say that this is an area that is not under her department, but that must be answered by Minister Janez Cigler King. I so hope that today he will answer why young people in all the CAP have actually been released. As far as students are concerned, the government has taken a decision on work. They are young, say students and students, who lost more than €75 million in student work, €10 million less in scholarships, and €3 million less in student nutrition. The Eurostudent survey suggests that the student needs about 500 euros a month, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has spent twice as much as 150 euros on young people. That is what 8 million euro means together. For what amount, Minister Simona Kustec has also expressed herself most nicely at her interpretation, quote, "for the sake of the tribulation of this crown of time, because of some symbolic attention we have given them this." So, not to survive, because students also have to survive, you symbolically gave them €150 twice. So eight million euros in all these billions, although more than 20,000 students are in the year – I think 2019 – earned 300 euros a month. Thus, they have earned at least 300 euros themselves, and you have spent 300 euros on them throughout the year. Most likely they survive with a symbolic life if I express myself, as the Minister says. While you've completely forgotten that we actually have students who don't do anything because they don't need anything because they can't, some are doing a lot that they can not only study but survive. But it doesn't matter to you. Who is the government of Mariana Sharca of 1st? 1. 2020 has adopted an increase in the minimum gross hourly rate, and you can also see, honourable Members of the coalition, how at least most of the parties voted or supported it. Now that it's some kind of automation, when this minimum gross hourly item should be raised, the minister forgot and missed it. What happened in practice? That they've been for a while, it's been 28 years. 1st to 19th. Two, the students were injured. They were working for a lower amount than they were supposed to. This is where a student came in, for example, if he worked for eight hours a day for more than 50 euros. And when they all started to warn us, then the Minister signed this matter, and we had a committee where we all actually condemned it, except of course for a coalition that sees nothing controversial about the fact that the students were again injured for more than 100,000 euros, we also adopted a decision imposing on the government to correct the injustice and to provide reparation to all who were injured within fourteen days. Respectable Ministry! Now that the Minister is not, the Secretary of State – have you corrected this injustice imposed on you by the National Assembly? Where's your supervisor? Not according to my information. In short, in both young people and in social dialogue, we see that the ministry has actually done nothing or, as the Minister, a member of this government has expressed itself, we have helped them symbolically, and you have also spoken to them symbolically or listened to them, but you have not heard them. And the third point I'd like to talk about is the Honesty Department. Here I think that there was more than obvious enough to say, and we had a committee of our own, and the facts are clear. The personal connection of the distinguished Minister of New Slovenia with this institution is more than obvious. The expert commission, composed of five members, of which three are associated with the minister, two even employees in the Ministry's office, also shows undisputed facts to be trusted. The third point is that the Commission completed the evaluation in autumn and gave results in January. The last thing I want to point out today is a change in the conditions you've made and when you've determined that the head of this project can be a theologian. These are actually facts you can't deny. Today, also by the New Slovenia and also by the Minister, it has been said about the PKP or the Anti-Corruption Commission, that they have all the documentation, and I hope, when the report comes, that we will not then have the same case as we have before the Court of Auditors: if we do not like any opinion, we will replace the Director or President of this Commission, because he will then make such a report in the second stage that we will like it. However, in the end, I must say about the statement made by the Minister, who also quoted the statement of this NGO centre at the Office of Honesty, but it is intended or not to release more than three quarters. It is logical that if you are associated with a company, this does not automatically mean that society must not receive any invitation to tender, but it is important, as it also states in this statement, but, of course, that the decisions of the ministries must provide sufficient safeguards against conflicts of interest, such as independence in the commission, fairness and facts, fair treatment of all applicants, traceability of decisions, transparency of assessment and results, exclusion from decision-making in the event of an interesting conflict. Now, as it was in this case, we can actually all see. If I compare these two interpretations at the end, unlike Minister Kustec, who is not really clear about anything, the fact is that Minister Janez Cigler to the King is very clear, but he is also guilty of a lot of things and he did not do it the way he should. That's why I think it's only right for this town to say good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There was absolutely something terrible, terribly wrong about solving this coronary epidemic, because more than 95 percent of the people who died were over 65 years of age. And that's the most interesting thing, why? Since we have been talking since the first day we have faced this disease of the Coronavirus, we are talking about protecting older, vulnerable populations, and we need to take full account of protective measures in order to protect this population. That, in fact, the most dangerous fact is that most of the cases are the younger population asymptomatic, and when walking around unprotected, it is essentially a threat to an older, sensitive population, which has been known since the beginning to be deadly. Hence, the grandchildren did not visit their old parents, so the elderly were isolated immediately at the time of the virus’s appearance, so they had no contact with their neighbors either in their retirement homes or outside. This is extremely traumatic for them, already this isolation causes long-term trauma, not to mention that many have died without their loved ones. Alone. It's a pain no one will ever bring back to them. As a society, we have all consistently followed the rules imposed by the NIJ; that is, to show solidarity as a society and to take care of the population most at risk. And where did the greatest attention have to be given where the most effective, most consistent, most careful action was needed? Probably where there's an exclusively older population, that's in homes for older citizens. Well, here you are, or we've been beaten on the line. For if we were really careful, then the words of the minister, that the intrusion should simply have happened, would simply not have been true. The intrusion should never have happened. Not that way! In the end, we have actually witnessed gerontocide, as Mrs Biserka Marolt Meden warns; what happened there is horrendous and painful. And unfortunately here, a respected minister, who is not currently present, has simply been defeated and should at least assume an objective responsibility for a given situation. Not translate it into Social Democrats or any previous ministers, because, by the way, today's interpretation is absolutely not the interpretation of the Social Democrats, but is the interpretation of the current minister. And at least what it is, we would expect answers about the current state of affairs, not overwhelming the guilt of someone who is not here today to defend himself. You're responsible for the current poor situation. Since what happened couldn't be an excuse, it can't be an excuse for you to inherit something. Such an excuse is out of the question, since you have absolutely abandoned the care given, that you have not prepared for the second wave, which many have warned you about. You had experience from the first wave, you had summer months; very, very easy, not very easy, you should prepare for the second wave. After all, you've been talking all the time, the second wave is coming, the second wave is coming, as the third wave is now constantly being said to be coming. You kept saying that to us, the first time you knew, so you should have prepared yourself first, not that you had met this second wave in defeat. We should prepare, organise, take effective measures, protect and protect those most in need. And, dear Minister, you did not act; but when you did, you were absolutely too late and too little and inappropriate. You didn't provide physical separation of infected residents at home from healthy people, you didn't really provide red zones. You have not introduced mandatory employee testing, which is personally the greatest absurdity to me, because this is the only way you can really control potential intrusions. You haven't even responded to Mrs. Bregant's instructions. My colleague, Sam Bevk, and I, for example, immediately asked a question from the Member States in November, when it was heard that there was a practice in some homes for older and health institutions that employees infected with the Coronavirus work. Thus, the directors of the House of Elders in Podbrdo and the Black Summit of Idrija told them that the infected workers work in the red zone as well. At the beginning of the month, the Ministry sent specific guidelines to all homes for the elderly, the public health institution, the special welfare institution for adults, the work centre, the training centre, work and protection. These guidelines indicated that healthcare professionals certified to be infected may also be included in red zones only if they do not have any signs. So they are asymptomatic if they agree, if their absence would affect the quality and safety of patients. These guidelines were absolutely contrary to the practice of the medical profession, since it has always been considered that infected healthcare professionals who did not show symptoms should be quarantined so as not to spread infections. And it is not clear to me that the Minister has not responded to such instructions. That those who had to be protected were directly threatened by one instruction from the Secretary of State, who, if I am not mistaken, was still employed by the Ministry of Health today. That's when I should have acted. We in the opposition then acted and immediately addressed the issue directly. Although this instruction later changed, his responsibility was to act immediately. But, unfortunately, that was when he stayed quiet, he wasn't there. All that I have mentioned so far has, of course, contributed to the fact that today we have horrendous and frightening numbers of elderly people who died from the covid-19 virus epidemic. And in this context, any debate about what the Minister has inherited or what has happened in the past or how much more they are doing today than in the past is absurd. I would be a little ashamed to answer the impressions from the interpretation because people in the homes were dying of non-action due to the misdirection of the competent minister, the ministry. They did not die because there were not enough investments in the past, they did not die because studies have been carried out, and the values of which have been constantly misleading in the last year. That's not why they died. At this point, I would like to ask nicely if I cannot get a reply from the Minister, and I hope that the Secretary of State can finally answer whether she holds this information, which is constantly repeating that 74 million euros should be spent on studies. Let him tell me right here from the face to the face whether this number was actually used. You know what's been used, you know where you're going to draw the money for the projects you've been predicting, so energy rehabilitation at home for supply. You know exactly what I mean. I saw on Twitter somewhere that the minister said 73 million would be invested. I am now really interested, clearly and loudly, in stopping the deception and in saying whether 74 million euros were actually spent under Minister Anjo Kopač for studies. Or it was actually a start or a start to you today by 2022, on the basis of the funds that have been acquired under its leadership, to carry out projects that boast on Twitter. I really want a clear and loud answer once. Because such deceptions are absolutely unfair to citizens and citizens. And I expect this because it is also the responsibility of the competent minister to allow such lies to spread around or worse, to boast about the work of someone, the former minister, with more time voicing that he had been given a bad legacy and, on the other hand, not telling how real this heritage was. So that Mrs Copač Dark has acquired the European funds that you will be able to invest in today, of course, where it is absolutely necessary. Of course, we all agree. Therefore, I ask you kindly to finally answer this question and to stop spreading lies. I would point out once again that no investment and investment in the past could prevent the disaster we witnessed in the second wave because the instructions and measures were inappropriate, wrong, ineffective. And this is the responsibility of the current minister. If I touch on another aspect and the Minister's objective responsibilities in abandoning duties and care, that is, in preparing appropriate acts to curb the spread of the virus in the workplace. That's another reading from the interpolation. Unfortunately, when drafting anti-Korona legislation, the Minister has clearly ignored the fact that jobs are the main source of infection. That employees who are sick or at risk of contact with the infected are not motivated to stay at home. Why? Since in this case they would be eligible only up to 80 per cent of their salary and lose food and transport allowances. And many, because their absence would endanger their monthly survival, have walked and are still going to work sick. According to the report Uncensored.As early as last November at NIJS, even a good quarter of all infections came from the workplace. In Germany, Austria, this problem was resolved long ago in Croatia. They simply granted the benefit of the entire salary to the staff who had become ill. So they get it whether they get it at work or somewhere else. All they suspect is that they're contagious or they've been quarantined. It's only six weeks before the hospital's regimen. So it's only then that their compensation will go down. This, of course, encouraged the employees to act responsibly, since for their financial status in this case it is no longer important whether they are sick or not. And the entire cost of this company is reimbursed by the state. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, the system of people for economic reasons forces them to go to work, even though they have symptoms. Why? Because employees can only receive full compensation if they prove that they have been infected in the workplace. This, of course, can be done by means of a form with which injuries are reported in the workplace. They must enter the exact date and hour of the infection, and in this case all costs shall be paid by the company for the first month. In Slovenia, even employees in nursing homes have not reported infection and risk contacts due to fear of worsening social status and the threat of inspection. And this greatly increased the already high risk of expanding covid in nursing homes, which, once again, paid the far highest tax during the epidemic. You have been warned about this all the time in both the health union and social protection. We have earmarked the main money in the crown crisis to help businesses that have lost their income due to closure and solidarity allowances for various vulnerable groups. But we have not encouraged the economy to act responsibly during the epidemic. And that's what today's consequences are. And that's because we've faced such terrible numbers. We have also heard over and over again that the opposition is not willing to cooperate and that the responsibility to solve the crisis is also in the opposition – and yet we are guilty of everything! In short, even though we have repeatedly proposed amendments to anti-korona legislation, one of the key ones was the PKP8, where we wrote an amendment to compensate you for 100 per cent of the salary, for which funds would be provided from the budget for all employees who are ill after the covids, whether they are infected with the SARS-COV-2 virus, regardless of whether or not the infection would occur in the workplace. This would, of course, generate a lot of positive effects for both workers and employers, especially to combat the epidemic. But of course, like many times before, we were overheard. The fact is that these companies could then be encouraged to act responsibly because they would have some effective assistance would have maintained their financial position, but unfortunately the ruling coalition prefers to ban and threaten anyone who violates the decisions that restrict the movement, the gathering of people. That's all, it seems to me that's the key to what we're dealing with. And the current strategy against communicable diseases, which is based mainly on some senseless contradictory prohibitions, on the fear of people with high penalties, such a type of policy, such a type of fight actually triggers resistance in people. Very quickly, very quickly, rebellion is triggered, and they also begin to wonder about the prudence of compliance with the rules, even when ruling rules are explained in their own way, depending on where they are caught or how they explain them to themselves. In our views on anti-Korona intervention laws, we have also repeatedly stressed that we need longer-term, faster, more effective measures to preserve economic activity and employment and address the social consequences of the epidemic. But really, every time, we've been over-heard. And once again, it cannot be the opposition that is responsible for a perfect rise in the response to the epidemic, as we would like to demonstrate in the coalition, as has been heard in the opinions of many times now. We're the ones who tried to give you a hand. Even when the government was appointed, we understood how difficult the situation was before us, and we gave you a hand of reconciliation. But again and again, with every single package, you've shown us that for you, cooperation is just a one-way street, or just a one-way street. But it's not a two-way street with a dialogue. I'm afraid you've never been able to do that before. I don't know if you'll ever be able to do that. The fact is, there are catastrophic numbers, the fact that the economy has been devastated, the fact is that we have a lot of people who are drawn to the social edge, to the mental edge, who are facing extraordinary pressures, that we are living a crown of sadness or a crown of chaos, and that there is an absolute responsibility for this, and that there is an absolutely ruling coalition in its work, as well as a minister who is being intertwined today and is unfortunately not here. He has left the duty, he has left the duty to act, he has not shown due diligence and due to the above mentioned absolute today's interpolation is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has Miha Kordish, to prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will begin my debate in response to the position put forward by the New Slovenia Group in defence of today's Minister of Brickler King in the field of Minister of Labour. Immediately in the beginning, Mr Horvat of New Slovenia, who represented this position, began by mentioning that the last settlement of the Quarantine Prince took place on this day in 1414. How? Why does this have to do with Minister Brickler King's interpretation, or else he didn't tell me to help him? I just don't think he'll like my conclusions. The Quarantine prince’s rite was held by a representative of the people sitting on the prince’s stone, a common farmer, and before the prince could become prince, he had to bestow a gift and answer his question in Slovenian or in the predecessor of today’s Slovenian language, as they teach elementary schools. Well, the last enthronement of Ernest Iron ended with his arrogant reply: “I don’t understand what this farmer is saying to me.” About this way, Minister Cigler King walked into the hall today. His response to interpolation is – I don't understand what these farmers from the people sitting in the opposition have to say to me. So let me repeat some of the readings. I have chosen those who personally hurt me the most, from those areas that I meet the most in the national constituency work that I cover. I'd start with the fact that this government doesn't have a single minister to work with. The one who sits at the Ministry of Labour actually represents the employers. Minister Cigler the King is not the Minister for Labour, he is the Minister for Employers. Let's just look at the case of minimum wage. In cooperation with the government of Marjana Sarca, the Left has revised the Minimum Wages Act, which has drastically raised this minimum wage to EUR 700 net and has removed supplements from its definition. The law also included a mechanism to harmonise this minimum wage upwards. Minister Cigler King followed this law only under union pressure and after having spent the first half of the year trying to raise the minimum wage at least freezes if he doesn't cut it off and cancel it. And as if that wasn't enough, after he had raised the minimum wage, he did it at a minimum, he could have raised it substantially more, and he gave employers 50 euros of subsidies per month for each paid minimum wage, regardless of whether this payer, so the company, the minimum wage, was in trouble or not, that it might not have increased its profits in the covida-19 epidemic situation. Some social justice, this is not of interest to Minister Cigler of the King; he is only interested in the transfer of public funds from the Ministry of Labour items into private pockets, preferably private pockets of people around the current government of Janez Janša. A very similar manoeuvre in saving and unrecognizable workers was also used in raising the student minimum hourly rate. The student minima was also raised in cooperation with the Government of Marjana Šarca, and this law also incorporated a mechanism to raise this minimum student hourly figure at the same time as the minimum wage is raised. Minister Brickler King missed a month by raising a student's minimum. In this way, those students who work through a passport, these are the most socially disadvantaged students, the poorest students, who have been deprived by a total of 100,000 euros. This is what the student representatives said at the meeting of the Labour Committee, where we addressed this issue. The same committee of work has gained sufficient wisdom to adopt a decision by which Minister Cigler King should pay back in the next two weeks for the loss of income which students have suffered as a result of the minister's negligence. For those who work for minimum items and work for 10 percent of their wages this month were defrauded. In addition to not being assisted in any of the PKPs, the minister then denied within one month 10 percent of their income, their wages; they were cheated, they were robbed. And even after the National Assembly told him that he had to go back and pay the students back, the minister didn't do it. He referred to the fact that he had no legal basis, his task as Minister of Labour, to provide the legal basis for the payment of the wrongs to the students' workers. Nothing. The second area most exposed to the epidemic is the most critical one in which I want to stay, but the question at home for older citizens. Here came the largest proportion of excess deaths, unnecessary deaths, and it was solely due to the failure of the Ministry of the Brickler King, not just because of the covida-19 epidemic, which will take so many and so many souls. No, no, no. Much of these deaths were so that they could be avoided and prevented. In the first wave in Levica, we asked the King’s Minister of Cygler to take care of dislocated departments in the homes of the elderly, or there was no such burden on hospital care in the first wave. That is why we wanted those sick elderly people who could only move to hospitals and take care of them properly, because, of course, the homes of older citizens are not adequately equipped or adequately trained to handle the epidemic at the level of the best possible health care. This idea and this course of action, followed by sick or infected elderly people, even slightly depending on the situation to the situation, moved to some dislocated departments or dedicated to hospital care, the best care they could get, was in fact the Community initiative of social welfare institutions. Thus, working collectives that keep up and still keep awake also in the covida-19 epidemic home of older citizens. And in these homes there was a very severe staffing crisis before the epidemic, people were extremely burdened, burned, nurses were bribed, long-term hospital absences were increasing, and so on. It was all a bean against a wall. We called a meeting in the National Assembly, but we don't need it, it's really not something that would count. Instead, the Ministry went to draw colorful zones within the home of older citizens who, of course, did nothing and did not interfere with the spread of the infection. The first wave ended, the summer came, the government warned, don't get too comfortable, the second wave was coming, and these warnings obviously directed only two million citizens and citizens, and they didn't listen to them, let alone follow them. And there came a second wave. Well, too many deaths and unnecessary deaths in the homes of the elderly have really jumped. As Minister Cigler King looked away during the summer, the epidemic spread throughout the country, broke into a few homes of the elderly, and the elderly withdrew briefly, and the negligence of Minister Cigler King was paid with their lives. And this is not the case as I tried to argue, this is not the case that after the battle it is possible to be a general. No! No! In April, we requested, begged, and begged Levi to take care of dislocated capacities — but it did not. In the end, however, older people's homes started projects to create dislocated capacities for the elderly, but at the time we were already deep in the second wave. They simply had nothing but this dislocated capacity left to try to stop the spread of the epidemic. But this could have been done much earlier, much better if the government of John Janša once for a change rather than their own interests listened to what people need and what the profession tells them. Employees in the homes of older citizens were also not properly rewarded. Even after the government finally decided to comply with requests for a raise of staff, staff in the elderly’s homes, it looked for holes to whom the crown of the supplements would be directed, and not to whom, who had been in contact with the infected elderly, who had not been, regardless of the fact that the increased amount of work due to the epidemic had all the employees caught up. And even after these supplements were accepted, and when the government decided to move, it ran for the snail. One such simple accounting operation, as it has disbursed funds into the homes of older citizens, so that from these funds homes can cover higher salaries and employee allowances, which has been delayed and dragged for months. And the first - wave supplements were paid — when? Midsummer, end of summer! As if we did not have this experience, the story in the second wave is repeated; now we are in the middle of this story, how the ministry under the Bricker King cannot do and perform something even as simple as that, in due time, it has earmarked the allowances to pay the employees. Instead, New Slovenia prefers to deal with military parades and flying planes and making a fool of itself, of course with tragic consequences for everyone else. Of course, as I have already pointed out, the situation in the homes of the elderly was not pink before the covida-19 epidemic, that is, before the government of Janez Janša. This cannot be denied and I don't even know why I would deny it, because it is in Levica that we have already put a safe age in the beginning of this mandate and also in the previous mandate and the provision of the capacity to provide care for the elderly at the very top of our demands and political efforts. Twelve thousand beds are missing in the homes of older citizens or before the outbreak. Governments have ignored this area, they have done nothing, the previous governments have done nothing, and this logic has also been followed by the current government and the current Minister of Brickler the King, only that he has stepped even further on the gas to the most harmful practices that are already raising the price for the elderly and their relatives in case they ask you for home care. I'm talking about privatizing the care of the elderly in the homes of older citizens. Instead of looking first at where the government could build public homes, alocate suitable funds, then maybe if necessary, tendering some more concessions – although I do not think in any case concessions would be necessary, with the appropriate political will to build all homes with public money – in short, instead of going to build homes for the elderly, we go to provide beds for all the elderly who are in line for the provision of services, she has offered lucrative concessions for private friends who work for the care of the elderly. And prices in private homes for older citizens are much higher than in public homes, 25 percent higher, one third higher. And Minister Cigler the King is nothing to me, you have little to do with the continuation of the care of the elderly. In this regard, let us add what practices are being multiplied in the private homes of older citizens, who do not pursue the priority of caring for the elderly, but of caring for the profits of the owners. To account for what they call additional services, although this is, for example, fingernail cutting, pruning on food, inadequate food appears in cases of private establishments of older citizens. The meeting was convened by Ciegler's Nova Slovenija in the previous term! Today, a few years later, and in the current term – what? It is to these private people, who she has found to feed the elderly inadequately, that she is granting concessions for the construction of additional homes for older citizens. And so on. I'll draw a line here. Four reasons why: for the first time, Minister Cigler King has to leave, he is absolutely inappropriate for the head of the Ministry of Labour, and for the second time why the entire government of Janez Janša should actually fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I warmly welcome the distinguished Minister, the distinguished Secretary of State and, of course, all Members and Members of Parliament! Today's interpolation is a mirror of past governments. In fact, we should be interpreting the former Minister of Labour Anjo Kopač Dark today. Otherwise, these interpretations are after a constructive hopeless place of time, 17 hours of time. I said on Monday that we have many other things to do, but we are dealing with ourselves, since this debate today our citizens will have nothing to do. The fact is that what is happening today is the most unjustifiable interpretation. This is the most unjustifiable interpretation! In the opposition, you went to the wrong minister; you went to the minister, who answers all your questions and questions to our citizens and citizens. When Minister Janez Cigler King puts things in the right place, when the money for studies is replaced by bricks after more than 13 years. The last home for the elderly was built more than 13 years ago, built by the minister from Nova Slovenije, Janez Cigler King from New Slovenia will build five of the following. So we're building in New Slovenia. You don't do it, you don't build it like I said. You haven't built a single home for the elderly in over 13 years. But you want to break up, and you've been doing this all along. Today it's just about getting the good work of our minister dirty, and nothing else. You want to interpret the man who, as soon as he was appointed minister, had to solve on the one hand the staffing and spatial hardships in the nursing homes and their problems with the lack of protective equipment because you left him empty warehouses. On the other hand, there had to be a battle with a covida-19. And please don't talk to me about the responsibility of our minister! You showed your responsibility or better irresponsibility best when you threw a rifle into the corn. Now you're smart with the opposition and you're stealing our time because you're simply afraid of doing more to me in this short term than you've done in the last decade. And we will do more in this short term, and I am sure of that. That's why you have to throw pollen under your feet all this time, although we all know that all Members know that today you will not get 46 votes, so it's just a show because this circus is simply broadcast on TV. While the opposition imagines that it has solutions for all its problems, Minister John Cigler the King has been working all this time. Eight anti-Korona packages that have helped our many citizens. Now you don't have to believe me, ask the pensioners. Ask the pensioners when they got as much as they got from this government. Ask the parents of children with special needs when they have received as much as they have now received under this government. 150 euro supplement in the first wave, 100 euro higher care allowance from the beginning to the end of the epidemic, free parental accommodation without age limit, of course, and hospital compensation. At the same time, in New Slovenia, with the support of Minister Janez Cigler King, who is listening to our weakest citizens, we are raising compensation for the lost income received by parents of children with special needs. If I look only briefly into the past, we can see that unfortunately so far there has been no hearing for this problem, for almost 150 euros a month they will receive more on their TRR parents children with special needs. You, in the opposition, have given them 1.6 euros a year in the last ten years, I am talking about a gross amount. So much for how much you care about the weakest citizens. If you don't believe me, ask entrepreneurs, ask employees who benefit from the waiting measure and various compensations. Ask them. Would you survive without all these measures of the Ministry of Labour or those measures proposed by John Cigler King? From the PKP1 to the PKP8, 413 million euros were paid to 31 000 companies, thus maintaining 300,000 jobs. Three hundred thousand jobs! We have also given great emphasis in New Slovenia to families and children. We have increased the allowance for large families to 29 thousand families. New Slovenia is, of course, close to families. We increased the baby supplements, we increased the one-time supplement when the baby was born. If you don't believe what I'm saying, ask your parents again who have received all these supplements. I must also simply respond to the numbers concerning death and the numbers that began today's position as a candidate, with all due respect for the relatives of the deceased. You know, in the opposition you will have to decide once: whether you will continue to talk about the number of dead and at the same time call for you to stop wearing masks so that children and teachers in school will be free of masks, you will have to decide whether you support measures or not. One thing and the other, it doesn't work together. You take advantage of one side or the other when it suits you. Let me make a few words of truth. Let me tell you in the beginning: I will let all the applicants know if anything is wrong, please inform the competent institutions. But yes, you have another goal: to stain the good work of Minister John Brickler King. The opposition is troubled by €130,000, and by the European money received by the Institute of Honesty. The Institute of Honesty, but I am grateful for this, has opened up a much more important topic, namely the operation and financing of NGOs. Over the past 13 years, NGOs, registered at only one title of Metelkova 6, have spent as much as 43.3 million euros in public funds. From 2009 to 2019, it is said in ten years, but from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been earmarked for senior homes, I am talking about adaptation and renovation, 31.8 million for student homes, I am talking about construction and maintenance, 35 million and 70.4 million for 20 NGOs with a declared left-wing agenda. The problem is now €130,000 received by the Institute of Honesty! And if Honesty wanted to get that much money, we should be chosen every year on the call and it would take 333 years to do so. NGOs on Metelkova 6 cost us 9,000 125 euros every day, and today, the opposition is in trouble with 130 000 euros. Respectable opposition, where does the money that goes to Metelkovo 6 go? Ever since I was in the National Assembly, I've never heard of an urgent session on this subject. But we have to have the same vats for everyone. That's what I always say. And we must not forget: During the first month of the county of PGD Šmarci, Marjan Šarec awarded 72 000 euros and himself took over as a member of the supervisory board of society. All I expect from you Members of the LMŠ is that you have the same vats for everyone. You are performing a media circus, but you did not perform it when your President, Marjan Sarec, gave more than a million euros for the school in Kamnik, for a school that is not at all. It's not a lonely case. She is also in conflict of interest with today's proposal for the interpretation of Jerco Korča. Municipal Councilwoman in the municipality of Logatec, who was also president of the Youth Council Logatec and president of the Club of Logan Students. This club has received more than 39,000 euros of municipal money; Igor Lukšič was employed on the FDV before, during and after the ministerial function. As Minister of Education in 2009, the FDV donated 700 000 euros for the civic education project. Andrej Lukšič, brother of Igor Lukšić, took part in the project. All clear? It's not my intention to get other people dirty. It's not really my intention to defile others, but what I'm saying is that if you are, it doesn't mean that Minister Janez Brickler is King like that. That's a fact I wanted to say. I am a grateful minister to you, and I am very grateful to you because you are regulating things about recipients of financial social assistance who are able to work and can provide their own livelihoods with their own work. Thank you for advocating a transparent system of social transfers. Thank you for your sense of responsibility to those who can't work. I thank you, Minister, for always listening to vulnerable groups, and thank you for supporting our proposal to increase the loss of income compensation. Thus, in New Slovenia, we will help parents with special needs by raising partial payment for lost income. Acts consider these acts to be as many as possible. Dear Minister, I know you do well because I know you, I follow your work every day, and I know what you do and what you do. How do the others who don't know your work know that? It's simple: always smoking after a good horse. The only purpose of interpolation is to get you dirty and get in the way of your work. And don't let it stop you, and use all the pollen that's thrown under your feet to get even higher. Bravely forward, you have my support, you have the support of the New Slovenia Group, you have support in the National Assembly, and you are supported by people on the ground. Thank you for being close to people, and I believe in your victory.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrej Reich, get ready, mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u38	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, on your appointment as Minister a good year ago, you have sworn to respect the constitutional order, to follow your conscience and to work hard for the welfare of Slovenia. Right after that, you started working. We all remember that evening night meeting of the government where the entire ministerial team was assembled, and there, after you were in the National Assembly without masks, you wore special masks, the whole team. And it was these masks in the retirement homes that there were no hospitals. At the time of the first wave, somehow the whole of Europe was hesitant about how to deal with this crisis, because no one really knew what its consequences were. Hand to heart, we must say that there was not enough protective equipment anywhere in Europe, but Slovenia somehow managed, knew and also relatively successfully in the first wave or above average success in the first wave we solved this epidemic and eventually even celebrated it by flying military aircraft. But look at the fragment, we knew there would be another wave. We have also consistently called on the Sab party to respect all the measures of the profession, as well as all the measures recommended, and we have also proposed in the Sab party that all the most vulnerable groups of people should be provided with free protection masks as one of the measures prescribed by the Government as mandatory and to protect the most vulnerable groups of people, so we are talking about pensioners over 65 years of age. Even when it was the first wave of the epidemic, we know that the worst problems were in homes for older citizens. We know that in these homes infections are spreading somehow the fastest. And if we look at this graph, we see and also the numbers show that in Slovenia – in fact, we have data for Slovenia, Austria and Germany – and that Slovenia in the first wave is good, above average good, above average good, even though, in your opinion, the previous government has somehow left itself a mess. And then somehow the second wave started coming. We were all under the impression of the first wave. The DSO employees warned us that they were used up, that they were on the verge of capacity. The government has also somehow gone through them with the crown accessories to work in risky environments. I have also asked you a question on this subject about the payment and the amount of the allowances. I have not yet received an answer when all beneficiaries will receive the supplements and how high these supplements were. According to our information, people in older citizens' homes working in red zones received even €50 in additions, while some officials who had virtually no contact with infectious officials had to go to work, get 200 euros and more. Therefore, once again on this occasion, I would like to invite you to come to know us with these information that I have set for you through the question of the Member State. We know that in mid-April, it was somehow the beginning of the second wave. The borders with Croatia, despite recommendations from the profession, have not closed or restricted the transition, although in Slovenia we had somewhat stricter measures than in neighbouring Croatia, where these measures were not prescribed. Then it practically started in September, I'll say, it's not an exodus, it's a calvary, and that's what those data show. Even though we had more stringent measures than in our entire neighborhood, the number of covid's victims began to rise sharply, and most of the victims, 60 percent, were retired. In Slovenia, we have thus had one million deaths in this period between pensioners than in Austria and Germany, despite having closed schools – the longest in Europe – and despite having recorded one major fall in gross domestic product due to measures to prevent the spread of covid. I welcome, however, that you have taken measures to mitigate these negative economic consequences, but it must be made clear that these falls are due to an ineffective response to the crisis. We also attended a meeting yesterday at the invitation of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor in Brdo near Kranj with the objective of the Government to analyse events and actions that went wrong in the second wave. So then we expected clear answers to what the profession had proposed and the government did not take into account what the Government had accepted and implemented over the recommendations of the profession and what this meant for the results of the fight against the epidemic itself. We have not received answers to these key questions, and today I am giving you the opportunity to answer these questions, so that people know what has happened, what we should do and what we must do as a society, so that these results, the devastating results, will not happen again. You know, only an ass repeats the same mistake twice, we just can't afford it, we can't afford it. We were also wondering yesterday what actually went wrong in the DSOs, what else could we do to make less elderly people die. Has the expert commission proposed any measures and solutions? Is it true that domestic workers infected with covid were required to work in their homes? You know, these are questions that are circulating in the public and that the government has to give clear views and answers to. Yesterday at the meeting, we did not get any answers to our questions, even somehow we were sent by the expert group to read the reports and find them ourselves. So this is essentially one set of matters that is very important to me, and I would like to ask your information below. The following is also related to a number of anti-Korona packages. It is true that there have been almost, I will say, 10 anti-Korona laws, but I expect that by the end of the year 10 anti-Korona laws will probably be passed if this continues at such a pace. However, this points to one point: that this inflation of legislation means that, in fact, the measures taken in this national assembly or proposed by the Government are not considered not to deal effectively with people's problems and are therefore not understandable. See if the legislation changes every month or every other month, I doubt anyone is able to follow and implement at all. And that means that these laws are obviously ineffective and that permanent corrections are needed. And in the opposition, we have repeatedly called on the Government to analyse the measures, to communicate them clearly and calmly with the public and to calmly check their effects. I don't know the country that would take these measures at that speed. Have nine anti-Korona laws been passed in Germany? Eight? You know, the question is whether one system that wants to be predictable, which wants to be effective, can afford such hand-to-hand action when adopting legislation. The third thing that seems very important to me is also, of course, addressing the social challenges that have arisen during this period. I am certainly happy here, and I also support that the Government has somehow followed the practice of countries in the European Union. However, I would like to point out that it is possible that any measure that has not been considered would not have been adopted, who would not need to ask the State for social assistance. And when you speak, we have saved 300,000 jobs, and it has to be said that these are people who have so far not needed any social assistance and who have been able to live off their jobs. In this light, it must be said that these jobs have become at risk on this account. And the question is how many of these jobs have become threatened by disproportionate measures, and this is what we are talking about. We've had a lockdown, but it's possible for another ministry, but we've had lockdowns taken substantially before and significantly longer than in neighbouring countries. And this may refer to education See if you have a small child, or a school-bound child, or a child in kindergarten, could not go to school, means that the parent had to be at home and therefore had an income loss. [[…]] If the parent who has a child with special needs had to be at home, but he received a 150 euro larger allowance for this, but you know, there he had 8 hours of special education at his disposal, it means that this child was very disadvantaged because this parent simply cannot offer him these services. Therefore, we ask and wonder what was actually going on here, we are interested in an analysis of the measures, what was needed, what was not necessary, so that in the third wave, which is clearly coming, these errors will not be repeated. As far as social affairs are concerned. I myself have repeatedly called for all social transfers, state and municipal, to be paid through one account, i.e. through one account. I think that this ministry should do so if it wants all social transfers to be transparent, transparent and efficient. Today we have some social transfers paid by local communities, others paid by the state, and simply no one has an overview of what anyone gets. There has been a debate in this National Assembly on how people abuse social transfers, or on how to let lazy people take money, because they do not deserve it, but they do, and we do not have a proper examination of who gets what. I think that this is one of your tasks, which should be pursued as Minister, and I have not observed in your discussions that we should in fact make sure that all social transfers can be paid through one account by local, state, and that this is also required in the annual tax report we receive from Furs, visible instead of the many pages of long flying that are included there. This is also a matter that is not a matter of interpretation, but someone in the debate said that we have a transparent system of social transfers. And in that light, I was bragging. In the fourth and last sequence, I can't avoid the subject of the Honesty Institute. My speaker also highlighted a very interesting topic of how these things are shared with us, what is a conflict of interest. Here I will only point out that I, for the European Commission, judge several times, on a regular basis – and for this I have permission from the National Assembly – research and development projects and everyone must write there whether they are in conflict of interest and be excluded. In fact, I am very concerned that some of these things are not self-evident, are not self-evident, and that someone who is an active member of the institution can then, by means of his team, decide on these funds. This is a matter that must be carried out by an expert service at the Ministry, not by a narrower expert team of ministers. I think that what we're talking about is not going to be ideological, but I think that the institution, which somehow does not advocate positions of profession in various matters, should not – but now we are not just talking if it is a institution that happens to be of this Christian nature; that someone who does not advocate positions of profession – should not be given state resources. It means that someone is sick, that they can't do what medical ethics allows, and that's the problem. Because of this and all of these facts, I will support interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next debate is mag. Carmen Furman, prepare for Mrs. Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The well-respected opposition, however, insists more on you today in this hall, but let us start again quite nicely. Indeed, until the current government of Mr Janez Janš you have managed almost 12 years, of which only the Social Democrats are 10 years old. Your undisputed favorite in this area is Anja Kopač Mrak at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities sitting for a full five-and-a-half year term. And you know, during all this time, the welfare system has literally collapsed in front of your eyes, and that's a fact, because as a mirror of your rule, this was set up by the Court of Auditors with its audit report in September 2019. The fact is that this report shows that the social welfare system has not worked for many years under your governments, a respected coalition. It has not worked at all and it is clear from the report that this area has been extremely critical for many years. And your governments, your colleagues in office, your ministers in all the ten years that the Court's audit has covered, have not taken any of the necessary measures to improve the situation. Not a single measure to ensure that people have access to adequate social care in order to ensure that elderly people have access to their homes for the elderly, as well as any measure to improve the quality of their stay for those caregivers who were already in their homes. Not one in ten years of your rule! But I must say, in all these years, you have been warned of what is fair. You were warned about the lack of single beds in your homes, and you were also reminded of the lack of adequate staff in your homes, because in those years of your rule there was a risk of adequate care and care for the elderly in certain homes. So that we don't get carried away if we just fly past the publications of past years, which are publicly available to all, this issue and warnings about what is going on in this area have been a great deal. So that I don't go too far into history, just like this, for refreshment. See, February 2018, portal Below the line reports that no one checks the conditions in nursing homes and is catastrophic. Over the years, it has drawn attention to the consequences, and the country has become more responsible. Year 2018 – Whose government? Next. Even during the previous government of Marjana Sarca, i.e. the LMŠ party, today's interpolation proposer, the Council has made clear how severe the shortage of personnel in homes is; namely, it has been shown that one nurse and one nurse in some homes at night are caring for 250 caregivers. Respected opposition, respected candidate, respected LMŠ – in 2019, February. And so this happened during your government, and this situation in the homes of the elderly took many years, but you have not acted, and today you are happy to learn. Let us also look at some public publications, publicly available data, 2019 when you formed a government in the LMŠ. At that time, there were 11 thousand 446 elderly people waiting to be admitted to their homes according to official information, and there were no vacancies in public homes throughout the country. Not a single one! And your government, the government of Marjana Sarca, decided at that time, despite a record budget, to build a home for older fights of €5 million. You know what that means. Not even enough to build a single public home for the elderly. At the time, however, on my question raised, namely October 2019, the then President of the Government, Marjan Sarec, even managed to praise – I will quote from the tape record: "Next year we will spend five million euros to invest in homes for the elderly. The amount is not symbolic if I add that in 2016 the country allocated only EUR 345 000 for older people's homes, and in 2017 it did not provide the euro." Look, and this is information from the time of your governments. What a stepmotherly attitude you had toward regulating the system over the years. That is why I am asking you today, my opposition colleagues, and especially my colleagues from the Social Democrats, you have been running the department for 10 years. Why haven't you improved the situation in this area? Why didn't you build a home for the elderly when we needed them? Why did you not employ the necessary care staff, but if you have been warned of these years and years? Yes, now the data clearly shows that you are social only on paper, in words and in the address of your client, because after your actions and actions your ministers certainly do not. Last but not least, the illegal forgiveness of Minister Kopač Mrakova has cost our taxpayers as much as 150 000 euros in the past. So in all these years your government has not built a single public home for the elderly, but you had thousands of elderly people in the waiting line who wanted beds at home. On the other hand, you prefer to spend money on useless studies and projects, and we have spent 74 and a half million Euros of taxpayer money for this, and this is the Court of Auditors' report. And today, hand to heart, we all know that from these studies and projects our people had nothing. If you then spent this money, this 74 million and a half on building new facilities in your homes, on improving the long-term equipment in your homes, on the necessary personnel that you have been alerted to over the years, you know, and then the current government, the current minister, especially the home caregivers and employees, have significantly better conditions and ultimately significantly easier conditions for the re-reading of the covid epidemic, which – stop moving around – faces the whole world and not just our country. Yes, the fact is that social care under your governments has obviously been limping for years, and so much so that unfortunately, in the wake of a co-infection, it's also actually broken. You know, we hear you talk a lot about actions counting. Yes, we agree, but under your government these actions were not enough, at least not enough, but those that would benefit our citizens. In all these years, however, you have often created poverty and poverty with your policies, rather than saving them. In 2010, by amending the legislation, you managed to impose on socially disadvantaged people a state loan that they were forced to secure with their property. So you've punished those who have created something with their work over the years. Let me remind you, more than 33,000 pensioners have therefore in distress renounced the protective allowance and all these pensioners, the well-respected opposition today, you have pushed even deeper below the poverty threshold. And let me remind you of your raise in the minimum wage you managed to maneuver under the Sharchas government. We all agree, the minimum wage is right to be even higher, but – what did you do? Instead of giving people fair pay for their work, you eventually provided higher rates to citizens, as as a result prices in kindergartens, care in nursing homes, health insurance, municipal services and so on have risen. So you promised citizens free kindergartens, and finally you encouraged them by your actions. And yes, yours were also credits for raising the costs in nursing homes that you put on the shoulders of the elderly. And you who are talking today about the necessary social dialogue, let me remind you that this manoeuvre has been carried out with the total exclusion of social dialogue. I must say, unfortunately, this long-standing government of yours has also left serious consequences in this area, and today it is forced to rescue Minister Janez Cigler the King and save them more than excellent, because even in these times of crisis, no one has been forgotten. The adopted anti-Korona packages managed to maintain a number of jobs, and the vulnerable groups were provided with a solidarity allowance, an allowance for the elderly, and an allowance for children who were especially burdened during the epidemic with higher wages or allowances. And if you have spent all these years dividing tens of millions of euros into organizations that, for the most part, are meant to do so, the current government has only managed to correct a number of things in this area in a year. With the budget adopted, social security funds increased by as much as 21 per cent in 2021 and 30 million are already in the budget for the construction of homes for the next two years. Just for comparison, as Minister Janez Cigler King has already said, in the last five years under your rule, in five years, 8.4 million. We have abolished discriminatory regulations of the pension law, for which there has been no obedience under the Sharqov government on your part. Despite the lower economic growth, we ensured extraordinary harmonisation of pensions with the amendment of the law, and in January 2021 pensions were also regularly harmonised. We provided young parents with a higher pension base. With the help of the State Fund, children under the age of 26 will be provided with maintenance, and for the benefit of the people in this coalition we will also work well with Minister John Brickler the King in the future. Finally, the well-respected opposition, indeed, we have today's interpellation of the minister of this government. But thanks to you, you have given us an excellent opportunity to pour ourselves some clean wine and tell the public how in recent years you have spent tax money on this department, how in all these years you did not build the necessary new homes for the elderly, you did not build hospitals, you did not prepare the necessary pension, health, tax, school reforms, you did not shorten the waiting lines in health care. But you've talked a lot about it, and you've made promises to people. However, I believe that today you are particularly in pain that this government, as well as Minister John Cigler the King, is doing good and working for the people. In doing so, it has zero tolerance for your long-standing practice, such as the pre-arranged and mainly overpaid comrade business for selected elites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Before proceeding with the debate, I should like to point out, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, that the speaker may only speak at the meeting on a question on the agenda. Now, reverend magus. Furman, in your implementation for almost 15 minutes, you only mentioned the Minister of Brick King twice, and among other things you spoke about Minister Kopač Dark, who is not, you talked about tax reforms, pensions, waiting lines in health and so on. I didn't want to interrupt you and throw away this red thread of yours, but the thematic debate was a little off. I therefore ask all further debaters to stick to the subject. This is an intervention against the current minister, not against the governments, against the ministers of the previous governments. We now have a procedural proposal first. Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You have taken my words out of my mouth when you talk about the interpretation of the current Minister, not the previous Minister, or even the previous Minister, against whom a large part of the debate of a Member of the SDS has been focused. I won't answer and I won't replicate. But I'm going to make a proposal. Let me just say that over the last 10 years, over 348 beds have been extra. Not only that, more emergency centers have been arranged. I'm talking about more than 12. And, of course, what is crucial, and what I am also giving my initiative, is respected if you can call on the honourable Minister. In fact, colleague Meira Hot had previously asked him a very indicative and simple question. And I'm asking the Minister if he can answer the same question in this style. Tell me if, as my colleague has said before me, 74 million euros have been spent on studies, as the SDS party has claimed not only today, but for the past few years. And please, Minister, answer yes or no. Has 73 million been spent on studies alone in the last period, as was the SDS's claim? Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. German. I have understood your procedural proposal in style to ask the Minister from the chair to answer a certain question. This option is not given to me by the processor or by me. The Minister himself will decide when he will respond to any of the discussions. Here, I must, unfortunately, reject your procedural proposal or make a negative decision on it. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert also has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. If we remember the last interpolation, it was you who started the session in my debate when you also warned me that I had gone too far. At the time, I believed your well - intentionedness, for you said that you would always do so for everything the same and that you could not influence when others were leading. Comrade Reich – and you have already held the meeting – said publicly, we can look in the magnetogram, that he went wider than the interpolation, that he went beyond the darkness, and you did not warn him. But it seemed necessary for you to warn me now that colleague Carmen spoke. I think that's really a double standard. If we measure how much time someone has said a word or the name of an individual for content, I don't think we're going to get too far, and that's not the role of the chairman. So please, let's stick to what you promised to be, and warn everyone, no matter what I say, the circle of the National Assembly is coming from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, for your proposal. I accept him with all my responsibility. But I would just explain that in the debate Mr Reich with a few sentences, I don't even know if I could say in plural, went beyond the darkness. My colleague Furman spoke for almost 15 minutes outside the darkness. And I will stick to my words, and I will warn every debater, either from the coalition or from the opposition, if he has been discussing too much for too long. However, I believe and I know that interpellation is such a very wide institute and of course we are going through or a little wider in our discussions. Not for 15 minutes to talk about previous governments and previous ministers. That's why I warned your fellow Member and for no other reason. So much for an explanation. Now the proposer has made a statement. Mrs. Korce, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Colleague Furman somehow blamed the situation which today, she referred to the previous governments, touched the parties of the Social Democrats even more. I am neither a lawyer nor a party to the Social Democrats nor Minister Anja Kopač Dark, but things need to be put where they fit. The obvious why you didn't build, why you didn't hire a nursing staff. None of this, but if we had five or ten more homes built in Slovenia, would prevent what we are witnessing today, that is, the number or height of the victims, because this is largely conditioned by non-action or by giving direction to homes that were impossible. It is difficult for me to imagine, I do not know in what parallel universe it is possible for Minister Kopač Dark or Minister Cotman, Minister Drobnič or anyone to take care of timely testing at the time of the coronavirus. It is difficult for me to imagine that any other minister before Mr. Brick King could be responsible for not laying the legal ground for the spread of infections in the workplace. So it's about the amount of compensation. When the virus came, when the new situation in which it was necessary to turn quickly, to put things the way they had to, after all, hear calls from the field, it was the responsibility of the minister to do so. And the minister decided not to lay any legal grounds that would prevent the spread of infections in the workplace. The Minister decided to act in a way that would merely call, appeal, set up an electronic form and so on; he had leverage to change the law. The Minister decided that we would have different compensations, whether the contact had taken place outside the workplace, whether it had taken place or whether isolation had been determined and so on. This is the responsibility of Minister of the Brick King. And I have not yet heard the reasons or arguments why such a decision has been made. And, of course, on the other hand, admitting that such a decision meant an increased spread of infections in the workplace. That's another thing. If we had more houses, if we were to provide free cities, you'd have 11,000 people waiting to be admitted to their homes. I just rhetorically ask myself, or we can be happy that we didn't have a home anymore, that there would be more infections, that there would be more death. Because summer sleep is the main problem. The main problem is, as it is said, once again, let us focus on calls, once again, external units, the ministry or this government has given instructions to the home – organize three zones: sick, suspected of infection, healthy. On March 27th, the minister says he knows that homes can't do this, but he insists on it. Homes begin to write, the Community of Social Institutions begins to send letters in which the Minister is repeatedly told in different ways that this is not possible and that such calls and insistence on such guidelines will have disastrous consequences. That's what they told you, Minister, in one of the letters. The minister says on July 23rd, I've been entrusted to myself that they have stockpiles of protective equipment, that they have experience. So also the supplies of protective equipment according to the minister's words 23. There were seven of them. But something went wrong from here on out. Two thousand and 58 dead didn't happen on their own. And the virus spread uncontrollably in the homes, in the workplaces; and of this, the whole country was, after all, a prisoner. Testing is the same story. No minister is responsible for this before the interview. We don't give him bad architectural design, I don't know, the House of Older Persons in Hrastnik. The fact that there are no more single rooms, that there are no more balconies, I don't know what, we don't read that. But it's clear that Minister 13. 3. assumed the role of Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to take note of the fact that we have brought the first wave together as we have, from today's perspective, well. And that noble with the experience of the first wave, when they told him what was to be done, when they sent calls over the summer, nothing or what should have been done; except for videoconferencing, meetings, meeting references, and so on. But this was not the prime minister's task unless concrete measures were also followed to prevent what we have today. Pika. And it's every vomit on the I don't know which government back the thing that, for the first time, isn't written in the interpolation as an obvious and, secondly, the reflection that there's no argument for the obviouss that are written in the interpolation. And let's start talking about arguments. I'll be glad if I'm wrong. I would be even more pleased that these numbers today should not be interpreted here and presented to the Minister. These aren't pleasant things, even for the opposition, but we can't be quiet. We can't be quiet, not even in sight, when a person reads everything, countless things, I have international comparisons, as foreign institutions have also done studies and reviewed what was happening in Slovenia. And the minister's probably aware of that, too. And the opposition cannot be silent because it is our duty to claim responsibility from someone who has not done his duty. And even from the coalition speakers, from those who would like to defend the minister, I have not heard any arguments. I do not respond to my colleague Rebersk at all because I think that such a populist has not had this national assembly for a very long, very long time. Because if I go to such populists, of course I can go down to such a level, I can open Erar, and I can say - Nova Slovenija has received 8 million 457 000 euros from the state budget. But you know how much home we could build for this money. Do you know how many homes?Oh, my God! It's about that kind of thing. And before we talk about non-governmental organisations, any receiving budgetary resources, it is good for a person to look at what their activities are; and as a policy, we ask ourselves why these NGOs have to carry out these tasks. A lot of them, mainly because they're taking their ass out to the state, because we could take care of some things. And, of course, it is also good for social activity that we have NGOs. Let's get back to it. The outside units, the testing, the calls, the ignorance, why did this happen? Why different compensations in workplaces? These are questions, these are the main reasoned findings in interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Andreja Zabret. Prepare yourself, Mr. Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. If you're listening to the debates set out in the coalition, for a moment I thought we were at the interpeel. Today, however, we have an interpretation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King. Dear Minister, I have an interpretation written before me and your answer to this interpretation. I personally read both of them, but when I read your answer, I had the feeling that you didn't read our interpretations and especially the reasons for it. In fact, your answer looks like a pir article or some work report, what else you're going to do, what you've already distributed from the taxpayer's money, which has not actually been earned, and it's all based on loans. The answer is mainly to the words you like and very little to the facts. There are also quite a few of your words in response to the meaningless description of how many e-mails you sent are a lot of nice talk. A person has a feeling when he reads that you're actually somehow apologizing for working, but me and all of us are interested in the results. And if I just list some of the facts that don't work for you – that we are the third worst country by the number of people who died with covid-19 per million inhabitants, most of them died here in the DSOs; that we are the sixth worst country by the number of confirmed infections per million inhabitants. The epidemic has already been declared strong in 200 days and 150 days we also have a curfew announced. I mean, once again, it's really just a few facts that aren't really good for you. I believe you're saying you're working. And you've done something. Nobody's telling you that. However, we both have to agree that the essence of the following things is: the effectiveness of the work, whether you responded in a timely manner, whether you were giving the right instructions, or whether you have provided the means for all of what you asked of GMOs, let's say they have to do different zones. We can still hear that some have not received reimbursements for the allowances of employees, according to those employees who are at the edge of exhaustion, for renting out premises. On the other hand, you have shared money for measures that are not directly related to the epidemic and do not address the consequences of the epidemic. Minister, all the time you choose between liking and handing out candy and expertise, that's a fact. In my opinion or in our opinion, you are mostly making the first choice, and that is to say the likeness. Let us look at some things that we should do to reduce infections and thus all the consequences that we all see and unfortunately feel. Firstly, have you prepared protocols or plans for possible scenarios based on an analysis of first-wave measures when the virus is redistributed in homes? Secondly, have you prepared a plan to separate infected residents from healthy ones, such as providing external units, such as providing mobile units, transferring infected people to hospitals? Thirdly, have you introduced regular employee testing in your homes? Fourthly, have you prepared a timely legal basis for moving public servants out of their homes without infection to their homes where the infection has increased the staffing crisis? In the first wave this was pointed out in the Community of Social Institutions and the basis for the transfer of public servants was only introduced at the end of October, with the CAP5. Fifthly, whether you have provided funds in time for the purchase or co-financing of one-month or at least three-month mandatory strategic stocks of personal protective equipment. Six, have you prepared additional instructions and measures for employees in the DSOs? It was not until October 12th that the use of the mask and the measurement of body temperature was mandatory for employees when entering their homes. The week, at the controversial direction of the Ministry of Health, then the State Secretary, that infected asymptomatic health workers, including in the DSOs, could come to work in red zones, then you were silent. And let me ask you first of all, what is fully directly related to the pests of the spread of infections in jobs where we all know that one of the major causes of the spread of infections has been, have you prepared, in due time, laws or regulations to contain the spread of the virus at work, such as incentives for work at home, a 100% hospital due to covido-19 infection, irrespective of the origin of the infection and compensation due to certain quarantine? Have you, together with the Ministry of Health, prepared an adapted model for the issue of quarantine decisions in the event of an extraordinary number of infected persons? Since you did not prepare this, the system collapsed in October, the quarantine decisions were no longer issued and the result was that the potentially infected were going to work. Unfortunately, we can answer all these questions with no. No, you haven't prepared, at least not in time, you've chosen the measures you like that that give immediate effect to the highlights and instant praise. Minister, now a few words about the budget and public finances. We know that we have had an epidemic crisis since last year, that we have been dealing with epidemic problems for a year, and unfortunately not successfully, so I must say a few words about financial work. Contrary to the global financial crisis in 2008-2009, the governments of the European Union, the European Commission and the ECB, on this occasion at the very beginning of the epidemic, have taken decisive, swift and well-coordinated measures to address the crisis. The first point of the European Commission was the activation of the general derogation clause. The Fiscal Council also allowed us to temporarily deviate from the fiscal rule when we announced the epidemic in March 2020 in Slovenia. This means, in short, that we can temporarily spend more than we can create, but I stress, only on expenditure related to the costs of the epidemic. However, in order to move away from fiscal rules, we need to take measures to reduce the consequences of the epidemic on citizens and the economy. In Slovenia we have already adopted eight PKPs, eight intervention laws, which also address positive measures such as waiting for work, working hours and work at home. However, we need to know that all these measures must be taken in a certain manner, and in such a manner, they must address as effectively as possible the areas most affected by the epidemic in individual periods. This means that we must first provide adequate resources for the health system and, in the next phase, ensure that jobs are maintained, ensure as normal as possible the functioning of the economy and thus allow for the preservation of long-term economic potential. All of this means that measures should be in line with us in order for first aid to be directed at the groups most affected by the crisis – those are companies that the government has banned from operating under the regulation, measures in the labour market, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed. And I'm asking you if you've acted in such a co-existence. In what way have you taken measures to help solve and mitigate the consequences of the epidemic? We are witnessing large budgetary expenditure with some measures that have absolutely nothing to do with coronaryism. It is a single aid to certain groups of people who have not been directly affected by the epidemic. That's very kind of you, Minister. Everyone deserves more money, and that's what we all agree on. But the means to deal with the epidemic are not meant to solve the systemic problems we have been facing for a year. This has also been pointed out by the Fiscal Council, which stresses that in the current situation there is high uncertainty, the closure of a large part of the activity is inadequate in terms of public finances and the promotion of the economy. Let me just list some of these measures, which are not related to the covid crisis, and this is a single solidarity allowance for newborns from 1 January 2020 onwards, an increased allowance for large families, transfers to pensioners who have nevertheless been socially protected, and there will be several other measures. Just in short, I will not lose words by pushing down various measures in the PKP, which have nothing to do with the epidemic, coerced by forced retirement, controversial changes in the accreditation of higher education institutions to open the way for the privatisation of public health, penalties for protesters, you have repealed the Single Price Act, not specifically you, Minister, but your government; and a number of repressive measures. And if I come back, it's a matter of dividing up some candy that you've been handing out, Minister. And as you write in your pear response to interpolation. I can't help but wonder if it's possible to relieve the conscience of an epidemic. Money is really enough right now, and it's cheap. But, Minister, you've ever wondered who this money is and why all this money has to be spent. What we have heard many times today that all this money is from the EU is true, but we can only spend European resources on measures directly linked to the covid crisis and everything else will be covered by our budget. And we're going to hide these candy bars from our budget, not from EU funds. Let me conclude, Minister. Today much has been heard about subjective and objective responsibility. Probably – I'm sure – you know what I'm talking about. That is why I will not explain what this means, but I think, and many of the facts also speak about it, also in the interpolation material, and even today we have heard a great deal from colleagues and colleagues that you are so subjectively and objectively responsible for the crime, the late action, negligence and perhaps more. You have not adequately protected the MSOs, you have not prepared appropriate labour legislation to prevent the spread of infections in the workplace, social dialogue, even though we hear how alive he is in your mandate, I do not think so, and last but not least, just for a short time, also a suspicious allocation of funds to the Honesty Institute. That's why I think we should step down, and that's why I'm going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I would like once again to draw attention to Article 75, which says that the Member can only speak about the subject on the agenda. Here I must be correct, Member, debt, fiscal rule, economic measures, all measures from the PKP that do not belong in the Ministry's department, which we are interpreting today, in my opinion, is an extensive debate. I'm really asking any further debaters to focus on the impressions from the interpretation that belong to Minister Brickler King's department. That way we can all be right for the minister. Yes, Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My procedural proposal concerns Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, you have already pointed out Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, and I also wanted to point out that colleague Zabret of course mentioned public finances, a fiscal rule, which is not a matter of today's interpretation. I'll be right back. I think that she has asked questions about the Minister's interpretation alone, so I propose that you, in accordance with your competence as referred to in Article 73(1), be suspended for 10 minutes so that the Member may read once again the Minister's reply to the interpretation, where all the evidence described is very detailed and also the answers to their questions. This was highlighted by both colleague Zabret and colleague Korča. I request a ten-minute interruption so that they can read the response to interpolation again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iva Dimic. With all due respect, I find your motion of procedure somewhat ridiculous and will not interrupt the meeting in 10 minutes. If we are purely real, in ten minutes we cannot study the response of Mr. Brickler King, who has quite a few tables, tables, calculations and so on. This is a pointless proposal and I reject it. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Iva Dimic, I'm not interrupting this session. Now, if you don't mind, we'll proceed with the debate. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word. But get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I'll try to focus as much on interpolation as possible. Let me start by saying that interpellation as an institute is the tool by which it actually identifies the responsibility of ministers to manage their headquarters. This is not about any speculation, this is not about the opposition being evil, but it is about drawing attention to certain shortcomings, mistakes, perhaps the poor conduct of the minister and the ministry; and, of course, it also requires some responsibility. In the previous interpretation of the school minister – and I believe that he will do so – you can tell us that we cannot bear the fact that we are not in power, that we are insulted, oh and at all, and that we are of course taking advantage of these institutions long and long. When you were in the opposition, these funds were allowed, in fact, all the funds. And now that we're using them, everything's actually wrong. I think it's obvious that you've been in this opposition for too long or maybe too long and you think these levers belong to you alone. If we turn this around, I can't really imagine what would happen if we were in power in this state and these numbers. And I wonder how many interpretations, non-trustful ones, and I don't know what else you'd write. If you just look at the numbers, how many referendums have been called or have you called them in the opposition. Let me help you – 19, which cost us 40 million euros. And now I can say in the style of Mr Rebersk: How many homes could we build for the elderly with these 40 million euros? And now that you're in the coalition or in power for a short time, you've actually accepted, I think it's already 7 or 8 laws for which the referendum is not even allowed. I think you've also filed six constitutional charges. And here I ask Mr. Rebersk what is the place of time and money for interpretations. I think it's a legal institution that the opposition can serve, and you have absolutely every right to defend yourself and to show the opposite. And this is where the story has to end, actually. However, I have a feeling that the coalition thinks that these interpretations were available or justified only when we were in government or not. Our Minister, mentioned several times today, perhaps more than the current Minister, Anja Kopač has experienced two interpretations. And in your opinion, they were completely justified, but not today, or how. And this is where we end up with us being insulted, doing these interpretations both in and out and oh and in and out. Interpellation has been written, and the distinguished minister has also given an answer to these findings, and in this direction the debate should also proceed. I might mention in a few sentences first the Department of Honesty. I am assessing that there would be no problem, in fact, if there were no, distinguished minister, between you and this institution. Actually, there wouldn't be any problem. But this connection existed and exists and is quite strong. As a co-founder you were active in this institution, in fact you became a co-founder 12 years after this institution was established, and somehow you are said to have stepped out of this three days before the act of minister. However, the project agency also finances your immediate member, and it also shows here some moral controversy and, I can say, duality. And if, on the one hand, we compare this story that I have told you and the statement that you are giving to the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vesel, and you are also co-signed under the terms of the meeting of the Commission of Mandate and Choice, at which you will propose that the President of the Court of Auditors, Tomaž Vesel, ceases to function as a result of the additional service he performs in relation to football or sports. Okay, these are double criteria. Maybe it's both of them. Both of them disputed. However, you see nothing wrong with the coalition as regards the allocation of these funds to the Office of Honesty, but in the case of the Court of Auditors everything is wrong. And it also shows that somehow you did not switch, that you were no longer the opposition and that these instruments were given to the opposition not only by God but by all. The second area to be touched is the epidemic and, of course, the functioning of the ministry and the minister in this regard. The fact is, the results of the epidemic are terrible. There are many dead, especially among the wider and older populations and in nursing homes. Older people were most likely to stay in their homes despite infections in nursing homes. Hospitals were sent only when the situation was critical, which for people with associated diseases, which of course home providers are often, and for people of high age it is often fatal. A lot of them died at home, and they didn't even come to the hospital. The numbers have been highlighted several times, but despite everything. If we find out that 4 000 222 died, there were 2 000 57 providers of senior citizens' homes, representing 49% of them all. At the same time, I would also like to point out how the government has defined the prices of the patients concerned, namely one patient in a hospital of €8,000 and only €80 or €81 in an elderly citizen's home. And here's the big difference and also the discrimination of everything. And I understand, given your performance, that you inherited the condition you described. However, part of the profession has been drawing attention to possible solutions in the homes of older citizens, drawing attention to adequate ventilation systems and also to the importance of ventilation. In particular, during the period between the first wave and the second wave, this was an opportunity to be heard and, on the basis of this, many lives could be preserved if, for example, some tireless but more or less unsuccessful warning by Mr Villar about ventilation were taken into account. And I myself, at some point in October 2020, sent a question to the Government, in which I pointed out that every epidemic that spreads either through air or water divides into two stages, the first phase referring to the time when the virus is in the air and the second the time the virus enters the body. And so the first phase is best known by experts in engineering, physics, architecture, design, and the second phase, of course, medicine, chemistry, biology. And in controlling this epidemic, we can see that all the key moves have been made only by medical experts, not by those professions that I previously counted. Somehow I received an answer from the Government that, of course, ventilation of these homes is important for the elderly and also for all other facilities where there are more people, including schools. But somehow it travels to a solution – open windows. But to do something systemic in our homes, of course, somehow we didn't find any money. And at the end of the reply, the Government writes to me that responsible persons in health and welfare institutions must ensure that technical personnel are also aware of the recommendations and their application in everyday practice. I believe that we still have time or have time, and the government has time to think about ventilation systems in the homes of older citizens, because this would certainly reduce the victims, even in the future, which could still happen at the third or I don't know which wave. As far as home is concerned, I keep hearing that the minister will build 5 homes for the elderly, that it is obvious that we who have been in power for so long and so long have not built any homes. I might say once and for all or a little naively, and point out certain facts that indicate what was done even at the time we were in power. It is true that the last new homes for older and new public institutions in Ljubljana and Maribor were built and established in 2004 and, of course, in 2005, the House for Older Citizens in Tezna. Then there were the following investments and the new construction of homes for the elderly: 2007, construction of a legacy in Trebnje, then 2008 in Slovenian Konjice, construction of a unit in Lendava in 2010, construction of a foundation in Grosuplje in 2011, construction of a unit for dementia in 2012 in Rakičan, 2013 in Šmaru pri Jelša, 2014 – co-financing the construction of a dislocated unit in Metlika, then co-financing the construction of a unit for dementia in 2014 in Kočev, also in the Ljutomer building of the residential unit Stroča Vas, then the purchase of a property for the unit Bakovci 2018 in Rakičana, then co-financing the construction of a unit of the House of Pensioners Center Tabor-Poljane Ljubljana, Rosa Cube in 2020. And if we look at how much money there was and what investments were: in 2010 5 million 700, 2011 2 million 100, 2012 million 800, 2013 2 million 200, 2014 3 million, 2015 3 million 900, 2016 344 thousand, 2017 2 million 100 and 2019 1 million. It is true, as the Minister says about capacity, that they have not increased to the extent that they could be expected in terms of investments in periphery or additional units, but we need to know that these investments have largely resolved the spatial distress of multiple rooms. I hope that we were able to explain a little bit that nothing was built at home, no investment and so on; and if you count it on your thumb, it's like beautiful millions. I think that in this Chamber, in fact, we all want these things to be settled, that it would be home enough for the elderly to have the price fit and so on. However, there is a fundamental difference between us, which is that the slightly more right one would be to privatize this network, as you do in health care and education, which is, of course, to those who are slightly more left-handed, unacceptable and would like this construction in the public system, the same for everyone. And it's kind of unacceptable to you. And of course, that's why we don't come together and then things don't happen the way that everyone actually wants to. And as for the end, as a home Member, I can't possibly pass construction at home for the elderly in Osilnica. Everyone in the past has been alerting this house, including me. I've tried this before with former Minister Klampfer. This is the way it is in this government, too, so I have asked, Your Honor, a question to the Minister, 28th time. 1. where I wrote that in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2020-2022, the current ruling coalition, of course the signed SDS, SMC, Nova Slovenija and Desus parties, was committed to build or complete a home for the elderly in Osilnica. Based on all the data, it shows that this will not happen. The Municipality of Osilnica has fulfilled all the conditions required of them both in the previous government and in the current government. First, they assigned the congregation to look for a home that would take over the future home in Osilnica as a dislocated unit. The congregation fulfilled this requirement, finding a suitable home that was willing to take over a new home under its wing. Then came the second thought that because of the distance this home would not be full or the capacity at home would remain incomplete. The Osilnica municipality has also fulfilled this condition in a way that it has made a public inquiry into the interest of future suppliers; and has received 71 potential applications. This, with the planned capacity at home of 80 to 90 beds, represents enough employment for the operation or for the cost-effective operation of such a home. And then came the third thought that home wouldn't have enough expertise. In response to this question, the congregation registered 22 requests from medical professionals who were interested in working in this house in Osilnica. And when these conditions were met, the ministry found new obstacles and suggested that it would be better to organise a nursing hospital and not a home for older citizens, because this would not be functional. And they instructed the congregation to start talking to the Ministry of Health. All of this points to the situation that just puts some activity into another area, thus running out of time, an investment that is at some stage is failing. That is why it would be right, given what we have heard, that the Minister will build five houses in this mandate to define and publicly explain what is now going on with the home of the elderly in Osilnica – it will not, will not. In the end, I also have to say that, indeed, many of you have asked about this house in Osilnica, even yourself. You got the answer, I haven't answered it yet. 28. 1. I have asked the question of the Member of Parliament, today we are 18, soon it will be two months, I do not have the answer yet. Maybe it's a mistake, maybe it's a burden, but they're moving these things that are a little bit less important than the ones they have; but I would still ask the minister to give me an answer as soon as possible. And finally, the Minister-designate would be right, for the third time now, we are calling for you to explain the 74 million obvious, confirm or reject this obvious. And what did my friend Reberšek say? #Equalizing all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Prepare yourself, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! First of all, let me start by saying that I will not support the interpretations against the Minister of Labour. As we listen today and also in the interpellation, there are four eyewitnesses that the opposition somehow makes clear and imposes responsibility on him. One of these observations, or main, is the key problem that we are constantly dealing with, is the long delay and actual neglect of the care of the elderly, the treatment of them in nursing homes and, above all, the non-realisation of long-term care. As I have already said in my position, we have in fact fallen on this mature exam all the government's past, and we have also fallen as a society as a whole. But there is no way that we can impose this responsibility on a minister who, in fact, ministered only in the last year and who actually ministered in exceptional, extraordinary and unpredictable circumstances. If anyone, you are more responsible for the current situation in the homes of some of the signatories to this interpretation, I mean especially those who have been leading this resort for more than ten years. We've been preparing different things for the interpellation itself. I patted myself and checked things on the ground, or else I'm always connected to the ground somehow. One of the directors of home for the elderly told me exactly: “Just as this mandate was designed to support homes has not been in place for many years.” At this time, according to this year covida-19, they received additional resources for additional jobs, so for regular employees, special public works were signed, they also covered the costs for student, student work, then they paid them all the allowances, of course the supplements are refunded, so they are sometimes delayed. They also received reimbursements for unoccupied capacity, so that all these additional costs were not on the shoulders of the elderly or their relatives, but were taken over by the state. And we have also confirmed this in the PKP packages. The regional teams also worked, so managers and employees had to turn to someone when they needed an opinion on how to move the infected. As it is said, unoccupied capacities were covered by care, i.e. by the Ministry of Labour, while they were not by health. Every week, they told me, they also had conferences, and at these conferences they were always welcomed at the beginning either by the Minister or by the Secretary of State. And also this extraordinary moral support meant a lot to them. During this time, as he himself said and as we could follow him, the minister also personally visited quite a bit of home for the pensioners. Among other things, I was told that in our parts, i.e. in northeastern Slovenia, because we had quite a meeting on this subject last year, there are actually no waiting types, which I had warned you about at the time. Now this has proved even more true because some may not hope to give, because visits are still a little limited, but waiting lines are not available and are free of capacity. If anyone needs this option, in our end, in north-eastern Slovenia, there are therefore these possibilities for immediate admission. I would like to commend that in our congregation there was also very good cooperation at home of pensioners who are municipal and state institutions, this is the Psychiatric Hospital Ormož, where the home had its red zone. And as was previously restricted several times, the proposer warned about what it would mean if more houses were built. Certainly, if there were more homes and even if the rooms were not four-bed rooms, but one-bedroom rooms, it would certainly be very helpful to infect the epidemic, because in various articles we can read that the key to infecting the separate red zones and the rapid tests; and the rapid tests, as we know, we only got somewhere in November. Certainly would have additional capacities at home and also different homes, smaller, with multiple units, which in fact we have been hearing about deinstitutionalization for 10, 20 years, and this is also the goal that these are not large columns with no idea how many people, with no idea how many people in the rooms, this would certainly help to infect the spread of the virus. And the ministry, the government, the current minister provided 30 million, as we have heard, for five additional homes in the approved budget. It was awarded at this time, so this year at the beginning of the year, a concession for a thousand 100 beds, 20 million is provided, so the tender is already out, for temporary and daily capacity, that is more than it has been in the last ten years together. We were also told that we were saying everything else, not what was evident in the interpretation. Yes, you're basically four points to the minister, so you want to put four responsibilities on him, but I think it's also right to tell those other hundred or more things, which is very good and excellent; not only are we stressing the four that you think is not possible to do them best. If I touch the Department of Honesty. We had a thematic session on this topic a month or two ago. I think the Minister has explained very well and in detail that, as has already been said today, before the ministry, he has excluded himself from the institutions of the institution, that he did not participate in the invitation to tender itself. If his employees were involved, of course, this is logical, and he did not sign the conclusions either. Finally, we have adopted one decision on this committee, which is four, but one of these four is mentioned: the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the Commission to prevent corruption to examine the possible suspicions of corruption risks associated with the personal involvement of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities in the public call for the co-financing of projects to assist the most vulnerable groups of people due to the covida-19 epidemic and to reduce its consequences. The Commission will certainly examine this and then we will be able to know the most relevant if there were any suspicions or not at all. I believe it's not. What the Minister has already explained to us on the committee itself and also in response to the interpretation, I therefore believe that there were no such corruption risks. Then you also report to the Minister non-cooperation with the Economic and Social Council. You're reading to him the ones that were most warned in the previous coalition in the SMC to give laws to the Economic and Social Council, but you didn't want to give them. That was the case with the minimum wage, when we raised the hourly rate for students, and now you're reading out this non-cooperation to the minister, although he even ran the Economic and Social Council for the first six months, and today he's presented us with data on how many meetings there have been. How successful was someone in these, that is, how, which of the partners; all of them cannot be. There are coordinations, there is always, one must give up a little, the other may be a little bit more, but you cannot say that these coordinations were not held. [[…]] Then I would like to say, however, with these readings that you mentioned, as I said, that the Minister of Labour has a great deal of attention for the area he covers. Even with the PKP packages, said earlier in the debate, a good minister must recognise and correct mistakes. It has always been repaired in the PKP packages, as we have found that it may have slipped out or was not the best. For example, when our full-year students fell out, he immediately listened, in the next package, to repairs, then the crisis allowance, which we approved to the employees, 200 euros, then fell out in December because they had paid their annual work performance, and the Ministry of Finance interpreted that this annual performance was part of the salary and that it should not be paid for then. He listened to it, too, and we fixed it in the next package. I then appealed to the Ministry and to the Minister that the participants of public works working in pension homes should also receive allowances to work with these visible patients. He also arranged this, so that employees through public works also have this supplement. But most of all, I am happy to say that, in fact, yesterday, I realized that I also realized the parliamentary initiative I had given months ago. As a longtime consultant for the unemployed, I have found that the biggest problem with employment is if a person is mobile. That's what's most pronounced in the countryside. And months ago, I took the initiative of a Member with all the reasons why it would be good for the Employment Office to allow the driver's examination of the B category of unemployed persons to be carried out during its courses, which it covers; and this matter is realized. The Employment Office has already published a catalogue, the first auto schools have signed up, the first conclusions have been issued and the possibility will exist that unemployed persons who have been looking for employment for some time will, of course, be provided with criteria for this, the Employment Office can cover the costs of driving examination. This is the biggest obstacle to employment or one of the major health problems they have. I didn't think it would ever come true, but the minister listened and realized the matter. And there's something else I'd like to warn you. During that time, we passed two opposition laws. I have to say, when I came into politics two and a half years ago, the saddest thing was that when the opposition law was introduced, and it was good, we had to look at the reasons why it wasn't good and why it wasn't good. This isn't happening in this coalition. The main thing is not happening, and the Minister of Labour gave twice a positive opinion on two laws, to which, of course, the government also gave a positive opinion. This was the Employment Rehabilitation Act that our colleague from the SD filed, which also did not sign for this interpretation, and he knows why he didn't give it. Because, as it is said, the Minister has a hearing and we have adopted his law on employment rehabilitation and we have improved it together, we have worked very well with him, with the Ministry of Labour, with the government, with the coalition, this is the right way of cooperating and such a way of cooperation I would like to always, and especially now at the time of the epidemic. Unfortunately, many times this is not possible, mainly by the opposition at this time. The second law was the ZPIZ law, which will be discussed next week in the third reading. It was also submitted by the opposition. Together we have improved it, improved it, adapted our coalition contract. It's also attached to this area. The Minister listened, and together there was a solution, and then the law would be adopted. He also heard that we had arranged this anomaly in order to achieve his working age, this injustice that the people who had acquired their working time by 2012 had not been treated as well as the others, although they had not been warned at the time that this period would ever be otherwise defined, that it would not be a working time, but a retirement period, and that there would be differences in retirement and deductions. We have also eliminated inequality in farmers. I must say that in this area, because I cover this area all the time, and I know it from before, we have done a great deal with this minister. And I thank him for all that listening. I believe that we will do more because I do not believe that today's interpolation will succeed. As I say, I won't support her on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u55	Thank you very much. One of the first things that came to the floor was the proposaler, who took precedence over the minister. Here you go, Mrs. Korce.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u56	I have to respond to my predecessor. If someone is following us now, then he probably doesn't even know that he belongs to a SMC party, because he talks about what hasn't been done, but he belongs to a party that – yes, this could be a political excuse – has changed its political direction very much for 4 years, but has led the government with 36 Members. From SMC's point of view, the fact that everything was not made alive was a bit of an argument. Then the colleague also said that the responsibility was not to seek out the minister. But where can we find political responsibility for the situation? Where did the political decisions come from? And what we read to the Minister should be his political decisions, which were not. And because of his lack of action, his failure to act, his late action, the situation is what it is. Of course, the minister is part of the government, which is a collective body, here he can dispel responsibility, and the fact is that we can list indefinitely what the minister or this government has divided among people. But the fact is that it is the easiest job to open a bag and say – we will give so much to every pensioner, so much to every student, so much allowance for large families and so on. Okay, you've decided to pour the candy. While worrying about what future generations will have to do with this or how they will have to repay these debts, no one sees it. But we are seeing what is irreparable, and this is that the government has collectively caused an epidemic, and a large part of these consequences have fallen into the homes of older citizens. The fact is that something must have gone terribly wrong with the government’s actions to Surs, Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 8. 1. 2021 stated that the death toll in 2020 was the largest since World War II. Excess mortality, an excess of the number of deaths compared to the average number of deaths in the previous years in the same period, amounted to 18.1% in 2020. And compared to other countries after excess mortality, 90% was exceeded in three countries: Poland, Bulgaria and Slovenia. And this is some kind of collective transportation, something must have gone wrong. And in homes, the percentage of deaths fell to 53% of all the deaths we recorded due to covid-19. The International Comparison of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, if we look at 100 beds in homes compared to other countries, Slovenia has a coefficient of 9.5. You know, it's the highest coefficient between all countries. And this is an analysis of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, 8 February 2021. These are the consequences. Today, however, the minister has been faced with many times with the causes of these consequences. And the reasons are inconclusive. However, there was still no argument to reject the findings. And political responsibility, which is such a very imaginary concept, is at least one of the responsibilities that must be assumed in such cases. The ministers have resigned for minor matters. The criteria were set — from today’s perspective — for minor matters. And that doesn't mean anything if you take responsibility. More than that, it shows its greatness. All the consequences that this leaves on people don't come to an end. With the Minister's resignation, these things won't go away. These things are in our society. What went terribly wrong remains and has consequences today, and will have consequences in the future, because I am not deliberately touching the indirect effects that arise today because they are immeasurable; and I will not read them to the Minister. But we all know that these effects will undoubtedly be, the effects of how people came later or did not come to the treatment of other disease situations; how the difficulties arose also because the relatives had no contact with the caregivers; how some of the caregivers who were infected, and how thank God he healed, would have consequences, or would have consequences. There are also so-called suspended deaths due to infections and more. But since I don't have numerical data, because I don't have exact facts in this area, I didn't go into indirect effects. The direct effects are now known and someone is responsible. The government as a whole, to get out of control, and the minister in that part that belonged to his department. And these are homes for older citizens, where his responsibility is definitely, undoubtedly already demonstrated today; and on the other hand, the spread of infections in jobs where the minister, that was only under his department, did not make any moves to prevent the spread of infections in jobs. Instead, he found himself in the PKP. A colleague also said that it was necessary to mention the hundreds of things he had done. Yes, but we are here today because he did not perform the key task he had, and it is during the summer time to prepare homes for older citizens on the second wave. A mission to protect the most vulnerable. The task of putting matters in the labour law is to motivate workers to stay at home rather than to be punished; and that employers would also have the motive to stay at home. Thus, we had a period when quarantine decisions were not issued and the employer had no other basis for keeping the worker at home. It will be difficult to state that he has passed two opposition laws, but it will be difficult to conceal the political responsibility enshrined in the interpretation. Or we could call another session or you could call it in and present the achievements of Minister Brickler King. But we're here today because he didn't do his basic job; he wasn't sharing candy. It's the easiest job. But being a minister isn't easy. It's definitely not easy being a minister. But when you take over as minister and when you realize what you've taken over, you have to act by putting things in your place to make decisions. In politics, it is sometimes necessary to make a decision, not only to be attractive and to speak beautifully, but to make the right moves at the right time. And if you don't do it and the consequences are the way they are today, then you haven't done your job, then you have to take political responsibility for your inaction, your inequity, your late behavior. Of course, this doesn't fix the consequences that are terrible, 2 000 58 dead caregivers, but you take at least political responsibility, that's a minimum. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before he gets the floor, Minister, Mrs. Žnidarič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have something to explain because our SMC party and my debate have been mentioned. Our current minister, Minister Klampfer, ran this department for only a year and a half, and then you threw the rifle into the corn, so she couldn't do much in this good year. It is true that before this, SMC led the entire government, but the ministry led, as I said in the debate, ten years SD. And each minister himself fights for financial resources and the Minister sets priorities for what he will do in his field. Certainly not the SMC led the long years of this department when we adopted these laws, I said that we solved the injustices of acquiring the period before 2012. The faults of farmers were made from 1984 to 1991. These are the old injustices we've fixed. I do not agree that we have now completely changed our position. But it is true that some of us have come from the field, we know a certain area well, and we can do more in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Now he wanted the word, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would start at the end, although Mrs Žnidarič does not need me to take her to the defense, because she is very strong and reasoned; but I would still take her to the defense, which someone has pointed out to her. I would warn you that life is not a static category, it's dynamic. And the human race has the greatest advantage in this world, because we can also respond quickly and effectively to change. Thank you, Ambassador Žnidarič, for pointing out all aspects of the operation and also objectively. But you have no regrets or negative exposure. I am also more on this side of the approach to discourse. Several questions and challenges have arisen. More towards the end of the Wrote and the Osilnica; or the Wrote before, now is the Osilnica. I am pleased that the High Council has recognized the importance of including these two locations in a coalition contract. And this is a serious document for us. And if the Warfare and the Slayer are in the coalition contract, then it is my duty and my team's duty to do everything we can to ensure that these commitments under the coalition contract are fulfilled. Spinning, I can say that the vast majority of responses, when it became information on how to solve the matter, were extremely positive. I am also familiar with the responses in the field and the responses were in the sense that after fifteen years shame is finally regulated. 15 years of shame will become a matter of the pride of the region and of the local community. Above all, the possibility of setting up for those who are still in need. And I can tell you that this government – which coalition Members are really pushing and holding us accountable, which is right, which is right – knows what our duty is. Moreover, I remember, as I said at the outset, that objective also identifies someone from the opposition, and this is public. A fellow Member from that area is months ago, I think he was, not just holding me to the floor, May, he asked me in the National Assembly to really solve this. Otherwise, he said he'd be closer to it if we went with the state investment, but he'd understand, and he'd be very happy, however we could solve it. And believe me, we're going as fast as we can with our team, so that things can be dealt with as quickly, as effectively as possible. It is not enough for you to solve the matter, but it must also be sustainable in the medium, long-term and as comprehensively as possible. That's our guide. We've been working very intensively on this. At this point, we are looking for content that will be sustainable in the medium and long term. And we have some good promises for that. I can assure you. One of the Members or Members asked me about the follow-up that led us to take measures – all of us, for the labour market, for the most vulnerable groups, the economy. I can tell you that this is an agreed follow-up at European level, and the Presidents of the governments have coordinated them before the time. And this is the next, first the life and health insurance of people; then the assistance to the economy and the preservation of jobs; then the rest. And this is what we're following at the Ministry of Labour, and the whole government is following. I am sorry that assistance to the most vulnerable is somehow trying to take effect and value. But people understand the message. The first government that did not solve banks, capital backgrounds, is a government that has understood the needs of people and has given money to people for real hardships, to alleviate real hardships and consequences. And I stand behind it and people feel it. Someone made fun of the videoconference. Home leaders for the elderly said that videoconferences were such a good thing to propose that we also maintain them after the epidemic for various aspects of home operations for the elderly or all social welfare institutions. In the current experience, we all experience this, including the respected National Assembly, this opportunity to participate via videoconferencing, as far as I am aware, I believe that we will draw a positive issue from this epidemic. I believe that our work will be transformed into future meetings, at least hybrid meetings, if not to a greater extent via videoconferencing. I am certainly agreeing that we are also connected with institutional protection operators or all social security institutions through this option. Someone told me that when I spoke, I thought that, in May or June of last year, about the personnel, the premises and the personal protective equipment, I was entrusted with it myself. Speaking of personnel, premises and personal protective equipment, I was focused on personnel, premises and personal protective equipment. I think I can answer that. One thing is extremely important. Concessionists are part of a public network in Slovenia, concessionaires are part of a public network. And those who demonize concessionaires, because I did not set up this relationship between concessionaires and government homes decades ago; but I have assured myself that the team remains committed to keeping the balance of offer at half 50:50. Why a quarter more expensive for concessionaires? Because their investment in a home is at a price. And what did the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia say? That it would be only right and fair for national homes to be considered a price. Since we do not yet have such a tradition and because in Slovenia the budget is expected to cover certain costs each time, of course this does not count for national homes; and therefore the difference in price. At the same time, as Minister of Labour, I am responsible for allowing people the freedom to choose how to install. However, I think that we can all agree together that it is the worst if it is not possible to choose either the concessionaire or the state. That's the worst chance we've got, and we're here somewhere. I have seen that the human resources, financial and, above all, spatial issues or this neglect of the last good decade have nothing to do with the response to the epidemic. How's he doing? Ask epidemiologists how best to stop the spread of the virus. With withdrawal, with isolation, with self-insulation. About 12% of rooms in institutional protection providers are still 3- or multi-bed. If not the other, honourable Members and Members, my predecessors would be responsible at least for investing at least in raising the standard of these rooms, if not already in additional accommodation, if not in additional accommodations due to needs, due to demographic image. I will also quote Dr Aloyz Ihan, who was on the committee for work, here we sat for two days with his colleague, Mr Gantar, on 9 June 2020. Dr. Ihan was sitting there, and he pointed out, quote: “Of course, at the end of the day, we must be aware that the only thing that saves homes for the elderly from situations like those in Šmar near Jelša and similar crises is that there is no epidemic among the population. Although we already know a little more about the virus, there is still too little to be able to achieve once the epidemic reaches 10% of the disease, so that anyone can stop the incursion into hospitals and the homes for the elderly. Nowhere in the world have they done that, and we won't have it anywhere. So, the basic reason that we had an intrusion into only a limited number of homes for the elderly is that we managed to keep the disease at a very low level. If we succeed in the fall then with certain measures, of course we can also succeed with regard to the home for the elderly. If we fail to do so, they have all the preventive measures of some efficiency ceiling and, of course, we will have a lot more of these stories. But I hope not.” End of quote. Expert, immunologist. Three more challenges, I have written down the questions that have emerged in this debate – previous governments and previous ministers and €74.5 million for studies. The Court of Auditors carried out a review of whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health were in the period from 1. 1. 2007 to 30. 6. 2018 successful in ensuring the accessibility and accessibility of social protection services. Or rather, it wanted to answer the question whether the Republic of Slovenia adequately cares for those who, due to age, mental or physical harm, need the help of others. The Court of Auditors held that the State’s concern for providing assistance to all in need during the period covered by the audit was not satisfactory. It follows from the audit report of 16 September 2019 that, inter alia, the governments of the time, the IMF and the MZ had not adequately planned a new long-term care system. It also follows that the government has earmarked as much as €74.5 million for projects that are only intended to demonstrate whether long-term care solutions are appropriate or not. This is, according to the Court of Auditors’ assessment, a disproportionate cost compared to the necessary resources to ensure the lack of capacity. These are the sections of this opinion of the Court of Auditors. I was told about the minimum hourly rate for the temporary and occasional work of students and students. The Public Finance Balance Act (HUJF) provides that when the minimum wage is changed, the Minister responsible for the work shall determine a new amount of the minimum gross hourly rate for the work of students and students. Our ministry is immediately at the time of the change in the amount of minimum wage for 2021, which we published 28. 1. 2021 late in the afternoon, starting with the prescribed procedure for determining the minimum amount of the hourly item. The amount was set at 29. 1. and has been sent to Official Gazette 10 following the mandatory stages of the procedure. 2. 2021. I think the facts speak for themselves. In the debate, someone also pointed out that we were reducing funding for scholarships. Just the opposite. On the contrary. Members and Members, for the new recipients of Zois' scholarships, we have committed half a million more in this tender, a total of 3 million and a half. There were also several beneficiaries in the previous year, 3,000 more in state scholarships. We have also paid more for this purpose, but I have to tell you, this is the fact that the state grant, which is a social category, is given at least by the beneficiary. So I'm not gonna brag about it, and I don't think it makes any sense that they're coming out to me. The amount has increased, but if it fell, the minister did not lower it, because there would be fewer beneficiaries, but the amount and number of beneficiaries increased. But it is true that human resources scholarships have suffered a setback due to the crown of the situation. I got a report from SAB on the fall in GDP. I'm grateful that he pointed out this because I think he went on the wrong assumption. At the end of the year, Umar made it clear that, according to their analyses, government measures for the labour market and the economy had mitigated this decline by at least 3.5 percentage points. At least 3.5 percentage points. The fall was due to the crown of the epidemic and the consequences of this crown of the epidemic on the Slovenian, European and global economies; not because of measures, ladies and gentlemen. The fall of GDP was due to the crown of the epidemic, the pandemic. Call for tender for vulnerable groups. Someone also compared me to the President of the Court of Auditors. I do not know what kind of voluntary function is his, I know that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, are also volunteers. I was myself, and I'm probably going to be such a volunteer in the future who's still got gas on his own, that is, a volunteer who invests his own private money in being able to perform one function voluntarily. I don't think there was a comparison in place, because the numbers that are so different for compared people that I can't even imagine them. My type of volunteering, the one I know both in the scouts and everywhere else, was – and I know that the vast majority of you, colleagues and colleagues, and our citizens are also doing this type of volunteering – that we invest our money in being able to work voluntarily. And I know that our hearts are so open with all of us that we donate to the organizations we believe in.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is given by Jerco Korča, the proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u62	Yeah, I gotta take this. First of all, Minister, you said concessionaires were part of a public network. That's right. However, we should strive to strengthen the public network, i.e. public homes, not just concessionaires, because the concessionaire is always the one who fills a gap, some mango that arises in an area where the state cannot provide services in an area for a period of time. I will not let go, why, as I have said before, a course such as this was adopted in 1997. But there is some fact, and here again is your responsibility. When you mentioned Spin – Why did you choose to turn around, which could become public, only public, sell and then concession to the private? Even the councillors of the congregation have faced you with concerns that the home for management will be only an intermediary and the center will be sold in a few years' time, just like the House of Solars in Maribor. As you yourself said, provision for concessionaires is more expensive, say in a public house for a demented 775 euro, the same provision for the concessionaire for a thousand 393 euros, i.e. EUR 609. And you chose a home for which the government of Marjana Sharca predicted that it would become public, sell to a private and grant a concession. We have seen in public records that the country has broken its promise and that instead of reviving the centre with public budget resources, this house will be sold to the private. And by doing so, the home, which was built and could be immediately given to this public work, and thus helped to ensure that the caregivers could receive more affordable care, landed in the hands of a private person, and then you awarded him a concession. And as you yourself have found, yes, the prices are higher because the suppliers in the homes of the concessionaire also cover the concessionaire's loan. And it will be the same here – but you had already built a home on the tray, for which the past government had predicted to include it or become a public home. You've decided on a different path. And there's another thing I need to respond to. You said earlier that you didn't provide external units because this media use happened, and then you moved away from that idea. Now you have said another thing that we both agree with: that epidemiologists have said that the easiest way is to prevent the spread of infections by isolation. We agree. Therefore, it remains obvious — and there is no explanation on your part — why, when the March 27th directive was issued that the homes should take care of three zones, March 27, when you yourself say that most homes cannot do so because of their specifics, why you persisted in the impossible. Why didn't you hear the calls on July 16th when they told you that an external unit should be provided to ensure a system-wide regime? Why did you ignore the call from the consultative group on 21 July when it gave you a decision to help the home provide external units? Why did you ignore it even when the Community of Social Institutions threatened to exit as a last call? At that time they wrote: “We hope that the resignation of the competent will wake them to seriously consider the establishment of external units for the isolation of the sick.” Nothing, nothing, nothing. And today you say in some first response that it wasn't because there was a media outlet to provide external units. And secondly, you just say that epidemiologists will tell us – because we know the minister, but you have not heard the calls – that it is best to prevent the spread of the infection by isolation. And that's what everyone warned you about, not the opposition. Community of Social Institutions, Amnesty International, Society of Silver Strings, and many others from the field. You ignored it and insisted on the impossible. Here's your responsibility, no matter how many ministers you list back or back. Summer time was the time to set up a system system and provide external units, if you knew it was a solution. Why didn't you do it? And if you haven't done it, you've abandoned your duty and you're politically responsible. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. He'll be followed by Joseph Lenart. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Vice President. Before I begin my debate, I'd like to ask you, Minister, to clear one thing up, we'll be able to communicate more easily. It's mainly that you don't take things personally and that I don't treat you as a man today, but as a minister, a politician. Why am I even saying that? Because the moment that the candidate for minister sits in the minister's chair, whether he wants to or not, he can only be satisfied on the first day, and then never again. Then, in fact, every day has only problems. And in a way, I feel for you, in fact, with all the ministers who actually become ministers, because they take on a good part of responsibility and burden either from the past or from what awaits them on the table, and, of course, eventually what they produce themselves. I listened very carefully today to most of the debates, but especially to the Minister. And I must say, I was a little disappointed, at least in one part, you used those political grips because they sound good. Let's say I give one example – we didn't invest in banks, but we decided we'd invest in weaker and more like that. At the same time, Minister, there is no banking crisis today. Banks have too much money, and they don't even know where to go with it. I don't know why the banks would even solve why you even mentioned it. Don't be surprised. I answer only to your parables that you gave in your debates. Why am I saying this? I speak mainly because I don't like you as a minister using methods that aren't cool. I have to say that I have thick skin, I can handle everything, a lot of things, but people who watch this on TV don't understand the very best that we're actually talking about here today; except that they understand very literally what someone says. Let's get to the point. I also agree with you in the part where you said that you do not agree when you mentioned the information in the Court of Auditors' report that 74 million for studies is really little too much for long-term care. I sign. I agree with you completely. But it can't be an excuse to repeat today what will happen, because I'm very interested and I'm waiting for the day when you come with the long-term care law, and especially waiting for you to determine what you're missing, which is the most important thing in the whole story. It's not a problem with the law to write content and so on, but it's a problem when you have to say publicly how much it costs and where the resources will be for long-term care. And this is a problem that each minister had suffered before, and so some preferred studies were ordered because they did not know how to start with this material and how to actually distribute it. We can both agree that the social security component is one of the most complex systems in terms of financial work, because it is so complex, and this is also noted by the Court of Auditors, that I fear that a number of services have been paid even twice. Even paid twice. But we haven't done that in all these years, and no one has ever been able to tell the difference. Will you know? I don't know, at the end of my term I'm going to look you in the eye and maybe I'll ask you if you've taken this step forward. But I fear, I fear that politics – because I agree with my colleagues who have said that each minister has his own policies that he carries out, sets them up and gives them a certain advantage – that the policy in the field of home care, as you have set it up, I fear that you will do the same as they do or have done the predecessors before you. And you're going to swim in the end, and you're going to be, because you did it, and because you're going to find that you didn't solve the problems, you're going to find a thousand, and one reason that every politician will always find in the end, why some things didn't work out. You know this saying by Winston Churchill: I know what I will do in one day and in ten days and in one year. And when that time comes, I can explain very well why it didn't happen. And I'm afraid you're already going this way. Arguments. When you've shown a graph and you've made a distinction between concessions and government-owned institutions, I'm afraid it's the wrong way. But that's mainly because you come from a party that just made it clear that everything that's private is better than what's public. And of course this logic drives this political current, that of course it also concretely. Concession is not about us making a balance between one and the other. Because if that were the case, we should have done it in health school a long time ago. And I hope we don't. But it is primarily and only and solely to try to solve problems where the state cannot enter, either for financial reasons or for some other reason. And that's it. The Court of Auditors has found that the price difference in household care is because they also account for the deposit and depreciation of the facility in price, but it has not only found that. You know that, Minister. It has also identified a set of irregularities and additional unnecessary charges, which are already at the price of basic care that should actually be offered, and they are not. In other words, people were being pressured to pay extra for something that had already been paid. But this is happening significantly earlier in the private sector than in the public sector. Why? Because we have other controls in the public sector. If you tell the owner in the private sector too much or anything, he'll fire you and the matter is over. The Supervisory Board in the private sector, however, sees only profit, is not interested in all the things which are of course of interest in the public sector. If I continue with the subject I've been listening to today. I think you must have been embarrassed for at least a few seconds, but if you weren't, then you have a serious problem when our fellow Member Rebecca defended you. So much nonsense as he said, I must say, I hope you're at least a little flushed, because of course he compared pears with kiwis and things like that. Let's say, let me give you an example, he mentioned programs for a ten-year period on Metelkova 6, which were funded. And I would rather quote that I will not make any mistake, that I will not do him any wrong, that "the Metelk 6 has just absorbed 43.3 million euro of public funds". But he doesn't know what resources. Of course, it immediately adds that “from 2009 to 2019, it is said in ten years, and from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia it has been designated as homes for the elderly, I am talking about adaptation and renovation, 31.8 million”. Look, we can't compare programs to investments. If we want to do this, let's get some software. Yes, do you agree with me? Investments with investments. And if we look at how much it costs – and it seems that Comrade Reberšek has no idea about the structure of the price at home, it is called care, what it actually means and who is actually paying it – I chose, for example, Deos, who is a private person because you like private people, for a 10-year period for that programme that we pay on the basis of the concession, the Health Insurance Institute paid 72 million 388. I'm only talking about one, just one, I'm talking about a 10-year period. I'm not talking about Metelk 6, which was funded by the programs. And by the way, there are some very serious and concrete programs there, but it's sad that we're going to go to a level and some people keep saying that it's some left-wing organizations because they're on Metelkov 6, because they have a seat there, that it's a matter of primitiveism and that it's a waste of money. Of course, I understand what the big boss says, then everyone likes to say it because it sounds good and good. And then you make such a discreet comparison that it's not even comparable, and then you get a win. That's why I'm saying, Minister, you should be a little embarrassed. However, of course, it is also foolish to talk about the construction and maintenance of student homes that "35 million were committed and 70.4 million for 20 NGOs with a declared left-wing agenda". If I said only NGOs, otherwise I didn't even tell which NGOs, but only said 20 NGOs, then this adjective added – “with a declared left-wing agenda”. Minister, I'd be embarrassed. I believe that when you as a minister make a call for programs, you don't work on the basis of whether someone is more left or more right. I believe you're not doing this. But your fellow Member has made this distinction and has defended you in this way, czech, New Slovenia will finance or work to stop funding some NGOs with a left-wing agenda. I think it's absurd for a Member to mention something like that in support of the Minister at all. But it seems to have become a practice, but of course it also made it clear which way it is going. What still seems important to me about this is that today we hear quite a few evaluations of how the Minister of Labour found over a thousand new beds based on concessions, and he saved it. In short, we have one quick step, how this was resolved overnight. I regret that my fellow Member, Mojce Žnidarič, is not here because she spoke before. Why am I mentioning my colleague Mojca? Especially because our once common minister, Ksenija Klampfer, has made these things very clear. Minister, correct me if I make something up. When you became Minister, you were later told that you had this at your disposal and that 450 concessions awaited you by the Ministry of Health, which Šabeder resigned because they were alive, unused, resigned to Minister Klampfer, and then 800, which the Ministry had prepared for the call. And then the government went down, and the invitation didn't come, and that's what was waiting for you. We've been waiting for you to make a call and, of course, split. And if you look at it, you'll see exactly where 450 were distributed and the rest that were in different homes. Don't get me wrong, Minister, it's not an obvious matter. It's not an omen at all. Because if we didn't, I would have asked you a long time ago what you're waiting for because you have free concessions, and let them be distributed, especially in a situation where these beds are obviously not enough. And that's the reflection and the answer why concessions are shared. When it is not possible to ensure this on the State side, concessions must be granted if, of course, they are available. But the price structure, which, of course, is composed, is clear who pays these things. And now the answer to my colleague, Rebecca, is that he seems to have no idea about these things, but he likes to deal with them so little over his eye. Investing in a home is much cheaper than maintaining and financing such a home. That's an indisputable fact. This is also one of the reasons why sometimes, especially from 2010, 2011, 2012 onwards, when the state did not actually have money, remember, Janša's government did ZUJF, where it literally shut down certain things during the night because there was actually no money; and now to expect and report to someone that it hadn't built a home for ten years, it seems very unserious to me because you all know what it's really about. It is true that today it is much easier to use a full wallet — even today we see how money is shared, of course we owe it to the fat — to talk about how much it is. We kept 300,000 jobs, he said. God have mercy on you! Tell me how many of them are in the employment office. This is important. I am not telling you, Minister, what I am saying is that you have been praised by Mr Reberšek. That's information to me. So far, 300,000 jobs. I'll see what happens when the epidemic's over and when the state aids go out. How many people will then go to the employment office and how we will then meet in this same hall and tell ourselves again what someone thought six months ago when he said he had kept 300,000 jobs. Then we will see how good and successful this policy has been. Well, Minister, you say yourself you had nightmares when you couldn't guarantee what they needed most in their homes at the beginning of the epidemic, especially in the first wave, most in the crisis. It's protective equipment and it wasn't there. But, Minister, this was not just the Republic of Slovenia's problem, it was the problem of most countries in Europe. Half the world's dealt with it, except for those who haven't had a covida-19 yet. But what's the problem? Moreover, I said once again, Norway, Belgium, these are countries that have significantly larger GDP than Slovenia, and in December they burned 6 million masks because they did not count on them to look for masks in two months. So today we talk about the predecessors, you know, I'm more interested in the results of how we're going to get out of this. I believe that in the first wave of the epidemic everyone was horrified, especially you, Minister, and another minister who was directly involved in a critical and chaotic situation. But I don't accept an apology for the second wave. I can't take this anymore. That's where you all knew what was coming. You all knew. Even more, you predicted what would happen. And that, of course, was a serious problem, because today you're all pleading that the DSOs were unprepared for this situation. I'll say otherwise, Minister – were you prepared for this situation? One of the important things is forced retirement. With the CAP, we were very loud and clear, and I remembered myself, and we warned that it was forced retirement. Your secretary of state is on television – unfortunately your secretary of state – because I do care at the end of the day, but whoever from the ministry is saying anything is always responsible, because, at the end of the day, he speaks with his permission and not least with the implementation of your policy – said the following sentence, I have remembered that and will remember to the end, because I am looking at how many young people are employed, that such retirement is just and only to give more young people the opportunity to work. Excuse me, Minister, in the short time that the law was in force, until the Constitutional Court stopped it and we warned you that the constitutional issue was disputed. Otherwise, we don't know what the verdict will be, that's a fact, we're all waiting for what's going to happen, I'm personally deeply convinced that the Constitutional Court will repeal this provision, because it's really completely in conflict and it's completely unbalanced compared to all the other residents, given that someone's being forced, especially when we talked in this National Assembly a few days ago about the demographic fund and we've been talking about how older people's mushrooms are getting more and more inspired, and that those who are paying today under the Bismarck system are said to be in solidarity, for future pensions, for 1.5, if we once had 2. 1.5 — which means that they are too few and that more are recipients of these pensions. Which means and is an indisputable fact, and you know it yourself, that for pension reform we will have to extend in some way the period of those who are active today if we want to maintain the Bismarck system with additional reinforcement of the second pillar and so on, and I do not know all the measures yet. And you're going to strike immediately with a measure to force someone to retire when he completes the terms, and that's with the board's decision, because in a way you did them a favor, instead of stepping into the bar as a Minister of Labour. The Minister of Labour, in defense of the workers, you have come to the defense of what the Minister for the Economy is already working for, and this is the employer. Well, there are already two government ministers working for employers instead of at least one of them working for a worker. That's a serious problem. That you had this problem, it also knew the ESS. You're constantly explaining today that you've worked well on the ESS. I remember a statement once – where does it say that we have to agree on the ESS or that we must always be united. No, it's true, it doesn't say it anywhere, and it happens sometimes that you can't get a consensus on the ESS. This is a fact, but when you don't get a consensus on the ESS, that means – and that's what the previous ministers rarely did because they knew what it meant for one or the other partner to either withdraw temporarily from the ESS; and this has happened to us that he actually didn't have an accomplice to talk to. On the other hand, others get the workers on the road, we have strikes, which means that all the time it is a search for compromise and coordination so that we can somehow agree that something can move. Quite unwarranted, very justified. But if I listen to the press statements, I'm not on the ESS, I don't know what's going on there, but I can read through the media and listen to people who are, of course, answering the following questions, that in the last year, the way of adopting legislation and coordinating at the ESS itself has changed dramatically. This is what the unions say, and I can quote them to you, and of course - very interesting - employers also say a lot, which is also interesting, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce at the last. All of this brings us to the question that I won't speak in three beautiful words, and I'll mention who I'm talking about. Syndicalist Jakob Restavšek says: “The dialogue has gone backwards, especially with intervention legislation.” That's his statement, not mine. And if I mention, for example, Mitja Gorenščka, who told Radio Slovenia that "social dialogue was already lacking before the current minister, and now, of course, is no longer properly guided". That's not my word, Minister. That's what they say. I'm just quoting. This, of course, means that the problem is not just the opposition, the coalition, but that others see the problem. We have a serious problem. Of course, this problem can only be solved in a way if we ask the question whether the work is satisfactory or not. Interpellation, today I have heard from one of the Members, yes, clearly, from Rebecca, and who else do you need to interpret 46 votes? Minister, I remember the situation when the minister from his own party was convinced that he would do it with his left hand, and in the end, his own party gave up and pressed against him. That's why I act as if I have 46 votes guaranteed or not for every interpretation. Why? Because it is only then possible to tell the minister and confront him with certain thoughts, views and situations. That's why I'm telling every minister, he won't even know if this thing holds or not. I was disappointed with you because you haven't made any serious responses as Minister of Equality. When the magazine Democracy spoke about the intentional extermination of immigrants, when someone from your coalition made comparisons that the white one was the true race when you, the minister, somehow other than Mr. Reberšek, showed pictures on committees of what the real family is for him, it is difficult for me to see that the minister comes from a party that actually talks about differences between people, and you are the minister who should look at equality. We will never achieve perfect equality, but at least roughly. We're in the 21st century, Minister. And here, of course, I also call you from an ethical and moral point of view, that we should answer and say - but here are the limits, and here please stop. I hope you didn't make it public that you did at least internal in your client. At least internally. That's why I'm saying it's the minister's responsibility. One is what your personal beliefs are and what you do at home; the other is, of course, when you represent the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the ministry, which has a very clear title, that it will also advocate for work, that it will defend equality, and that it will also defend the disabled. Not that the disabled, I am not talking about you, Minister, I am talking about your MP who declared this today, who will use it as a commercial and to promote himself and his client. I'm going to give you an example of what I mean by that, very concretely. Today he boasted of children with special needs, how their client and he personally did a great deal and how much money they got and I don't know what else. Now I'm going to tell you something that I don't normally do because I think is unhygienic, but it seems more unhygienic to me than what this fellow Member, your colleague, has done. In fact, the parents of children who had to pay their own expenses to stay in the hospital with a sick child visited all the parliamentary groups and all the parliamentary groups asked for help to support them in changing the law where they have problems. I personally advised them and I told them very clearly – Madam, we are in the opposition, if we suggest it, it will not be accepted, believe me, it will not be. I suggest you propose this to the ruling party – New Slovenia. But I'll also tell you how to do it. And we'll support it and we'll be quiet and we won't complicate it and we won't make any trouble because otherwise it doesn't fit there. And we put this in the PKP, remember. But then I called my own colleague from the Nova Slovenija Group myself and I asked her and I explained to her, and I also said that we will not have this problem. And I added to it the phrase, I pray thee, do not boast with this; for this work shall be of all men. And don't brag where it doesn't have to be. My colleague, of course, understood and confirmed me and agreed. But my friend Reberšek does everything but do it. He promotes every time he has two minutes of time, how he arranged something that we all did in the National Assembly. One because you brought it in, the other because we didn't do any drama, and we didn't bother anything. But you know that didn't fit in the PKP at all, because that wasn't covida-19's problem. And so, Comrade Reberšek, don't do commercials and promotions on people who are already hurt anyway. And that, Minister, you know. And that's why it's not nice to listen to things like that, because then people really think that you did something and maybe you gave them something else out of their pocket in person. Come on, please. You know, politics also has one limit, where it's still delicious, that some things are still going on. I understand the political struggle here between us, I buy it all, it's no problem at all. That's why I made it very clear at first, Minister, as a man, I have nothing against you. Personally, I believe you're a very good person very much. As a politician, as a minister, unfortunately at this time, in this one year you have made some mistakes. And I tell you, because of such mistakes, directly or indirectly, depending on, ministers in high-democratic cultures resign themselves because they do not need to. And this also shows one relationship that they recognize that one thing has slipped away. Not you, Minister; the whole government should step down. But we all know we're gonna have to wait for another event. But I'm sorry that things are falling because of things that shouldn't fall. I understand, however, that my colleague Reberšek is still young and that there is something else he needs to learn.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if Minister Janez Cigler is the King, or if I'm already being intertwined. It's a shame what I said to you to respond to what you said last time. However, I must respond to the issue of job conservation. If anyone is a fighter for jobs, it must be you, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. You've proven that by your actions. You've already replaced six clients, that's six new jobs. But I'll treat you well. According to your previous practice, you never know when you're going to cross over with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I propose that we maintain the level of discussion as it has been so far. Joseph Lenart has the word. He'll be followed by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting, too, Minister, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We therefore have on the table an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for the work of Janez Cigler King by the candidates of the Members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Of course, there are many readings on these 25 pages written. I'm not saying that we have the best minister of all time ahead, but if I look at it like that, this interpellation is the legitimate means of the opposition to exercise control over the work of ministers and governments. But since this fourth one is two in a row, it can happen that in the coming year there will be no ministers who the opposition would like to interpret. The Minister is therefore aware of the ineffective action or failure to address the spread of infections in the DSOs and thus the high number of deaths of caregivers. Then that he did not do much during the epidemic or did very little and did much talking. Then he is exposed to unfaithful conduct; his fault is that employees who have been at risk of contact with the infected should not be given decisions and so on. Furthermore, it is then exposed to non-transparent activities in the case of the allocation of funds, clienteleism, support to its companies, institutions. Somehow I must say that, according to the proposaler, they were disappointed because some of them were not able to obtain funds from the tender, which was perfectly legal and by the rules. So if we go in order. The proportion of covida-19 deaths is also completely comparable in Slovenia with other members of the European Union and other countries around the world. But now I really hope that I will not be misunderstood, because every death caused by covid-19 or this modern plague is a tragedy, every death is regrettable. The full success of this government and Slovenia would, of course, be if no person died after the covido-19. But I would point out that Slovenia has the eighth largest proportion of the elderly in the world, and because of this high proportion of the elderly, of course, we also have a large number of very old people in homes for the elderly, which is over 90 years old, some are disabled, restless, then sick. Those with associated diseases who were infected with covid-19 had very little chance with this backwater disease, which I'm really sorry for. But they had little chance all over the world. And now we need to re-emphasize non-investment in the homes of the elderly in the last decade, because this area has actually become stagnant. We all know that if the homes weren't so heavily occupied, if the rooms were bigger, if they were more modern, if they could, when they started working in their so-called zones, just better demarcated, they wouldn't have so many dead. But now who's to blame for all this trouble? Perhaps even to those governments that have acted unfaithfully in the past decade, as today is evident to the minister, who have not done everything to have more cities that have not updated, that have not made a better system that has not had a happy hand in employment, which we then have very few staff. The biggest problem in the first wave, as the Minister replied, is completely unprepared in the area of social protection and care for the elderly, including financial distress, spatial distress, manoeuvring, inadequate personnel for crisis situations, but sometimes irresponsible management of DSOs and irresponsible behaviour of employees. We all know, at the time, the minister was also completely new, maybe you also need a few months to actually adapt, do a little bit of imitation, look, then your ministry employees adjust to you, and that takes some time. I think that now all the blame for this number of deaths, the sick and now, as is clear, the extremely poor citizens, is to write down and impute to the Minister of Labour, and this is too much and too unfortunate, if not already unhygienic. And now we're all wondering what else we could do better. Yeah, well, there's been some suggestions from all sides, but after the war being a hero is really easy. When you actually face such a new situation, it is difficult to deal with all knowledge and ignorance. And now I have one related thinking from interpolation to interpolation, and thinking from education to work today. What does it mean if you first tell students, students, people not to take action, or encourage them – go to the streets, go to protest a little bit – while restrictions are in place; then verbally attack, criticize police, ministers, the president of the government, they are ugly, now they are actually after citizens who are actually committing crimes, but then in the next sentence you're making too many sacrifices to the government. [[…]] This is happening to us. For all the buses of too many dead people, and to be honest, what example do we set? I think that even with that petition and human rights session, we have exaggerated, we have once again held a meeting of a quiet youth, so that next time they will demonstrate themselves again they will not stick to the measures. We are Members and some people may not like us, but some consider us to be examples. And from that out, it doesn't matter. Some think — if the Member drives too fast, why not me; if he does not follow the rules, why should I?Oh, my God! If he's having a birthday party at home, what would that be like if I had a little family? And then they don't stick to it. Young people especially tell us, because it's the most important thing for them to do, to limit things, but we won't stick to it if you don't. And I think there was a lot of bad looks on the part of the proponents. Also after the first wave, the Prime Minister's first interpretation of the government was in fact clear that there were too many funds available, and it is now clear that nothing has been done, then some duality. I must also say that these motioners have resigned from the Minister for the Work of John Cigler the King, and we all know that throughout the world covid-19 has demanded its victims, and almost the whole world has responded to a new disease as well as our government and this minister. We have made restrictions on social gatherings, restrictions on mass events, then also on all kinds of sports, entertainment, including these bans on visits in nursing homes, restrictions on transitions, then on third-party entrances. By establishing so - called gray and red zones, it was also trying to save itself somehow, but then it increased the spatial distress and so on. There have been several factors that may have led to the death of one person more, for which we must be truly sorry, but this minister is actually working and this government is looking for solutions. And this minister works one year in emergency situations, and if we're not fair, if we want to attribute all these mistakes to him, that, of course, sometimes he also had to improvise, somehow look for solutions; then you can barely see over time whether they gave or didn't give results. I don't want to be too much of a mathematician now and something here to say as much as it might be less, but it is certain that because of a very very old population we also have a few more fatalities. I believe that it is somehow towards the end, that people are being vaccinated, that they are getting old, that there is somehow funding, that concessions are also being granted, that is, a thousand 285 new places in the homes for the elderly. If we look at it this way, 19 million will be allocated to day centres and temporary accommodations, then it will also be for the rehabilitation of about a million people. And if we can't make a comparison, but here I've already counted 20 million funds, and in the last ten years it's been invested as an investment in building a home total of 26 million. From this out then follows that there could be no result, some numbers also say. If I take any more of these measures in the field of labour. I don't think they were bad, they weren't all the best, but then they slowly turned into optimals. And the result is that we have 88,000 unemployed in February 2021, which is something that is visible. We had 77 000 unemployed at the Employment Institute in February 2020. Today we have about 13% more. And if it weren't for these measures, we would definitely go, I don't say, to 300,000, but we would definitely go once more than we have. And these are the indicators that we have to say that it went well in this regard. And the neighbouring countries have in some way acknowledged that, because they have not done so, they will have a greater problem of cooling the economy back to normal. If the opposition and the motioners successfully intertwined this minister today, it is unlikely that we have done something useful, since the new minister has only one and a half years to make a difference. He's adapting again and so on. And now if I look at the meaning, so many interpretations, or every month, or every two months after one, June last year, the Minister for the Economy was interviewed, he had 37 votes in favour, then he was Minister of the Interior Hojs, 38 "for", Simona Kustec a few days ago 38 "for", today Minister Cigler Kralj will get between 35 and 40 votes from the opposition to drop him and we will move on. And then next week, something gets back to the Minister of Culture; but the fifth attempt, and you never get over 40 votes. Come on, let's go home, not smile. That is to say, if we are now on the fifth trial, and if every two months we try to interpret one, it is certainly no longer serious interpretation. That I will not be too long, just maybe, I don't know if it's because of this covida-19 disease that we've become one of them so difficult, maybe there are other things that are actually responsible for the fact that there are so many interpretations now. On the other hand, I think that it all started with the performance of this government and that some are so bitter that, in fact, now these lies that occur in all of these interpretations have become potent every month, now they're ten years old. And so in a way I don't know, but I think the actual situation at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is good if we're realistic about the situation at hand. My voice against it is logical, but I appeal to everyone else, so of course let's stop the frivolous interpolations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. She will be discussed by Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Janez Ciegler King, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpolation, I can say, is some kind of search for a culprit for the non-action of those who could be more constructive and help curb the crisis of this epidemic in Slovenia. I have listened very carefully to the views of the parliamentary groups, including the Minister and, of course, also the proponents. And in my mind, the minister said that he took the readings very seriously today. I think that his answers are also very serious in response to the interpretation and that indeed those who do not have the time or who have not yet read it, please take into account his answers again for further discussion. The fact is that the homes for older citizens of the crisis were completely unprepared, the minister said — on his knees, on his staff, on his financial and on his spatial diet — even perhaps neglected. And, of course, New Slovenia is the one that kept alerting the DSOs to the homes for the elderly. My colleague Kordiš mentioned, indeed, on 17 October 2016 Nova Slovenija had already warned Minister Kopač Mrak that they were unsustainable in their homes for the elderly. At that time, we warned that the unsustainable situation is also in the treatment of patients – elderly people in nursing homes for older citizens, including in terms of nutrition and, of course, the care itself. We have drawn up a reference where experts have also identified and found that malnutrition among healthy adults at home is rare, but that 35-85% of the elderly in nursing homes are malnourished, and then they come into health care and, of course, mortality is five times higher in those. At this meeting, we wanted to give four conclusions to encourage the then government and then the minister to improve the situation with regard to the care of the elderly, and I must say that the then coalition rejected all four of our conclusions, which would allow for improvements in institutional protection in the homes for the elderly as early as 2016. However, this has been rejected and, of course, one such general conclusion has been adopted that this will be regulated by a resolution on the national health programme from 2015 to 2025. Not all the things of the past government were taken seriously or unwilling, of course the long-term care that should have been on our tables in 2016, at least as the then opposition Member received an answer when repeatedly intervened. However, if we look at the trend in the age structure of residents between 2011 and 2019, it shows that the number of older people over the age of 90 from 2011 increased from the current 14% in 2019 to 22%. That the number of people between 65 and 79 years of age decreased from 28% to 25% and that the number of people under 65 years of age from 13% in 2011 decreased to 10% in 2019. This shows us that our population is very old, that Slovenia is one of the oldest societies in Europe and that the Minister cannot solve all the issues that have accumulated over the decades in one year of his ministry. In his replies, which you have probably read, the Minister stated how the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for investing in the accommodation of the elderly have been reduced. Since 2008, it has been possible to read how the funds have been falling, and it will be obvious that in 2016 there were 348 000 euro in these funds. However, in 2017 there was nothing, nothing. In recent years, however, these funds range between 4 million and 2 million and so on. But in the time of Minister Kopač Dark, 350 000 euros in 2016 and nothing in 2017. And we all know that older people need to be taken care of, including Slovenia, by the resources it provides for the care of older people, because these are commitments because it is significantly behind the average set by other OECD countries. Covid-19 exposed the bad situation in the DSOs. He exposed what we have already heard today that we have fed homes for the elderly, that we must follow that we still have about 12% of the rooms in institutional protection providers, which are still three or more beds. By standards, Slovenia should have settled this matter a few years ago, but since it did not provide funds in the budget, it did not. And, of course, it is necessary to remind once again, indeed, of the long-term care that Slovenia still does not have nursing homes, which means that our homes are combined and there are many elderly people who are in palliative care or have many associated diseases. In a foreign case, there are also nursing homes, hospitals in addition to home, so all this comparison that I'm listening to today is not so possible, it's not so black and white, because the situation abroad is different, they have nursing hospitals. You're telling us why the minister didn't divide people into zones. Homes for the elderly, who are old, who are built 10, 15, 20 years ago or more, do not have these zones. And it couldn't be arranged overnight. Where they are, where homes were interested. And I can't forget what session we had, how the infected elderly were not separated when the bird hospital refused to accept them. A bird hospital publicly rejected covid-19 infected, I remember then Minister Gantar worked hard and was insulted and hurt. And I think he took it very seriously, too. These were not real moves, and this was not state-of-the-art and this was not some common search for solutions. Today on the floor is Minister Janez Cigler Kralj, on Monday was Minister Simona Kustec Lipicer, and before that were doctors, health workers such as Aleš Rozman, Bojana Beović, former Minister of Gantar. In short, throughout the epidemic, you have people on the ground who are trying to stop this epidemic as much as possible. And it's true, the crown is upon us, it's unpredictable, we don't know it. I have read many records, including Dr. Ihan, including Dr. Fafangla, who say — we do not yet know exactly how she will respond. And we see, new strains always come. And what needs to be clear to everyone is that measures such as personal distances remain, and we can call this isolation, which has already been spoken so many times today, wearing masks, disinfection and now vaccination, which I hope will partially limit its spread. Today, it has been said by the LMŠ Member that the Minister has not reached his post and is not in favour. I am asking this Member today whether he was talking about his pain when his Prime Minister, Vlade Sarec, resigned because he was not in favour of the presidency of the Government and was afraid of dealing with the epidemic. And in the end, all I can say is that he left people behind before the outbreak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms. Jerz Korča, if you please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to respond to the ad hoc speaker, Comrade Lenart of the SDS. It is also necessary to understand what an instrument of interpretation is. In interpreting, the evidence is written down, so when the opposition recognizes that the minister has made serious mistakes, and this is presented for discussion. If there is a conscience, the constitutional conscience of Members, then a hearing of arguments is heard, reads the submitted interpretation, reads the answer, not least, but listens to whether the Minister is capable or has arguments to reject the findings. And on that basis, it's up to you. When you talk about the number of votes, you know, you belong to a party that has masterfully or numerically invested interpretations, many of them were written very badly, very unargued, and the votes went like this: say Klemenčič 18 votes "for", Celarc 23 votes, Copač 20, constitutional indictment of the government 19, Brenčič 18, Celarc 24. Obviously, you also understood that the interpolation instrument is not that you already have 46 votes in advance, but that it is a democratic instrument to confront the minister with the obvious, and then he has to defend or insult them. First, you have to look yourself in the mirror before you push something away. Now, colleague Dimic, yes, I agree with you that our population is very old, that we have a fast-growing society. If we turn our logic around, we can also say that we can be proud of the fact that the long life span also points to the development of society, the health system, and much more; rather, it would be an excuse for the fiasco that took place in the homes for the elderly. Unless you do, I seriously doubt that because I know you and I believe you are socially sensitive, you are on the TV of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from May, when she said that you need to understand that there are old people in the homes and that their lives are running out and that moving to the hospital just because they were infected makes no sense. You know, it is our duty to ensure that every citizen and citizen is not asked today how many minutes, hours have been taken away from someone. The government doesn't say if they're old, because they don't have to be taken care of. On the contrary. The extent of understanding what it means to take care of the weakest is to make every effort to make sure that a decent age is allowed; without agreeing to the logic that age is stigmatized to this extent, it is personally repugnant to me that age is stigmatized in a way — because their lives have expired. And when you talk about investments, about investments, you can take one table, but if you're a supporter of concessions, you're a supporter of private institutions, then let's take this logic with investment. And here is a table from the analysis prepared by the Community of Social Institutions, which also talks about joint investments in public and private institutions, including with the contribution of the Ministry of Labour, in millions. And according to this logic, the numbers are still a little different. In 2017, 20.5 million were invested, 1.4 million from concessionaires' posts, in 2012 – 23 million from public institutions, 7.1 million from the Ministry, 25.4 million from concessionaires. And we can also add these numbers together, how many investment investments there were. However, I agree with you in your work that there is insufficient investment from the state budget by the Ministry in strengthening the public network. The minister had the opportunity to connect the home in Vrtojba, home in Osilnica, to the Vrtojba, decided to sell it to the private and then to grant the concession. However, he had the opportunity to include the already built home in the public works. Then you said you couldn't arrange the con in the homes. That's the obvious. Conscious that the government, which is part of the minister, is also responsible for the area of home to direct homes that are impossible. And here there's no excuse to give an impractical direction on March 27th, then everyone keeps warning you that this direction is impossible and you don't prepare solutions during the summer period. That's an eyewitness to the minister. And he knew what the situation was; and his task was to make isolation sure to find an alternative solution. And when you say that the crown is a global problem or is here between us, it is; but it is the fact that governments across different countries have faced it in a different way. And our government has also received calls from the opposition, which you see as unconstructive, but I do not know what kind of constructiveness you expect in democracy or in parliamentaryism other than to give you amendments, to appeal to the minister, to give him initiatives, to ask questions of parliament to be warned. And I take it personally as constructive that I asked the Minister here on 25 May: Minister, we know what was happening in the first wave, not to me, not to you, it is not proud – 87 dead in the homes, but what will we do to make this matter not repeat, what will we prepare for the second wave? That's constructive, I'm guessing you'll call on yourself to tell the minister to activate it. The fact that he did not activate during the summer and did not hear the calls is why we today demand political responsibility for the consequences. And these consequences are greater than in other countries. And if we're looking at statistics by number on 100 beds, we're right on top in February. And something went terribly wrong, because if it didn't work, if only testing followed, even the advice of the expert consultative group, if we were to provide the outer zones, we would have solved something, and I'm sure we would have solved something. But the Minister didn't hear those calls. And when you don't hear them, and you have them, when you can't refer to ignorance, then you're responsible, you have to take responsibility for your crime. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Replica, Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Maybe we didn't get along, colleague Jerc, but I did read about the Ministry of Labour funds for investing in the accommodations of the elderly. And that's exactly what you proved that concessionaires are part of a public network. I said that in 2017 there was virtually zero investment from the Ministry of Labour, and you said that there were 20.5 million investments. This is an important information that shows that our system also works by means of concessions, concessionaires, because otherwise it would be a real sadness. My purpose and my emphasis were to move forward as a society, because we need nursing hospitals, nursing homes. And we're only here in the beginning, and I really want the long-term care to come to life, which, of course, will allow it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm just answering about these numbers on interpolation. During the term of office of the former government, about 10 interpellations were lodged in the opposition, where the Slovenian Democratic Party was also then. In the last eight months and nine months five have been invested. One record that three have been filed within two weeks, you already have, if you make progress, but of course you will have exceeded all the investments that have been made in one term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ms. Jerz Korča, if you please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u78	The most beautiful or I would be glad that there would be no need for one interpretation so that this government would do well for every government to do good. But there's been a lot of wrong with this government. Interpellation against Minister Počvalšku, because today is clear as a white day that the acquisitions went wrong, the responsibility of the opposition to submit the interpretation and to set the mirror. But if we had self-reflection, there wouldn't be a lot of these interpretations. But you don't have self-reflection that there are limits to when a person should go on his own because of his integrity. And then, of course, here comes the opposition and tries to argue that things have gone too far. And the ministers in this country have resigned because of minor matters, and this is also because democracy is being strengthened and it sets standards in society, what is permissible and what is not permissible. But everything is acceptable with this government. Everything. But some things are personal to me, which are to some extent remediable, either it's just lost funds from the budget, or it's something that criminals are likely to be dealing with in the future. There are some things about human health and the abandonment of the wrong conduct of individuals that has led to the consequences that we are witnessing today. And the numbers that this government has produced are really alarming, and they're due to inaction, ignoring, bad communication. Of course, you want to show that for every thing, for every mistake that is evident on your part, everyone else – the nation, the opposition, Metelkova, the horn, I do not know who all. While you had leverage to do the right thing, Minister Brickler the King will arrange for compensation to take care of the homes, to provide them with all the things they need, so that with all his strength we will actually proceed so that we do not get to the interpretation if you want. It's not a political struggle or a fight against the minister. It is also a matter of maintaining some basic standards, that there are boundaries in society and that there is a need to draw a line somewhere and that it is the basis of policy if we want to be in front of people, that we are aware of what our responsibility is and that we are able to recognise it and take it over because it is a minimum hygiene standard. However, if a person is not capable of doing so, he has personally missed my profession. Because being a politician without knowing that you have to be responsible and stand for your actions or in this case for irregularities; and if what happens happens happens to take responsibility, you know, then it goes very badly for that country and for that policy. It is logical that the nation does not respect politics, functions, and many other things, if you do not have self - reflexion to your actions or omissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In recent discussions, you have come down with the content of the interpretation. I suggest that future debaters return to the content of the indictment, to the content of the interpretation and to the answer, and leave other non-essentials aside for another occasion. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. She'll be discussing Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! A good year ago, we sat together on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where you did so-called hearing for the performance of the minister. I have to admit, after that committee, I had a good feeling. You didn't disappoint me after the presentation, which you answered a few questions to me and the others differently than you would expect to be answered by some representative of the party you came from. And I said – here, because perhaps it is also possible to go beyond some divisions and perhaps we can think even more broadly than just those narrow party divisions and somehow predetermined views on individual issues. As an important point of social dialogue, you gave the feeling that you were an extremely socially sensitive person, that you highlighted the importance of NGOs, that you highlighted the importance of equal opportunities, which is also one of the areas covered by your ministry. If I look back after one year of your work, and I find that it is unfortunate that everything you have advocated has been carried out in practice much differently than you have spoken; and that you have succumbed to the majority or either, I can say, like all the ministers of this government, to the dictatorship of Chief Janez Janša. There are so many things that are actually harmful for the country, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that you have obtained interpretation in the National Assembly. And if I go in line now with the perceptions of the interpretation itself, before that, allow me, Madam Vice-President, to point out another topic that is constantly being highlighted and opened by the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Janša Party. It's a lie. It's a lie that you, too, Minister, haven't denied today. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what do you think about the allegations that the former Minister has spent 74 million euros on calls for European funds for some studies, analyses. You didn't answer that, you didn't answer that clearly and loudly, and the fact is, of course, that money wasn't spent on any, no analysis at all. And what's more, that this money hasn't been spent at all, and that when you talk about what you're going to invest in, you're talking about exactly that money. I also have here a tweet by Mr Tiln Bozič, former Secretary of State, a member of the government SMC who denied it. He said – I don't know about other things, but about 74 million information is not accurate. You received accurate information from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health last year. This is about the funds planned in the EU perspective, but they have not been used. This is a deinstitutionalisation tool, and when you brag about government portals and websites, how much money you will invest in social affairs, home for the elderly and so on, these are exactly the means. Dear Minister, you are so credible that you have to confirm this that we cannot agree to what the SDS Members say in particular, that this money has been used, that the Social Democrats in some of the analyses have not been able to agree to, but have been put into NGOs. These are such obvious lies that it is necessary to respond and deny them. I hope that you will respond to this, I expect a concrete answer and that we will resolve this matter. Now I'm going to the content of the interpolation. The first thing, as far as you're concerned, is that you didn't do the right thing in the homes for older citizens at the time of the epidemic. The fact is that in Slovenia we are already total winners of the death toll due to covid-19, and the second fact is that these deaths, we are talking about last year, 58% in the DSOs. So it's likely that everyone, the general public, knows something was wrong. The fact is that we have warned you in the democratic opposition all the time, when it was time to do something to separate the infected from the healthy, but it is not such a large population, take care of these vulnerable groups, so that if they are infected with covid-19 disease in the hospital. We've been warning this all along, calling extraordinary meetings. In the middle of it was a so-called summer break, a break. Did you do something? You didn't do anything. You were warned by the profession, the Community of Social Institutions warned you. The government’s answers, however, were — you know, because this is about old people who say goodbye from life to stay there because it’s better for them than it is for them to deal with them. It's a crime. It's really a crime. And whoever's committing the crime will stop. [[…]] I'm asking you to explain these things. And I'm going to go back to your past experience of how little has been done in the area of DSOs in the past. On this issue, thank God there are no more beds, because if there were twice as many beds, there would be twice as many deaths. Nothing would change the situation, absolutely nothing. You should be doing the right thing, but you're not. You should separate the sick from the healthy and it doesn't matter what the rooms are. We have warned that new units should be made, it is necessary to ensure that these patients can go to hospitals. Nothing's done. The solution came lucky today, and this solution is a vaccine, and I hope that the vaccine will also definitively solve this devastating power of this epidemic, but the government has broken down the entire line in these areas, including testing. Here, I congratulate you, when the testing began in the country, the numbers also began to fall in general and I am one of those who often use this testing, which seems to me in some sense to check yourself whether you are infected or not. How many times in the democratic opposition have we asked that, at least in these vulnerable groups, in pension homes, at least the staff should be tested. When did this happen? By the middle of December, it's too late. It's too late. But you didn't give an answer to why it was like that. You're just talking all the time, making sacrifices in the sense that you've done the best you can. I agree, because you might as well listen to someone, because I know you're not all aware that you can't do everything on your own. For example, there are instructions from the then secretary of state, today the staff of the Ministry of Education, that employees in pension homes should go to work in departments where covid patients, elderly, are infected. I mean, is that possible?Oh, my God! How did they get there? Infected? And then we're surprised the infection spread. That was an official statement from the Secretary of State. I would really ask for clear answers here, it's a very serious matter, it's not a joke, we don't count here frenikol, we count lives and I think the damage has really been done more than too. The second point where I am also critical is social dialogue. This is one of the questions I mentioned in the introduction that you gave me a very good feeling at the hearing. I thought you really believed in social dialogue, that you knew this was crucial. What has happened in practice? None of the PKPs were harmonised, and when we warned in the opposition, you said - but it is not our job to harmonise this. We just publish it there, call it together, if they don't agree, but they don't. How can we reach agreement? At the last PKP, PKP8, they received a union invitation to the committee, I think, 45 or 43 minutes before the meeting. And when I pointed out that, it was said – you know, because the chairman of the committee said that on Friday you had asked the social partners to be invited, and the services in the National Assembly were no longer working and we invited them on Monday morning, and the committee was at two o'clock in the afternoon. I don't know if this is a relationship with the social partners. But above all, you should invite them yourself, because they're the ones most concerned, not even the unions. These were matters that regulate the situation of workers in these difficult times. And not to quote here your Secretary of State, Mr Uršić, who said - We have a mandate to listen, write and mediate; but we do not have a mandate to say that this is harmonised. Third thing. In what way would we actually limit the epidemic in Slovenia? Not with curfews, not with students being persecuted, not with the longest closure of schools in Europe, not with the threats of Twitter, not with the threats of a government speaker. We would limit it to allow workers not to go to work if it is not necessary, even if they are infected. You didn't do it. We have also warned this in the democratic opposition all the time – ensure that those who cannot go to work have the same conditions as those who walk. Provide a hundred percent refund and try to establish conditions at least where you can, in the state administration, that most workers work from home. Did you do that? No, you didn't. You did the opposite. You gave a large number of people who were not in critical infrastructure, some additions, while at the same time you put the sick or quarantine payments at 80% or later to 90%. This is a big difference for someone who gets paid slightly above the minimum wage, a big difference. And if they could arrange it in other European countries, I don't know why Janez Janša's government didn't know it or didn't want to do it, but that's another question. And that's the key, we've talked about this in the last extraordinary session. If you could limit the spread of infections in jobs, I tell you that it would be a significantly better situation by now. We wouldn't need any threats, no soldiers on the road, no curfew. I don't know any closures, no regional boundaries. But the situation is better, as I say, because I believe it will be better from day to day, because the population is also inoculated and the population is infested. But you've covered the entire line, on the whole line, we're European champions after how the epidemic can't and can't fight. And you blamed people, citizens and citizens for it. More arrogance and incompetence. Now around this invitation to NGOs, the Institute of Honesty. The first thing, I believed, Minister of Respect, is that you are a great advocate of non-governmental organizations in the light of your work in NGOs so far, and I don't care if it is more Catholically oriented or whatever. You're a man from the NGO sector, and I appreciate that and I respect that. But, Your Honor, after you were on the board a good month ago, two months ago, when we were addressing this problem of the Honesty Institute, you assured Janša's client that it was right to cancel the call for NGOs, because these are some parasites and I don't know what, the Metelque scene, as they like to talk and the representatives of that party and your party's representatives, but I am shocked. As far as this invitation to tender for the Institute of Honesty is concerned, I don't know if anyone thinks it's a problem. I don't know if anyone thinks it's a problem. You were a co-founder of the institution until the performance of the ministerial function. Until the performance of the function. And when you became a minister, logically, at least formally, you gave it up, even though you still act as a volunteer, you boasted yourself. Nice, nothing wrong with that. Then, at the invitation of the Ministry you are leading, you will receive the highest possible number of funds from your society on an invitation to tender for the mitigation of the consequences of the crisis and the most vulnerable. On the board there are mostly cabinet representatives, not public servants who are employed there and are committed to some other principles and are independent, but those who are employed in the cabinet on your trust. And it gets the maximum number of asset points. And what else happens? In the meantime, this cooks something, for a long time there are no results, the terms for the leader change. And in which direction does the conditions change? In order for the theologian to be the project manager, you have adapted the invitation to this particular company or institution. In this case, I think there is a serious suspicion of corruption. More than this, I would not want to go any further, but I think there is a serious suspicion; but also by some purely sound logic, the general human logic will everyone understand that the minister grants his society the highest number of funds. This is a society that is also closely linked to New Slovenia, and has always received more money at the time when the right hand was in power than other societies. The Peace Institute, which your President of the Government has always highlighted as an example of some lazy people, I do not know what, although they were key to the democratisation of the Republic of Slovenia and are a very important society, is very important; but this society has received even more funds under the Janša government in the past than under other governments. This generalisation and this hostility towards the non-governmental sector, to everyone who thinks otherwise, does not lead anywhere. And I'm not going to talk about the content of the Honesty Institute because we don't agree here, but it's not the biggest problem. It is not the biggest problem to defend some values that are not entirely in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but I will not go into this because I allow justice, someone thinks so, someone else. I do not understand, however, that in the 21st century we oppose abortion, criminalize homosexuality and even oppose vaccination. This is another interesting point right now, when we see that vaccination sort of solves us, but we are again faced with a question that pisses me off and probably many other citizens and citizens, that is, what is going on with vaccination, which is unacceptable. The fact that the Secretary of State responsible for preparing the vaccination strategy says that such differences between municipalities are due to different organisations is terrible. That's terrible. In Ljubljana, 80-year-olds have not yet been vaccinated, and in another town they have already vaccinated the general population, 20-year-olds. Not to mention that we found out that you did not order the highest possible number of vaccines. I don't know if it's a total incompetence, or whether it's that you want to draw the epidemic indefinitely, through the next elections and, of course, forward; it's theoretically taking over absolute power and taking away all democratic rights. Obviously, this is fitting for the government to close overnight so that it will probably reintroduce borders between the congregations, that we should not be allowed anywhere, that all those who oppose, for example, not being able to go to school and so on will be punished. As long as you're standing in the square waiting for a swab, it's no problem, or if I say metaphorically, as long as you're looking at the ground, it's no problem; but when you look this dictatorship in the eye, you're being punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I suggest to the debaters that they stick to the content of the interpretation and that they do not mix the resources that are responsible for any matter. So many of the Members who already have a few seats, two years and so on, I expect. Now I give you my word. The word is Matthew the Widow. And for her, he'll get the word Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are already dealing with another interpretation within one week, and we are again listening to the phrases used – it is a legal and legitimate tool or a weapon of the opposition to oversee the work of the current government or the work of individual ministers. Again we shall spend 16 hours and more to raise one another up, boasting, and sadly also to accuse; and God forbid that there should be judgment and judgment. Nothing new, everything seen, lived and lived. However, there will be no concrete effects due to this meeting. As I pointed out in the debate days ago, it would be much better to spend this time on integration, cooperation and, above all, finding solutions to the crisis in which we have already fallen into deep confusion. It is true that the financial crisis is not yet occurring in all its dimensions, but sooner or later we will have to face it, and it will not be easy for us. If I return to interpolation as a legitimate and legal institution of parliamentary control. Legally, all of this is true. But I ask myself, and I ask you, is all this really necessary during this time of the pandemic? That's what I asked on Monday at one of our secretary's interpretations. Or is it not possible that this institute is not being played according to the purpose for which it is defined?Oh, my God! Do we really not know at this time or are we not able to use a little healthy farming and other ways to solve the problems, problems, frustrations? If I understand this institution, it is intended for the parliamentary supervision of the government and the current ministers, but not for the prioritisation and at all costs of overthrowing the government, as the opposition has repeatedly said. Believe me, people are tired of these fruitless debates, which do not bring any solutions, only deepen the divisiveness between us, the politicians, and themselves. A very graphic response was made to this situation by the citizen, commenting that our discussions on interpolation are similar to reality shows or telenovelas, where despite dramatic reversals the results are well known in advance. It's a good joke if it happened somewhere else, not here, in Parliament. Our citizens expect of us — and rightly expect — the solutions that will lead us out of the crisis that will make life easier for them and lead Slovenia by the developed countries. That's what they want. That's what we want. And I'm not going to moralize, preach and change others anymore, because I realized a long time ago that I can only change myself. However, it would be good for each one to ask himself what goals and for whose good he is doing today in the National Assembly. In the meantime, between these two interpretations, I also used one working visit to the Ministry of Infrastructure, where I discussed with Minister Jernej Vrtovec and his professional team the realisation of important infrastructure facilities in Gorenjska, including the beginning of the construction of the rolling road on the Hotemaže-Britof route. You will not believe this section of the important road for the three congregations has been under construction for 45 years. And so far, no government has been able to do that. Not because there wouldn't be money, but because it wasn't a priority. Well, now, if only happiness, things after all these years will lead to realisation. This is of interest to the inhabitants of Slovenia. This and the like are concrete cases that weigh them, not accusations, fingertips, and infertile talk. However, with regard to the mere interpretation against Minister John Cigler King, I do not intend to repeat everything because it has been said and heard many times today. And we'll probably hear more than once today. However, I must make it clear that he has done the most in the area of long-term care. In the interests of objectivity, I must also be critical of the previous government, particularly of the rhetorical minister who comes from our species, unfortunately. In this area, especially in the construction of the DSOs, battles were done little or nothing. As I pointed out at the coalition summit in Brdo pri Kranj with the government of Marjan Šarc as the only Member of Parliament, that I do not see any items in the record budget for the construction of a pensioner's home, no items for the construction of a nursing hospital, and so on that I come from Kranj, where we have about 60,000 residents with one pensioner's home, which has about 250 beds; and given that in the record budget, despite my initiative, requests, warnings have not changed, today I do not understand today's readings pointing at the minister. And once again, we will truly understand. The record budget did not have funds for the homes of pensioners, there was no funds for their employees, for nursing hospitals. And then there was no interpolation. Today, we know that Minister Janez Cigler the King has provided additional accommodation for the elderly by the end of 2022, today he has provided coverage of the driver's license for the unemployed, today the Minister has given twice-positive consent to the opposition law, which is not parliamentary practice. This means that within one year of his operation, he could listen to people, people who brought things from the ground. But after one year of operation, he'll be intercepted by interpolation. Let him understand if anyone can. Today, we listen to the evidence that the minister did not provide in six months a staff working in the homes of the pensioners, failed to keep them for him and went either abroad or to other jobs. And I ask you, what have we been doing for 30 years? What did we do for 30 years that we didn't know how to keep the workers to stay home and work in our retirement homes before the epidemic? Today, we expect the minister to do so within six months. Within six months of the second wave, it should provide a competently educated staff, which has been missing for ten years in this sector. In six months or one year, he should build new homes and so on and so forth. He doesn't have a magic wand. And you think it's a good fairy with wings that do what they want? Let's be serious, because we are Members. Many of us are very well aware of the functioning of the state administration, in fact, everyone should know it within three years. I will therefore say again today that I must greatly commend his work and that I appreciate that, in this mandate, one of the few ministers, who is very positive, professional, good and proper, has stepped up his work. It is this year that he has specifically done the most for the pensioners and the elderly, whom we are so pleased to address in our debates. However, I do not intend to judge the apparent guilt resulting from the interpretation, because I have no jurisdiction whatsoever. Remember, just connecting and cooperation will lead us out of this crisis, lead us to better times. Today is not the time for pre-election action; or just. So stay healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. And after him he will discuss Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, colleagues and ministers. In my debate, I will cover areas such as today's session, work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Interpellation, now it's no secret, we'll be supporting the Left Party because we're in the middle of a catastrophic epidemic management. The worst, that is, where it is shown in the number of either death or infection, in the areas covered by Mr Cigler King's department, that is, the department of work and the area of home for the elderly, which we have already heard a few assessments of the work of the current minister today. The department works because it is a ministry of work, and homes for the elderly are a source of family, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. Catastrophe in all areas of epidemic management. In the last year, I admit, I am killing myself with the question of why, of all the areas most affected by the epidemic, it is precisely these two areas, i.e. the area of work, labour rights, the preservation of jobs in the economy and so on and on, and on the other hand, the care of the weakest in the homes for the elderly. The answer is in the palm of his hand — because Minister Cigler the King does not respect the profession, does not recognize the dialogue, does not respond to the calls of the people most affected by the epidemic. Let me explain. Work area and unions. Trade unions are representatives of workers, of the nature of work, of the nature of the working environment, of the problems involved in the epidemic, whether they concern, I don't know, and quarantine decisions are the most familiar with the dangers of social distress, which comes with the collapse of certain businesses or industries or whatever. By the way, unemployment has increased by a third in the last year. The unions are the ones who know this area the most. In your written response, Minister, you did not respond to this interpretation. Why didn't you listen to why you didn't call either the expert group or in the area of home for the older Community social institutions or union representatives? You have not responded to the findings regarding the failure to issue quarantine decisions, nor have you mentioned the reasons why we do not have an adequate remuneration for workers, for workers who must either be self-insulated or infected or otherwise affected by this epidemic. Now, in this debate, do you hope to invite these unions and ask them to give their assessment of the Minister's work at this point? The situation is similar in nursing homes. The Community of Social Institutions, which is a umbrella organisation that brings together employees in nursing homes, also sees work as catastrophic. In the first wave, they are not satisfied with the communication from the Ministry of Labour, at a time between both waves, when there was essentially no evaluation, and then the result of this summer sleep in the second wave. Are we going to invite them? One is the theory or the statistics, we've already heard a bunch of numbers today about what the infection is, what the mortality is in the homes for the elderly, and these numbers stand. But in my own case, Minister, I can rely on my own experience. I spent the summer volunteering in one of the nursing homes most affected by the epidemic. Volunteer among the people who worked there for 16 hours after the first wave was already behind us and we knew how this epidemic worked in nursing homes. People who worked 16 hours in suits were wearing suits — you know what? Bathrobes to survive this heat stroke, exhaustion. At 16 hours, they couldn't even afford time to have lunch, to take a break, to hang out. Not because they wouldn't want to, but because they didn't have any extra equipment in the lager that they could use in their second round. This was the result of summer sleep at the Ministry of Labour, which is responsible for the situation in nursing homes. Dear Minister, I have decided to support this interpretation in July as a volunteer in a nursing home. Second thing, another problem in nursing homes is your vision of strategic development in this area. Not the management of this acute state, but the vision of how this emerging area, which is already under normal conditions, 50 % of the staff is being fed, is lacking in 12,000 beds and so on, is evolving. Your vision goes in one direction that doesn't work, and that's privatisation. I am delighted to accompany the interpellational session that is taking place here today, but there is also one parallel one that is taking place on Twitter, your ministry's account, your pianists are trying to pull all our statements out of the debate and set up a mirror, display them as fake news and then what you call a fact, or your pianists. One such, for example, found herself there and says that Primož Siter said in his opening address: “The government and the ministry prefer private capital to build houses for the elderly.” And then you say in your defense that over the next two years, you spend five times as much budget money as you have spent on any government, totalling 30 million euros. Okay. Why, I wonder. To what and to whom is the $30 million earmarked, respected minister? Private sector, private sector, private sector people who will jump into the public sector, collect state resources, turn into their own business, cut down users and users of services in their homes for the elderly and earn money. This is a vision for the development of long-term care in the current Ministry of Labour. It is harmful, Minister, that we leave the area of long-term care to initiatives of private capital and dynamics and rules of the free market. You, the well-respected John Cigler King, the Minister for Equal Opportunities and should know that the free market and equal opportunities in one sentence are perfect no-go, cannot basically work. This is my basic criticism of your management, the management of this department. I know we are in difficult times, but difficult times require more cooperation, require more solidarity and more understanding that things need to be done for the common good. Not for business, but for public interest. In your presentation, there was a bunch of things, a bunch of things that I can set up a mirror for. I have no time without borders, but I would only respond to one more thing from the part of your fame that says that you are spending the most in the history of long-term care, especially in the work of European funds in this area, you have already dedicated yourself to presenting this. The government will spend only EUR 202 million or only 4% of all resources on the healthcare system and EUR 99 million, or 2% of all social protection and long-term care in the next six years, from a total of 5 billion European funds – just to clear this up. At annual level, this is 37 million for health care and 16.5 million for social protection, including long-term care. 16.5 million. In conclusion, I only remind you of the number your government is giving to weapons, which is €780 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Sonibo Prince has the word to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I think I've been listening to debates for about nine, ten hours, especially in the minds of coalition partners, on the one hand, the more zealous supporters of the minister and the debate, and I think that due to one correctness there are also some answers. Today, as the Vice-President has rightly warned before, it is not the intervention against the SD and Anja Kopač Mrak, but the intervention against the minister of this government, who has been in power since March last year. I understand nervousness, especially SDS, the biggest customers, because in all that they've done in one year from some pretty normal country — but you have faith, we have to congratulate you on that. Such a breakdown of the system, of the subsystems, of everything you do, one would say that you can't do it within 10 months, but you did it. Of course, you've spent a lot of money on this, which we don't have, always forget to say. I'm going to mention a few more times that you have a record in this country's debt, record time, of course forget to mention it. I would also agree with some of the conclusions of the SDS, in particular their position, I do not know, with the consideration of Irgle's colleague on lustration, that there was no lustration. I'd just agree here, colleague, with you. If this had been done, we would have gotten rid of John Janš 30 years ago. If we did that then, my dear fellow, we would not be the only country in the European Union that has a former communist government as its President. That's the facts, that's the facts. But from that point of view, I support it. If the price is to do so then — for 30 years now, we have been burdened by the politics of John Janša. 30 years! To this day we come to build a museum for himself, where he will boast because citizens and citizens do not seem to appreciate it enough. What did you get a year ago, this government? A quarter of a billion legacys of the former government, one of a number of surpluses, and in one year you managed to bring this country to 4.2 billion debt. Great. There are also some facts regarding SDS's findings. Let's take a look, because that's how you went back in 10 or not know how many years. Since you claim to have done everything this year, more than everyone else in the last few years, let's look at some facts for these last years. Investments. May I remind you, dear colleagues, of the period between 2010 and 2012, what was this period? This was the period of fiscal consolidation followed by the first government of Janez Janša, calling the troika at that time under the second government of Janez Janša and continuing to tighten the belt. What have ministers been doing, what is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also doing? In 2012, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs addressed the consequences of Zujf, a respected colleague and fellow SDS. Zuifa, where all the subsystems were underpaid, stopped making progress, intervened in all fundamental rights. This government — of course, every year it was just to restore all the rights you took from them with this Zuyfa. There was no money for investments in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. Minister, today you are operating under some conditions when there is no more golden rule that was also in force. You've been in politics so long, you've been monitoring this. I'm sure Anja Kopač Dark would have run a different policy if she had 4.2 billion at her disposal, or the government could afford 4.2 billion deficits, but they didn't. Let me remind you of this period in terms of investment funds, European funds, as was the situation in this regard. During that period, there was not enough money to invest in building houses; European money was not allowed to build social infrastructure, walls, concrete, as we call it, but only for this social infrastructure, with an emphasis on deinstitutionalisation. This is also followed today by the European Commission in these NOOs, where the content must be sustainable and reformed. All that, how bad were we in the area of home and all that — were we? Let's take a look at some data. Take a look at Eurostat data, which clearly shows that we are already the eighth in the European Union by capacity in the DSO per 100,000 inhabitants. Is that so bad? It can probably be even better. But we're weak in the care of the elderly at home. No one wants to, a large majority never want to go to a home that is a priority for us today, but the main thing that will solve all the problems of the elderly if we build additional homes — home care, help at home, these are the topics that the elderly want. The vast majority are the last to resist all four of them to go to their homes. I'm sorry. But I'm pretty sure he's holding what I said. It is also necessary to allocate funds to improve standards in existing homes. I have been critical myself, and here I also agree with the Minister's statement, and I think I have heard this a few times today, we have not done enough for a generation of elderly people in this country as a society, that is for sure. From the fact that we have poor pensions, that we have successfully saved the cashier's PPIZ, we have saved in the way that we made pensions from the top 10 periods for a 24-year period, to the fact that, from 80 percent or half as much as they promised us that we would have a pension when I started working, we made it 57 and a half. Things are moving around here, it's commendable, we have to do it, I agree with that. Some good measures have also been taken by this government, even under the leadership of the Minister, and have been mentioned today, I support them. Some of the injustices that have been open for years have settled this year, even so much must be right and acknowledged. But also at the standard level, as far as the DSO is concerned, we haven't done anything. I asked former Minister Klampfer's first year when I arrived, what he intended to do, given that there was a rule on standards and norms that all DSOs should be based on – I think it was 2020 or 2021, I don't know exactly, deadline – to regulate as far as the standard is concerned, that is to say that you have a majority of one- or two-bedrooms. What, unfortunately, was the answer to the Minister I asked in the fact that this year was a record budget? I'm afraid there's no money for this investment. What's she gonna do? She said, "Yeah, we're just going to extend this date." And so we rescheduled things again, we didn't save them. These are all facts. The standard in already existing homes of respected colleagues also says it is higher than in many other countries, but we had a much higher share of the dead here than the rest. This is now the area where I agree that this is probably the result of inappropriate and time-consuming measures taken by this government. And last of all, I've said in the debate several times that I don't envy this government the problem we're having because of this virus. It's also hard to say and say, Minister, it's your fault, you've been taking measures that have also led to so many deaths. I never would have hoped to say that, but that's how much I have to be corrected. I also believe you're trying to find solutions, but I know you won't find them. Last but not least, it has neither Slovenia nor the whole world. We learn about the virus, including doctors. I got over the virus myself, I asked them a million questions in the hospital, and they can't answer me because it's only been a year since we've been dealing with this, and they're learning. If there are mistakes, I understand them, at least as far as I'm concerned. If I can just find this one more piece of your report, Minister. Now, on what flies more towards you, around yours – I will read just to let you know what it is – paragraphs you wrote in your reply. In particular: “The problems of the care of the elderly are allocated five times more European and other resources than at any government since 2008. For the daily centres and temporary accommodation of the elderly, which will be built all over Slovenia on the basis of a call for proposals, €21.5 million is allocated. The energy rehabilitation of the previously extended two homes for the elderly of 845 and several thousand more euros will be completed." Again, as I said in the first part that I did but that it was right to say false claims, it is also right here that we are a proper, well-respected minister. In doing so, you should say that this is where the money comes from the European financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. These are the ESF long-term care and deinstitutionalisation funds, which were also agreed at the time of Kopačev. In the first part of the financial perspective, these funds were spent on active employment policy and social activation, the remaining funds, which are for the care of the elderly, and therefore the dynamics of the distribution of this money are greater at this time. But there's no extra money. Now this additional money is being sought through the NNOs, where the European Commission – and if I am not right – has made it clear that long-term care must be linked to deinstitutionalisation and the content must be sustained and reformed. It is said that we will have trouble getting funds for the walls or for new constructions. The last three energy rehabilitations were also confirmed in the mandate of Anja Kopač Dark. This part is only so much because I think it's right. If we operate on data, we should also properly interpret them. That was, I'd say, a look back. But what I actually wanted - we had a little discussion that we would not all repeat ourselves as parrots, we had a little division of areas that each of us covers – I would now go through a few readings that I have already presented to you on my own, and this is about a matter that I really do not understand in the context of, and this is an inadequate dialogue with the social partners and non-response on the proposals for provisions that affect the rights of employees from working relationships. In your reply, the Minister-designate stated, but also stressed that you always advocate your commitment to social dialogue, which is not the last thing you prove – I think you have also shown by the graphs – with the number of meetings of the Economic and Social Council and the number of proposals you have discussed, you also consider that the vast majority of anti-crisis laws were adopted in social dialogue and that at the beginning of your term you appointed members of the Economic and Social Council as soon as possible. I think it's also right here to say bob beans. Let me remind you that you took over the Government in March, that you appointed these eight representatives to the Economic and Social Council, which, of course, always belongs to this ministry, only on 30 April 2020, and the Economic and Social Council was not convened until 15 May for the first time. I know exactly that this was Friday, because we, the Social Democrats, have made a request for an extraordinary meeting, which was convened on Friday afternoon, due to the lack of social dialogue. You called on Friday morning, so I received at the afternoon session: “We met.” Yeah. This social dialogue took place relatively normal in PKP3 and PKP4. I normally think because none of the parties achieves everything they want, but, last but not least, the point is that we are talking and that we are trying to reach a consensus in this body. However, there was a complication with PKP5. Let me remind you that, at the time, the social partners are also, because of the obvious fact that this social dialogue is taking place, it is more apparent that you do not actually have competence for any kind of agreement – I think we have heard this a number of times already today, and I, too, have warned about this in the preliminary position of the SD. Mainly, it is complicated, partners are leaving, there is no dialogue, their assessment is that there has been no social dialogue in this country at such a low level since we have it through the Economic and Social Council. I also told you that once I told you that the role of the Economic and Social Council in this country is not to resolve conflicts on the street, that all stakeholders are meeting, talking, listening and trying to reach an agreement. This arrangement in this case, this is what I don't understand why you don't accept. It's probably a matter of concern, Minister, a part of the truth that you don't have the authority, as I said, because in this government it's up to John Janš to bless everyone, but I don't know why you don't. Even today, boasting about how cool all the measures are — it doesn't look like they are. According to public opinion polls, this decision of yours, the confirmation of the citizen and the citizens disagree. Support to the government of SDS is dropping significantly, at a very low level. The only one who's still kind of prospering, and that's where she fell, is SD, and everything around, and her coalition partners are cutting you up like salami. Dear Minister, look at the public opinion results. I wouldn't know if someone faked them, but with what they're doing, half the support your client lost. Not to mention SMCs, they were already at a minus, counting. Desus is a great war. I don't even know what they are today. In short, we should think about it. Today is one of the debates. I think she was a colleague from SMC. She said, "What are you saying there was no money before, every minister has to fight it?" I would ask her – I think she was a widower or a Žnidarič – how their minister Klampfer voted in the government of Marjan Šarc. It is not because this government has acted responsibly because public debt has been reduced to 66 or 64% of GDP at the expense of investments, that this public debt has been reduced. Today, the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia is 80 plus, what percentage, it is said that we have managed to successfully repay this country. Otherwise, I must say that I have no problem with you as much as I have communicated with you, and there is generally no rule of this government, far from it, you are cultural, you answer, even the employees of your ministry, I must say that they are responsive, I have no bad experience here. And I'm missing what I said. In the final stage, you, the distinguished minister, even around the main observation concerning the homes of the elderly, once said that you did not agree with the fact that the sick were not allowed out of the DSO, and the Minister of Health objected. Only this generalisation – Minister, after the end of the term nobody will know. You're the minister in charge of this department and the system, and I completely understand you when you said you weren't sleeping. I wrote a few things down because I know they're purely life-threatening, I know you're not easy, but for God's sake, you're giving your support to this government that's hurting this country. A bad government that has done this country irreparable damage in a year. I hope that this term will be over as soon as possible, but to you, Mr. Secretary, who, according to my assessment, is one of those whom I might say you are ministers, at least as far as the culture is concerned, I'll put my hat down on your team as well. But imagine what your position will be after the end of this government and at the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the word to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow us to return to the interpolation and leave the blisters as well as the pathetics in this anti-government fight in peace and deal with what has been written in the text of the interpolation and to which the minister and who has responded more than once today. But whoever doesn't want to hear it will never hear it. The fact that the left-hand side wants to cover the right-hand side is that what the left-hand side of the ministry, represented today by Minister Janez Cigler King, did not build or build within 10 years, the right-hand side must do within 10 months. But it just doesn't work that way. Above all, it is comical that these missing 10 years are spoken of mostly by those who are guilty that many things have not been done in these 10 years. Only an example of long-term care and demographic fund, where I remember that in 2012 we already had a draft law written and should come to the National Assembly at the end of 2012, but the political situation has changed. Today we have an interpolation that has similar intent to that of the interpolation a few days ago, and as it is likely to have connotation even a few days later – a feeling that the covid epidemic is only present in Slovenia and that Janez Janša and this government have invented an epidemic and that this government is the worst in the face of this epidemic. But the fact is that neither this government nor Janez Janša have invented an epidemic, and the results show – except for the moment when it comes to mortality, where, unfortunately, when we talk about human lives, Slovenia is correcting on the international death scale, and let us wait until the end when we say that it can be after the battle of the general, for example, how many people will die, but I know that I am very sorry, because every human life counts how many are dead – that, as far as the other measures are concerned, we are also in the field represented by the Minister, among the top three in Europe by success. In particular, I trust the representatives of the left political field to have problems. The Minister gave the answers, and they keep asking the same questions. My colleague Eva Irgle showed you a mirror in a good half an hour about unmade business in this area, as well as general political facts. But of course, as I say, whoever doesn't want to hear and doesn't want to see it won't hear it. However, the public received good information from the Minister and from colleague Eva Irgl, what the facts are. What bothered me – and this is happening today and it was also a few days ago with the Minister of Education – is that individual debaters go to a personal level. I have been in the National Assembly for some time now, and I remember when an elderly SD Member warned us when we said: “You, Madam Member.” She said, “Don’t go to the personal level, just talk about me as a representative of a political party or a profession.” Today we listen to the question whether the Minister is a healthy person, or even whether the Minister has a conscience, and similar malicious personal discredits, I do not think he belongs to the National Assembly. Nor do such discredits in the National Assembly belong to a minister for whom we know ourselves personally – with Mr. John already, uh, long are these FDV times, about 20 years old – I can say that if anyone with the FDV that I value, not only because of his conscientious work, but also because of his conscience and responsible work, this is Minister Janez Cigler King. Since such views were already represented as a student, then also through NGOs, and even when we as an expert co-worker each in our group helped Members to defend their positions, I knew that he was one of those responsible for his task and always with conscience. Today, those who forget how their conscience has been repeatedly lost speak of the conscience. However, I will not go into any correlation between my fathers and I have some Members when they have long lost something other than their conscience, or I will not go into the way that individual mayors have sat in double positions and shared resources. Before I go to the key structures of this opposition, which, I say, is increasingly pathetic, I would only ask the Minister to devote a much greater role to the individual issues that we have not given them today. In Slovenia, two actors play an important role, the Centre for Social Work and the Employment Institute, where unfortunately, in the past, too politically involved, has been staffed, even because of individual political persons, they have moved the centres of these and different organisations. That is why I hope here, Madam Minister, that you will make order at the Centre for Social Work and at the Employment Institute that these will be the entities that will be part of solving the problems of Slovenian citizens and not part of the problem. But what's interesting is, when we're listening today, I've got an interesting thesis going on today. Last time we had the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on the ground, we now have the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, next time the Ministry of Culture will be on the ground. Look at him, you piece of shit! Who were the most visible ministers in these three ministries? Representatives from SD quota. And then today they wonder how a certain part of the criticism flies to their former ministers. Just look at the two most prominent representatives from the SD quota, Mr Svetlik and Mrs Anja Kopač Dark. The more we warned, the more we called extraordinary meetings, the more we put in laws, the more they opposed. Recent examples of how the left-wing government works or how the right-wing government works. Speaking of older people mostly, peasants are retired. The left government didn't listen to our proposal for a marriage. When we put him in this term, Minister Janez Cigler the King nodded with his team and said, yes, peasants' pensions need to be saved more fully. When – I think – the carrier – colleague Eva Irgl was already engaged in the previous mandate in the field of invalidity pensions, with quite a disgraceful amount of these lowest pensions, representatives close to the SD policy said that this was not such an important topic. Under this Ministry, we have resolved these matters. If we go to one thing that I said before, some people forget about the epidemic. Today, we see that the problem is that this government has set a priority and given people funds from the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities when this government has tried to protect jobs and all other segments. And we hear today that it's a problem to throw money away. Where are we supposed to throw the money? To the banks? That's where you dumped him. There was no effect. These measures have effects. Now I touch home for the elderly, who are some sort of red thread of this whole interpretation. First of all, from my local field of thanks, Minister, that you came to the field and looked at the situation, because in the Municipality of Sevnica we have as many as three homes for the elderly and there were all representatives and we, I think, sat together for four hours looking for solutions to human and spatial deficits, but also general matters were warned by representatives of these houses. I think those warnings have already fallen on fertile soil, and they probably will. And above all, I'm gonna say, it hurts a little when you say, oh, you gave me some money, and that's it. As far as financial resources have now gone, both in the provision of capacity and in the provision and payment of additional staff, and in their education and so on, it has never been possible. Just one case. So I don't use the wrong numbers, I wrote it down. Adoption of intervention legislation, €26 million for additional employment in social security institutions. It's the means to get home on empty beds. Reimbursable funds for compulsory protective equipment. The establishment of an external red zone, of which 649 additional staff were employed in social security institutions in January 2021. Six hundred and fifty extra shots! Unfortunately, the epidemic had to sober us up and wake us to recall the human resources feeding at home for the elderly. During the period from August 2020 to the end of 2021, 113 participants participated on average monthly in public works programmes. Fifteen thousand hours of work have been done, all at the expense of the state. This terrible country that we are listening to today, how this government is throwing money both in solving the problem of home for the elderly and in dealing with the epidemic. When I defend the thesis that the left is speaking, the right is working, the first chronic evidence [[shows the object]] , indicating the present and, above all, other chronic evidence [[shows the object]] . You talked about long-term care, you talked about the demographic fund – soon at least one of these laws will be in the National Assembly, and for each of these stars, people will be grateful. But, yes, you won't do well to do certain things in this government, that there will be 40 new units, that there will be 218 new places for day care, that there will be a thousand 285 new beds. Left is speaking, right is working. But I'm going to end up a little provocative. I'm very afraid of what the next interpolation will be. Why? Because apparently all the resources are allowed to defend this metal revolution — for the last time, the children are dead today, and for the next Wednesday, the blood is on state facilities. How low are you going to go with your sting because you failed with a constructive mistrust? Wake up, get real, and start doing what the right side does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much to all the discussers in the meantime since my last intervention. Since this is clearly the most exposed topic in the debate, I would like to present a few points of vision of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities I am leading, and our teams for the comprehensive care of the elderly. Although I have presented this vision a little while ago, the responses are very positive. Perhaps this part of my debate will also clarify the dilemma raised by one of the Members, who said that I do not mention resources for capacities in deinstitutionalisation. I have no problem with this and, of course, the deinstitutionalisation project is from a previous financial perspective. But what is essential that this team has done in the most difficult circumstances, in the most challenging circumstances? When we fought the virus in the nursing homes, when we took measures for the labour market, to help the most vulnerable, we were with the team responsible for drawing European funds – of course the SVRK, the government service, was very pushy and very encouraging and also gave us all the support, I must say, but also we, with our team to draw European funds – forgive the expression, step on the gas, and in 2020 we accelerated the pumping to go over over 100 million. My colleagues, when I congratulated them, were extremely proud, and so was I, because I am proud to lead such a team. They told me it was the biggest number for a period if not ever for the Ministry of Labour. And that's essential. Of course, it is important that one thing has been set up because I heard the obvious: “All of this we have set for you, all of this we have foreseen”, but the key is that when this is foreseen, you do not stop there. Some things can, we've heard from Members, they've been scheduled for 10 years, they've been foreseen for 15 years, they're a key moment, they're a trigger when these things are turned into actual, tangible projects, when those projected money is set up, the programme is pumped in the tables. In fact, I have not yet understood why there is such fear in some home or social welfare institutions or in local communities: “Minister, where have I assured you that you will really be able to do this?” I didn't understand it, I admit, but now I know why. Because everything was planned. But it's unfair for all of this to be a decade, but nothing happens. As a minister with my team, I have set myself a key priority, one of the three key, to a comprehensive regulation of the care of the elderly. We know what a demographic is like. These are not guesses, these are serious statistical forecasts, population movements, even at European level. The area has been neglected, I have seen this practically in all the debates and I take it as one of the positive results of today's debate, that at least we agree on this, because this is the basis for us to work together. The team and I responded to this situation immediately. We've focused on four areas. Deinstitutionalization. We have clear deinstitutionalisation objectives. Clear targets. In particular, an invitation to tender for the co-financing of investments in infrastructure for the implementation of daily forms and temporary accommodation for the elderly has been concluded. There will be a total of 29 new units for around 19 million euros. There is an invitation to tender for the co-financing of investments in infrastructure for the establishment of housing groups for persons under 25 years of age. A co-financed capacity of 25 will be foreseen for the establishment of housing groups and the purchase of an estimated 25 vehicles. By the end of 2023, at this point, I foresee an additional 150 places of accommodation for older people and persons with developmental disabilities, as this is also part of the care or part of the area of social security institutions, including those with developmental disabilities, and we must not forget that. By the end of 2022, the property fund of pension and disability insurance will have acquired over 180 new housing units for older adjusted apartments and by 2025 total 400 housing units. This is all within the framework of deinstitutionalisation. Indeed, one Member highlighted this, which is a key guide for the European Commission, the European Union, if you will, and of course also a modern approach to the care of the elderly. Most people want to stay as long as they can. As long as you're home. Our task is to enable and support them in various ways. The measures provided for in the new financial perspective, 2021-2027, will be aimed at continuing this deinstitutionalisation process, as part of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, we will carry out a reform of long-term care and modernisation of the institutional protection system. With this part of the funds, we will ensure that an additional 850 modern capacity is built in homes for older citizens. The implementation of these projects is expected to be completed in 2026. The second point in the vision of comprehensive care for the elderly is institutional protection. An invitation to tender for the award of concessions was concluded, providing by the end of 2022 thousands of new 280 cities in the public network. After the conclusion of this invitation to tender, we will soon go to another invitation to tender for an additional thousand 100 cities. In the next two, a record amount of EUR 30 million is provided in the budget for investment and construction of the public, state-owned DSO network, more than in the previous 12 years combined. As part of the REACT-EU initiative, we will ensure that existing capacities, or raise the standard of existing capacities and adapt the premises of institutional protection operators, and, even more, this has already been highlighted in the debate, that existing information systems are digitised and upgraded. Also in the care of the elderly, it is an extremely important process, and the current team of the Ministry of Labour is aware of this. Some projects are already being piloted, monitored, and we will definitely go this way. It is not too much to mention that in the near future, as Minister, I will also sign a document on strategic investments that will be the basis for agreements with municipalities, leading the DSOs for further investment in the field. Investments from REACT-EU will be completed by the end of June 2023. We have also – and I see here a consensus between all of us – to upgrade outdated human resources standards and standards. These are outdated and do not meet the needs of users and the actual situation in the care of the elderly. User structure has changed significantly, more residents need a higher supply category, and lack of staff has also been shown in the most acute form during the covida-19 epidemic. The first step towards a comprehensive regulation of this area has already been taken within the framework of intervention laws, when we have provided a total of €29 million for additional staff for a two-year transitional period, for human resources assistance in social security institutions, of which €26 million is for nursing homes alone. As a result, between August and now, an average of 410 people were additionally employed in nursing homes. Homes for seniors, leadership, teams give extremely good responses to this measure. We have also strengthened staff homes through public works, many hours, almost 12,000 were made from temporary and occasional work and almost 200,000 working hours by students and students. In the working group, we are also working on changes to the Staff Normatives for Older People's Homes, Social Welfare Institutions, Protection Work Centres, Training, Work and Protection Institutions and Social Work Centres. We coordinate these proposals in working groups with contractors and trade unions. I therefore assess that, with a vision, we demonstrate and route the path for the comprehensive care of the elderly in the near, medium and long-term future, we work with all relevant stakeholders, which is not always easy. It's not always easy, it's more difficult than it's ever been for us to take any action on our own, but we want to reconcile things and put them right. In the case of staff and norms, there is another matter that we need to pay attention to, and that is probably also the reason, we must admit the truth, perhaps the reason that these standards and standards have not been reformed and enforced so far is the extremely sensitive question of where the need for and evaluation of staff in care and in the healthcare work of the home for the elderly will be shed, where the financial burden of this will be shed. The fourth point of this vision is the adoption of a law on long-term care, which will also serve as a basis for drawing funds from the Recovery and Resistance Fund. This is the key reform to which we have committed ourselves in this mandate. It's about social dialogue. Someone pointed out that he was supposed to be the union minister. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the Minister of Social Dialogue, we have a tripartite social dialogue and a partnership between all three is needed in order for the dialogue to run. Many times, thank God, we succeed, and many times we do not agree on anything, but certainly I, with my team, am the one who is inclined to coordinate solutions in the Economic and Social Council, because this gives greater strength to proposals. Of course, on the other hand, there is not one of the social partners — what would you call it? – to demand that these solutions are then established through the parliamentary process. I can't guarantee that either, because here, in Parliament, you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, decide. With regard to non-governmental organisations, in my written reply to the interpolation, I have attached extensive tables indicating that NGOs receive funds. Since one of the Members tried to put a counteraction in my mouth, the calls are running, but of course I have also presented at some point a vision within the party that proposed me to this place to enable citizens and citizens to have a greater impact on the decision on which non-governmental organisations are going.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Jerz Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Minister, for some re-promotional action or advertising of what of course we're not reading to you. You are an advocate, as you yourself have said, of some honesty, of some understanding, of mutual respect, but now, Minister, in the meantime, I have opened Twitter and on the official side of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities have seen how very systematically you are working, if you fake news and facts, you are looking at some of the facts. But just when a person goes through those presentations of yours, it's basically an eccentric display of what fake news means. Minister, you took my statement, and I quote: "Summer sleep is the main problem." And they wrote that it doesn't hold. And I'm quoting what you wrote down, and I'm guessing that you approved it or that Mr. Urbani is doing it, and I don't know who's doing it, and you wrote: "In the summer it only slept at night, and this little thing." Minister, are these things amusing you? Does it bother you that you don't have any arguments?Oh, my God! [[advertising from the hall]] Is this for real? The truth? I will read on: “The summer days were marked by intensive preparation for the second wave of the epidemic. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, together with the Community of Social Institutions and the Ministry of Health, prepared protocols and instructions for the case of the second wave, which were transmitted to all the above-mentioned operators in September." Minister, this is fake news, and my statement is still quite true, and today you have confirmed this many times by explaining what you have shared and what you will do. And summer sleep is the main problem. If he holds on to this government and holds on to this statement, he's holding on to it. And the Minister, this is confirmed by statistics. First wave: 87 deaths in nursing homes. The second wave, from September 1st, was the summer: a thousand 963 or more. These are data from the National Institute for Public Health. Like many times today, I will face you once again with arguments about summer sleep, which you deny yourself, as if it were fake news, but this is the most true statement we can make by the opposition. On 27 March, you sent a directive on the organisation of three zones, and you as a minister say that you are aware that all homes or many of them, due to the specificities of construction and other specifications, cannot provide suitable work organisation in order to prevent the virus as much as possible. On 27 March, you are aware that you are sending impossible guidelines to your homes. Pika. The fact. Then it's summertime. Now I'm gonna go straight across and you tell me if all these letters you've been receiving to the Ministry are fake news. On 16 July 2020, you are invited to remain until 1 at the latest. 8. 2020 provide external units. I quote: “Loneliness outside the institution or centre cannot be the subject of any delay or even improvisation when there is an infection or suspicion. There is a need for a system regime that will provide for such action in advance in all affected institutions and centres and thus enable them to respond quickly.” And what did you do? Nothing! Nothing. I've been asking you all day why you didn't do anything. On 21 July, the Government's consultative expert group decided that DSOs that cannot organise red zones should be assisted in order to enable them to be isolated, and this was imposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. So, in the spring you knew, you were invited in the summer, the expert group takes the decision, and you're nothing. It's summer sleep. 24. 10. it is October 24th and 2020 provide only a basis for reimbursement of home expenses to ensure external units. Only this, and even today we hear that homes are getting late reimbursements of these costs and they need to prove and check and I don't know what you're doing. This despondency at home has also been demonstrated by the fact that the Community of Social Institutions has threatened to step out of the working group by arguing that they hope that the withdrawal will be a must to wake them up to reconsider external units. Minister, what is this other than that you haven't done your summer work? I don't know, you could have thought back then about what kind of car would be best suited or big enough to buy it at the Ministry for your multi-member family. I don't know, I wonder rhetorically what you were doing back then. And another case, Minister, testing. I'm only focusing on two points on purpose because I can't get an answer to these two. 27. 3. you already get the call of concessionaires to test one of the key elements. On 27 September 2020, you will receive a decision from the expert consultative group, 28. 9. And you say non-chalantly: “There will be no new measures.” Then the advisory group repeats this call to you in October and the test begins on December 7th. And yes, Madam Minister, only from the expert group's conclusions, that is to say from September 27th to December 7th, 7 thousand 911 caregivers have been infected. I didn't get an answer as to why your decisions or your indecisiveness were what they were. When I tell you to sleep in the summer, keep it tight and I'll prove it to you more than once and I'll show it to you. Of course, I get an explanation for how many funds were earmarked and what you expect to do in the future. These letters – I can give them to you, but you are the addressee – date throughout the summer. All summer letters, calls, and if you don't respond, it's nothing but government summer sleep, not just in this area. I'm not saying it was just your responsibility, but I've heard your different opinions, your opposition, your pro-activity. It's nice and commendable to meet you at video conferences. Dialogue is important, and you're giving home leadership some power to survive this epidemic. But, Minister, you were the deciding officer, you had levers in your hands to pull the strings, and you didn't pull them. It's okay if today after you can't argue, you admit, yes, I've had calls, I've been aware of the situation, I haven't reacted. Personally, if you say that, I would appreciate you much more because when a person goes through all the documentation and everything that exists, he can't think any differently than I think, because it's facts. It's a fair 20. 4. In one of the letters you have at the Ministry when you write, I will quote, because it is very appropriate, this was April 2020: “We understand and realize that many solutions are not only within your competence and that it is necessary to cooperate with the entire Government, but that misunderstanding and failure in the current situation, and overlooking all our warnings and proposals can lead us to catastrophic, irreparable consequences.” Unfortunately, that's what happened. You knew, you were warned, you were aware and you did not act, and then you will be on the official profile of the Ministry – you basically abused it. You abused him, yes. Because if such things are published on the official profile of the Ministry, it also undermines some normal standards in this country. But okay, this is the way of this government. But to make a statement that the main problem was summer sleep, you react to the fact that fake is news, and then you live in some parallel universe. In a parallel universe where the power of the argument means nothing, the argument of power means everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The replica's got Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u94	Thank you. A brief replica of the Minister's answers, which also touched on the problems of privatisation at home for the elderly and ensured the construction of new ones, if I caught correctly, a thousand 100 and a thousand 200 cities and additional funds for building from the budget. Look, the privatisation of home care as an exit strategy from this coronary crisis is mislaid at the start. Why? Since we will all come out of the crisis economically and socially weaker, and private homes for the elderly, the Court of Auditors notes, are more expensive in their care for users and users. So what the state must do at this point, given that the image of ageing as it is, and the needs will increase, is to offer social and economically weaker society more affordable household care or, in other words, a respected minister, equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vice-President, the procedural proposal is that, in accordance with the adopted Code of Members and Members of the National Assembly, remind your colleague, Jerco Korča, who is now going to a personal level in the bizarreness of this interpretation and who insults the minister because he is a holy family. He's talking about a car for his big or something, a bigger family. This is not in accordance with the Code of Ethics, which is also signed by the List of MCS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u98	I don't know what code, colleague Horvat, is that I haven't personally received an apology for your lying that the government of Marjan Sarca followed you with aids. I didn't get that apology and I didn't get the list of Marjan Sharcas. In addition to using a BMW service vehicle, the minister bought another vehicle at the expense of the country, which corresponds to the number of his family, and it is nothing personal. It's nothing personal, it's public funds, it's public information and it's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. All users of service vehicles at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, including the Minister, use cars in accordance with the Regulation on the use of service cars in public administration bodies and established practices at ministries. The Ministry of Labour regularly renews its rolling stock, which is the responsibility of Ministry services, the Minister of Car Needs and pays the ratings for this. Minister, me, I gave up my personal use to a prestigious BMW and I prefer to choose a used VW Sharn because it is much more useful. Some would like to make an affair by driving a six-year-old Sharan instead of a prestigious BMW. The ministers of the last three governments had the following vehicles in personal use: Anja Kopač Mrak Audi A6, then Opel Insignia, Ksenija Klampfer BMW 520d, Janez Cigler King first Renault Megan, then VW Sharan. Thank you, Mr Horvath, for protecting the integrity of my family. Ladies and gentlemen, if the problem is that my wife and I have four children, please tell me. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u101	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. I kindly ask the Members and Members not to disturb the speaker when he has the word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Please, however, because we have so far held a very dignified and high-level debate, which remains for five and a half hours, almost five and a half hours to remain on this high level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to warn the Minister not to dispute with the Members, but to answer their questions here. What is happening to her colleague Jerzi Korča is essentially implying and inventing what she is supposed to read to him – colleague Jerca Korča just said that the minister has arranged his car for his needs and that he has therefore acquired another, cheaper, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u105	Dear Mr Reich, I remind you that you are in violation of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. This debate was not a procedural proposal. I'll take your word for it next time. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Jerca Korce's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u106	The minister just spent two minutes and 33 seconds responding to what apparently hurt him or ripped out of the context of my word. I threw it in the middle because I don't know what you were doing in the summer. What we should be dealing with is definitely not. I'd be happy if the next two minutes, five minutes, as much time as you need, you'd like to respond to any of the perceptions from the interpolation. I'll tell you one more time. Let's get on with it, maybe this is where it's gonna go. In a quarter of the cases were the spread of infections in the workplaces, data from the NIJ. What was the problem? Issue or non-issue of quarantine decisions and refunds. This is also said by epidemiologists from the NIJS district unit. For example, Mrs Irena Grmek Košnik says that the problem was that the quarantine decisions were stopped and people suspected of covid or mild symptoms could not stay at home. And you know where employers come in together? For example, Mr. Jakob Počavšek of Pergam and Mrs. Sonja Šmuc of the Chamber of Commerce found a common language on this subject and said together: “Because employees did not have decisions, they had to come to work despite risky contacts, because they had no document to communicate with and would impose an obligation on them to stay at home and, of course, allow them to receive cash compensation for their absence.” In Austria and Germany, I've already told you today, they're going to solve the matter quite simply. No matter where someone got infected or whether they suspected he was infected, whether he was quarantined or isolated for contact with an infected person at or outside the workplace, their income has not been reduced in all these cases. The state paid them a 100 percent refund. With us in Slovenia, the Minister, if the employee has come into contact with an infected person outside the workplace and has been quarantined, he received 80% of the salary. If there is a contact in the workplace, he will receive 100% of the salary. If he's infected outside the workplace and has to be in isolation, which is not quarantined, he'll receive 90% of his salary for the first 90 days. If he was quarantined, he made contact in the workplace and did not become ill with the co-vide, he was expected to receive 100% of his salary. If the worker is infected and the infection occurs in the workplace and is sick, the first month will be borne by the company. You have not taken care of legislation that would stimulate people to stay at home while the government has destroyed or has not been able to issue quarantine decisions. On 31 December 2020, Minister, on 31 December, you have just introduced 100% compensation, but pay attention, only for healthcare workers and homes for older citizens. Just for those. It was a problem of spreading infections and it was a problem of spiraling that there were more and more infections. That was the problem, too. Why did you decide who made such a decision, why you as a decision maker, as a minister, as a lawmaker that you brought to the National Assembly, as a member of this government, did you not make different proposals? That was in your jurisdiction. In your jurisdiction. Today you told me that the problem was the ESS, if I understood correctly. Don't you? Then where was he, Minister, a problem? Where was the problem that you didn't just draw the lines and say, "We don't care how the infection happened, we don't care if it's suspected or quarantined, or whether it's self-insulation or anything, 100% compensation, because this is how we're going to help reduce the spread of infections in jobs"? What was the problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare for Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u108	Thank you, President, for your word. Minister, you mustn't be offended by what we're telling you here because we're only telling you the truth. We're not saying anything here, you know. It's just information and facts, nothing else. You have the right to defend yourself, to speak your own words and what it is, but I have a feeling – do you know how I feel? That you're at a hearing session. At the hearing. You have been saying for hours and hours what you will do, what your promises are, what will be done with European funds. We don't even know if they'll be confirmed yet, so we don't have anything in our hands, absolutely nothing, you'll build no idea how many homes for the elderly, we'll do all of this, we've done nothing – we haven't done anything yet. Nothing! You've been there for a year and the results are practically catastrophic. Catastrophe. That's why you're here today. Why are you here on this trial? Because it's one process, actually, for you. And then we vote whether you kneel or stay, that's all. It's a living truth. That's all it is. And no problem, I'll tell you, don't be offended, we'll tell you things the way they are, no blame, no beauty, that's all. Now I'm going to go to the specifics. Do you know what you said before? You said one word that bit me — that you were the only government that didn't save the bank. Do you realize what you said? We'd better keep this thing quiet then. Yeah, there are your words, you said you were the only government that didn't save the bank. You'll get the magnetogram back. You know, we were saving the banks when our president was in government at the time, because of the nonsense you were doing in your government. You have to understand that. When I talk to you, I'm not talking about you personally, you know you won't think yourself. I'm talking about the system you introduced back then. We've saved thousands of bankruptcys. Let's just take a moment to understand what this is all about. Since those words, “you did not save the banks” – we had to save the banks because we were saving Slovenia, let's be clear. We've been saving this, you know why? Because if we were to return credits, your Bell 1, your Bell 2, T-2 and all that stuff, and that billion would come in, that debt wouldn't be necessary. Is he okay? And now I'm going to end up with this, because I don't think we've talked about this a lot, but it doesn't come into the ears. I don't know what you have, you can be different, I don't understand. You have this neoliberal, total incompetent leadership, catastrophic. One of the other things that really bothered me, I'll tell you in a hurry. Home in the Gardens. What three times have you mentioned this home in Vertojba and then boasted about how you finally saved it or what it is. Why wasn't this home in Wroteba saved before? There were other problems and other problems. But what did you do? You sold it. What did you do? Did you make a public, state home or something? You just sold it, and with that you did everything you had to do. Is he okay? And now you boast about what it is or what it isn't. So be it. In fact, you are doing nothing but doing what is right to continue what has already been posted. The home in Vrtojba was framed under the previous government, was not rigged now. Your Gardener doesn't do anything other than continue the good programs we've put in place before. And thank God he's doing good and he's doing good forward, I'm not saying, but he's got his own programs, you know? So let's be clear. The point of all of this is that you make huge promises, you say a lot of what you're going to do, but in fact, people who listen to us need to understand: there's nothing done yet. Nothing. Nothing, let's be clear. You've been terribly offended by that car of yours. I don't know why you're so offended. You could say, "Yes, it suits me that I have such a car," and it's over. What's the problem? That's not a problem. You've replaced a great BMW because it didn't work out for your family. It's normal, because you pay ratings, probably what needs to be done. I hope you're paying credit if you're using it for your family's purposes. Is that so or not? We'll see if you're paying credit, because there's no problem, and it's a good thing you're paying for it. And that's why you chose a car that's family that's right for you. There's no need. No need, because the cars were there. I have one word to say with this journey – President, allow me just two seconds – to Mr Lisc, who said one phrase, which is truly incredible, right for the intermezza. “We have the best government.” True, it is – you have the best government, but the worst results. And that's a fact. Okay? So you understand what this is all about. You always brag about what you do, what you do, but you haven't done anything yet, just promises, just on paper certain things. But you have a gold pit. The golden pit, which is blessed to remain in the debate, is burned. Thank you to the Fiscal Council – are you aware of this? In fact, the Fiscal Council has approved that you can go so far as to minus, if we say so, in our country. And what's left of it, we don't know yet, and it won't be enough at the rate you're doing. Now I'm going to go to the specifics. Perhaps so, Minister, you think we're beating the government here as an opposition, exposing ministerial work here instead of dealing with our agenda, initiatives, changes. I don't know who said something, one from SDS, I don't know when he said what to do here, we're wasting our time here instead of dealing with what I don't know. This is our gold, the holy right that if a man does not do the right thing — not to say other words — he will come here to say why he can still have this place that you now have. I'm going to say elegantly that I won't say another word because I don't think it's right. It's true, but you know, there are certain things that go through then, come over the edge of the normality of this almost unreasonable behavior and especially touch the limit if you put it that way, these incompetences, irresponsibility, clientelistic, corrupt actions. It is our job and our duty as citizens and as Members to report this and call everyone to the hearing. As a result, Your Honor, you must not be offended. Our right is to ask you and to answer you. Let's go to three points why we at SAB think it's right that you're being intertwined, why you're even here. We mentioned the first thing a lot, but it's only right to mention it, because people listen, it's homes for the elderly. You know, there were people dying out there who could probably have taken different measures between us today. I hope you're aware of that. I hope you're aware of that. I mean, my opinion and our client's opinion is that you've been irresponsibly working, absolutely, amateurally, unprofessionally. I'll tell you right now, no complaints or what needs to be done. That's what I mean, and that's what I'm saying. I'm not talking about your personality, I'm talking about your function, let's be clear. You have to share two things. One is your personality, and one is the function you have. And here's the problem. Your function is here today at the interpolation, not your personality. You're a good man, I'm sure of it. That's what this is about, okay? Given that you knew that the second wave would be stronger, because this was what they were saying all the time – we probably believed a little less, it could have been true, but all the time you were saying that the second wave was stronger, your President of the Government was also saying it all the time – but you probably weren't ready. You weren't ready for this, and that's why it's the result. It was literally a relief, if I may say so. I've heard silence all summer, not just from you, from others. We saw that the hospitals weren't ready. Nothing was ready for what needed to be done. But let's stop, there are other arguments. There was no intensive preparation, if you say so. You know, there's something else you need to be aware of, Mr. Secretary-General. 60% of the dead are in the nursing home. But here's what I'm going to tell you, you who also have a conscience that belongs to that category that also has a conscience. You know, we're not gonna have them on our conscience, but I'm afraid you're gonna have a little bit of a conscience about this dead guy. You're really gonna have a few. Because if you were to perform differently, with a different organization, you'd probably save a lot of these people. I'm sure of it, 100 percent! So it wasn't all done the way it was supposed to be done. Slovenia did not protect the elderly. I'm sorry, but they're not here. She put them in danger. She put them in danger, and you know it. Do you know why? Because sick people went there, those who were providers who were inside were infected because they weren't quarantined. Okay. This was happening, I'm telling you in the first person because I know two because they got the supplements because if they stayed at home, they'd lose all of this. And that's what's been going on. That's what's been going on. That's why they got infected because they went out, including people inside. This isn't our fault. Really, we're in the opposition. We're here, we're looking, we're crazy, we're crazy because of you, we're not normal here because we don't know what we're doing, you're the best. The best with the worst results, we know that. You know, one thing is very important here, and I've said it before, but I'm going to repeat it. A thousand eighty-six dead. A thousand, and that's the data, I'm sorry, for March 16th, there's probably more of them now. We're talking about a thousand 896 dead per million people. Okay? A million people. Germany has 883, and Austria has 990. 100 percent more dead. But here you will admit that you made a mistake? One mistake, did you make it or not? We have 100 percent more dead than in other countries per million inhabitants. Who's to blame here? Who's to blame here?Oh, my God! Is it our fault we're here at the back? What we wanted to do was help you with the amendments, with the words in your so-called antikoronic packages – you haven't accepted any. So much so that we're not responsible for the 4,000 dead. Let's be clear. Let's be clear about that. I'm going to wrap this up. I'm going to the other point. It's an affair to be honest with you. It was a strong matter, let's be honest. Now you raise your hands here, because it's right to raise your hands, but it's too late, you know, Minister, too late. You, you, you went off the property on March 10th, if I don't miss, that's what I was given. It's said a few days, a few days before you became Minister. You've already done Hearing. You're the founder of this institution, aren't you? Do you admit it? You're one of the founders of this institution. You tell me. This institution has never previously received or received funds but is small. Even as I saw the data, in 2012 and 2013 you returned the funds because you did not achieve the results in the institution, you returned them. All of a sudden, Minister Brickler King shows up and looks at the fragment, and he just happens to get 130,000 euros this year. Of the 135 candidates, only seven have been selected, of which the Honesty Institute receives the highest points. Who were on the evaluation committee? Members of your cabinet. You know, we can count one and one that's two. Minister, that can't be right. And that's the data! How could you put people from your office on a professional committee and even set the terms? Did you set up the terms?Oh, my God! That's the data. I've got it on the table. Crazy, yeah, crazy, really crazy. And what does this office do? Then a little person looks at what this institution does, who it deals with, or what its ideas are. It's against vaccination, that's the first thing. So vaccination is wrong and what is wrong. So you get the money because the government says you have to cross all of Slovenia, and we're in, and we're in, and we're in – and I'm going to go get vaccinated tomorrow, and I'm going to sleep for two hours because I'm coming home at four in the morning. But no matter what, do you understand? You were in that institution, you were a member and everything that it is, and it's against vaccination when today we know exactly what it means to vaccinate. Not to talk about the speculation of our Prime Minister of the government, who actually played Russian roulette with the lives of the citizens, because he didn't decide to buy certain vaccines, but let's just let it stand. You've seen that money has gone to NGOs, and you know for yourself that the non-governmental sector is a civil society builder. We all know that. The non-governmental sector is a civil society builder because they work because they really do, create, help. And now, I'm sorry, I've looked at the Honesty program, but I don't see it. Yeah, I've seen, I've seen articles, you're talking about homosexuality as a disease. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, sorry, that's what I have to say. That's what I looked at. That's what we financed. That's what taxpayers financed. 130,000 euros to teach the doctrine of homosexuality, that the disease is sick, total. We know for ourselves that this institution is ideological, political and all around human resources connected to New Slovenia. We know this because it's normal, because you have your newspaper, and it also finances your newspaper and everything that needs to be done. It's not that big of a deal, because it's okay, because you've found yourself, in your own words, and you have your own business here. There's one thing I have to tell you, not take bad for granted, Minister. Igor Vuk is still the director, if I saw it right, I think it's from this office. Igor Vuk. Really, I just saw inside, people make their own assessment of what this institution is honest here. He gave one study out and this is what we paid now with our taxpayer money, Self-satisfaction: how to stop? I'm sorry, but look, this is his letter, signed. Igor Vovk, director of the Honesty Institute, publishes such articles, that's what we pay. So that's probably these plus the points that you came from the first seven out of 135 bidders, I mean those who went to this invitation. I'm not going to talk about what's in here, what this director of yours is writing, because that's true -- it's better not to mention it, because I'm really scared. Let me just tell you why this is going on, why this is really important. I forgot to show you before, just to remind you, because you're already telling your diagrams, say, I'll show you this. [[shows the object]] Which is more interesting. You see, Slovenia, cumulatively confirmed deaths due to covid-19 per million people, see, here is Slovenia. Up here is Slovenia, here is Slovenia, here is Austria, Germany and then everyone else. These are excellent results, victories and successes of this government. Yeah. Then boast, we do not boast, we are sad. The number of deaths per million population, see see [[shows the object]] . EU average, Germany average and Slovenia. I don't think there's much to say here. You know, I think you should really take one responsibility for this. I think that would be right. The resignation is the least, probably you and the entire cabinet should give up, complex, everything you need, because it's your job completely here. Right here, well. Now I'm gonna go to the last point, President, and then I'm gonna finish. You understand what you want, but look, we're here to say things that people know. Your duplicity. Your duality, generally Christian Democrats, I'll say so. Do you know what you said recently? I'll tell you what you said. You have stated that you will take advantage of the interpellation and set the mirror for Slovenian society. After what I've just said, I think you'd better smash this mirror or put it in the closet, put that mirror in place, because it's really not right for this mirror. Really, well, let's get a little sober and see if it's true what it is and what it isn't. Because I only told the facts, I didn't say anything else. I was just reading here, what I got on the table, just the truth, without howling into the cellophane, I completely said it. One thing my colleague has already mentioned, but it seemed wise to tell you that I was going to finish. You, too, fellow Desus, who are there, I apologize, but you must not find it difficult. If one pope dies, the other is made — do you know what this means? So if this minister goes and you vote honestly with your conscience that this minister has to go, because after these results he has to go, they'll get another person and they'll give a new minister. That's not the problem. But he can't be in this place anymore. This minister here, in this place, after we've seen the data and what we've been talking about all day and we've been here, I don't know what, 10 hours or more. We've seen how many readings have fallen on this minister's account. We're just telling the truth, nobody's lying here. You said you would no longer fund NGOs with a declared left-wing agenda. This was the word of the populist Rebecca – a populist, I say twice a populist because he is three times a populist. Do you understand? I'll repeat it twice so you won't forget. This is the greatest populism in our national council. One and the same speaks constantly, one and the same, repeats one and the same stages, we are guilty of everything, he is guilty of nothing, he works, he will make results – yet promises. It will be, it can be, it can be, it can be results, no one says no, but for now it's just promises. Do you know what the promises are? Take, look. [[shows the object]] . That's what promises are. So far, these are promises. Do you have a little bit on your news? A little, a little. Not us, we don't. Minister, look, we don't have these people on our conscience. 60% of them died in the DSOs, 60%, not our fault, and you need to know that. I'm just gonna say one thing. When a person speaks in such a way that you will no longer finance until you are in government, these people, you will not finance these NGOs, these are threats. But I just told him not to do the job, or I won't back him up – I took responsibility and I gave up, honestly. And with these results, you stick to a chair with a loctite so you won't let go of that chair in any way. That's a big problem. That's a big problem. I hope there's at least so much right here and you'll step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Franc Jurša, ready for Nick Prebil. Here you go, Franz.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u110	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good evening to all who are in the hall, especially to the Minister! Marko, if everyone in Desus is to vote in favour of interpolation, there won't be enough votes because we need 46. So the call is on your side or your side, and I'm just answering. He's not flying to see his buddy Mark, but he's been bothering me all this time to tell me something. In this hall, in this hall, everyone can say what they want. That's all right, but anyone can lie, and that's not right. And then, of course, the lie goes to the truth. This is the biggest problem, and as a result, we have a society as we have it — destroyed. For starters, I thought I had to say this because it's been bothering me all day listening to all this. We must admit, as well as the proposaler of interpretation probably admits that the Minister has taken office in a very difficult situation, that he has not been in a good position, that times are relatively very difficult, and in this story he has made some mistakes, as well as certain benefits. We have to admit that to him, too. We must not just talk about what is bad, we must expose what is good, and, of course, play the role of what is bad. The caregivers home for the elderly, they were the first and also the worst target of the infamous virus, which, even after a year, does not appear to be the end. I believe you've put a great deal of effort into not having a disaster, even though the nursing home was just before the situation there could be described as devastating, sad. Minister, you've been on the ground a lot, you've been visiting homes, you've been solving problems, I believe this was your first concern, and so you've had a chance to see how they feel, how people who live there feel, how those who work in these homes feel. In Slovenia there are 59 public institutions and 43 concessionaires. Some 19,000 cities are available, which is absolutely insufficient for our needs. Indeed, as one fifth of the population is over 65 years old, today there are 425 thousand people over 65 years of age. Ten years from now, this number will be 100,000 more. The average age, respected, is 87 years in homes and 75% of residents need the most demanding health care. I think that says a lot. The fact is, homes for the elderly are crying out for stitches. You probably agree with me, there's about 12,000 people waiting for a home, and a thousand people would need a home right away. We didn't actually build a new house, you've all said that for 15 years and I also have to tell you that it was one of the last, if not almost the last, home in the city where I belong in the Municipality of Ljutomer. We have two houses built in half, that's in Vrtojba and Osilnica, but the question is what's actually going to happen to the Osilnica. We still don't know what fate lies ahead for the Keeper and the Spinner. The country has been betting on concessionaires for the last 10 to 15 years regardless of the color of power. You also went to the concessions tender six months ago and allocated a thousand 285 beds to concessionaires, even though you are aware that the prices of private care are almost a third higher and that our people are very difficult to afford. We have to admit that. In Desus, we regret that in the past there has been no concern about the development and upgrading of public household care and that private access has been allowed. If we have already allowed this, however, it is a key error for the State not to ensure that the supply prices are at least about the same regardless of the operator. Unfortunately, I must say that prices are not harmonised and are not public within public institutions. And here is a task, Mr Minister, in which it would indicate a number of efforts to bring all these matters together. Nevertheless, let us not forget that the low pensions of our pensioners do not allow many of our pensioners to afford to stay in public or even less in a private home or home of the concessionaire. If I go back to building a home. If I recall correctly, the budget for 2021 provides 30 million euros for the construction of new homes for the elderly, which is why I am interested in what activities, if any, you have taken them up to this day in the ministry and in the government. In addition to the spatial distress in nursing homes, there is also a problem of human resources malnutrition and the standard of services themselves. This is not about the fact that employees do not carry out their work in a quality manner; it is about the fact that the services of the force are mutilated; and it is about the fact that workers in health care and social care are burdened with regard to the number of caregivers they have to take care of 24 hours a day. The increasing life span of the population calls for a substantial number of contributions to care for older people. In view of the monitoring of demographics, which is not favourable to us, long-term care should be a priority policy theme for responsible ministers, i.e. you and, of course, the healthcare minister. We still have no proper place in this area, and I am concerned that this law will never see the light of the world. According to our assessment, the former Minister's content proposal has been well conceived, and I regret that we do not yet have it on the table. I'm pretty worried about the announcement that he's going to be transferred to the fall. Already with this law and, of course, with the organisation of this area, many could also solve the problem. The new minister is of your kind, you have participated in the preparation of the last current proposal, you have seen the situation in the field of home, both through the eyes of the elderly and of course also the employees, so I suggest you and I put it to your heart, do not waste time that is not really there anymore. Do not delay your work in this area, but bring this law to life. Now there's another point that also concerns the older generation and I can't get past it. It is true that in anti-Korona packages, people have been taken care of as individually as well as economically, but your idea of compulsory retirement has been given a negative assessment by me personally and in the whole of our Group of Members. We have warned you, you have sat between us five Members, not to make handball moves in this area, because the right to work is the right to economic security, which a person is guaranteed by his own work, a fundamental human right. You have made a strong illogical move against the aspirations and efforts for voluntary extension of work, both professional and political, as well as social partners. Workers, or if you're going to give anyone a lump and a stick at the same time, it's an extremely inappropriate thing to do. But I understand that you are a young and enterprising man, so I don't blame you for such recklessness. After all, the last word will be given by the Constitutional Court. Here, however, I cannot pass through a parliamentary group that appears to be a great advocate of the elderly and the older generation, but has allowed this proposal to be adopted in the vote. I hope that the Constitutional Court will also annul this. This is Alenka Bratushek's emissary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, good evening! The time is 22 and we have a good five hours to discuss, but I will focus on something that has not been well exposed today. First, allow me another brief response to the long-standing position of Ambassador Eve Irgl of the SDS party. The talk was about continuing the mirror to the opposition. I think you replaced it with a coalition because it was more of a mirror setting to yourself. In fact, the investments you're talking about and that they haven't been made were not possible because of the law of the second government. This was the law of Zujf, which provided for the cessation of all and a number of investment, additional employment and education procedures, and also because of this law we do not have sufficient medical personnel in the country to fight this epidemic today. I can agree with you at work when you said it could have been done more – it could have been, it was a fact, but you in the government are spending resources that are not, you're wasting poof, actually. It is also true that people get it, I agree with it, but it is far from the fiscal sustainability we want, and it is also far from that – or you know it well, and I know that you will admit that this would not be possible if the fiscal rule were still in force. This is some benefit that the previous governments certainly did not have, so you can also spend this money with which the minister boasts. This, in my view, is misleading and wants to show a situation that is not actually there. I'm jumping to what's actually the darkness today. Minister, in all this long-standing debate, it is somehow clear that you have not done your tasks in at least one part. The most crucial and, in fact, the saddest and most weight-bearing of your political responsibility has resulted in the number of deaths in this epidemic, and these are homes for the elderly. Why? Because you have not followed or heard expert opinions or employees in your homes, which have warned you of problems with both premises and financial and liquidity problems. You left infected residents in your homes, and it was also very late to introduce mandatory testing and additional measures to protect residents, such as temperature measurement, wearing mandatory masks to enter the institution, this was all introduced too late. I'm not going to talk about my own ambitions today, about some personal car, about advertising on state costs and promoting some private institutions that are spreading exactly the opposite propaganda to what the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities are, in fact, devoting and defending. In response, the minister gave a whole bunch of meetings in style, look how many meetings I had, we talked a lot – although no results – I made my own decisions, but still, these meetings were a lot. I'm really asking myself, who really cares what the point of that answer is, if the result, we see, there was no one. Your client often boasts here and thanks the health staff. Well, let's see what you ministers have done for these health workers in nursing homes. I think that we can agree, or we can all agree here, that workers in health homes have really worked with really great efforts, as well as health workers elsewhere and other professions, but I will really stay with the DOSes. Shifting work, human resources distress, high risk of infection, not least working with the seriously ill and also the dying. The result is exhaustion, burnout, and, in fact, some experience of employees, which will leave them with a bitter taste. They always put others first, they gave up vacations, and some of them were for quite some time, I know a case like this, away from their families, so that they wouldn't bring the infection into their own home. All these employees, whom you too, the minister – unfortunately he is not here – thank you. Even that famous flight of planes was organized at the end of the first wave of the epidemic — bravo, these people really have a lot of it. It's too bad they're not going to reverse this plane, 'cause I'd be doing two laps by now. And you threw another 75 grand for this flight — great. As a kind of comfort to these employees, they were certainly coronarys for employees in those first battle lines, i.e. health workers and social workers. At the end of the first wave, however, it was shown that there were various complications in the payment of these supplements and that a number of workers did not receive this supplement or received it to a lesser extent than was promised. I myself have reminded you, as Minister of the Corinthians, of the irregularity of payment, which some of the questions sent have been given and it has been ensured that this will be settled, but this has not been settled until today. If I go even further, up to two supplements were already eligible in the first wave, up to that after the collective agreement and to that for danger and special burdens. Only with PKP5, this was the end of October last year, a 30% allowance was reinstated to work with covid patients. And even this was originally planned by the Government for an extremely narrow circle of users, only for a time when there was no declaration of the epidemic, and this was, in our view, too low, in the LMŠ. When we talk about this PKP5, until the PKP7 it took that circle to finally expand and that the supplement was also received during the epidemic. Despite our warnings, many of the amendments tabled and the warnings of the Social and Health Care Union have, however, been submitted a new law on PKP5, with which we wanted to increase the allowance for direct work with covid patients, i.e. for healthcare and social workers, from 30% to 65% and also extend the range of beneficiaries to this supplement. Well, Minister, you and your NSI company voted against this law. So the health workers, the respected public, the minister and the NSI, are against getting a supplement for non-life efforts in this epidemic. They're against it. Why are you against, please tell people, because I think you'd like to hear it. So, you're against the reward promised by the government, against the reward that the Prime Minister wrote that everyone would get paid overtime twice. Well, that's still not there. The payment of these supplements is still late, it is at the end of the second wave, and we are obviously seeing with the beginning of the third. This is also due to the financial difficulties of certain institutions, and you have been warned about this, which, of course, is why they can pay these supplements only when they receive a refund from a country that lasts on average from two to three months, so that is the delay. As far as I know, the minister was also aware of this, but of course nothing. I will now give December a statement or a warning to the Minister: "You said that the state would provide funds with a two- to three-month delay, which is a huge burden for employers, and this delay will be borne by workers. We believe that another solution should be found either in the form of short-term loans or through loans and state advances. This must be resolved through dialogue, because I stress that it is the wages of workers. They are late to pay those who are in the front line and there is no dialogue with the Ministry.” So much for this social dialogue. And the reality is that so far many DSOs have not received a paid allowance from the state, i.e. from your ministry. So now I am asking and really asking for an answer to at least the question of when this will be resolved and when the people who are fighting this epidemic will receive the promised funds. I hope I get an answer, considering there's no minister. Let me practically show what I just said in the case of the House of Danica Vogrinec of Maribor. Homes do not make profits and their employees’ benefits that are adopted by law, so they cannot pay – because they spend money on services, at least until the country refunds it as it is said. By 10 March this year, they did not even pay the euro because they did not receive the money from the country. Moreover, the State is also delaying the refund on external leases, i.e. to place patients where the Ministry has requested them. The State Secretary of Uršič at this ministry said that the institution received 2.2 million euros from the country, but now I'll tell you what was going on with this 2.2 million. Of these, 1.6 are only for the refund from the first wave and for the covered obligation of unscheduled beds and personal protective equipment, for additions in the second, worse and significantly longer-lasting wave, of course, there is virtually no. This is just one case and many of these things happen in other DSOs. It seems to me that it is true that what he has been promised is paid to someone — not even what he himself has asked for, what he has been promised — a minimum that these employees deserve, even though they deserve significantly more than money can pay, but it is something. The minister also speaks, you know, 8,000 euros is the cost of hospital treatment, up to 80 euros is the cost of treatment in a nursing home. I'm not going to prejudge why the difference is like that, but here I'm asking where are the same possibilities that the minister should be. This is certainly not the same option. Now I'm going to read here another thing that seems catastrophic. I don't know where your face is, really. “When the infection inside the house began to spread, the Ministry instructed us that the red area should be moved along with the infected. The rent was a sports hall because it was required by the profession. We installed the perimeter walls, rented the beds, got the oxygen bombs, and when the account came in, it stuck. On the basis of the payment of the invoices issued in the home, we have submitted a request for a refund to the Ministry, which belongs to us under anti-korona law, mainly because the Ministry of Labour agrees, and of course this request has been rejected by the Ministry on the grounds that the costs are too high.” Are you kidding? Excuse me. Surely you hope to say this to someone who arranges matters on the basis of your instructions! Make sure, even though you've been late with instructions for months to separate the infected from the uninfected, and then you say, yes, the costs for this are too high, I apologize, do it your way, you won't get the money for this. Don't be shy! You know, there are always patients in the first place, and there will be patients, but the ethical drive is over once. You can't work indefinitely on the ethical drive. Tell me who was out of the praises that your client so splendidly spends — even today we have heard: I thank you all once again — ever so much that I can hear you. Nobody. I also have a feeling that you have some sort of decoration there in the government. When he suggests what you like, it's great and you spend it out loud, when he suggests something that doesn't suit you, it practically doesn't exist for you and you do it your way. You know, today, Minister, I'm gonna tell you what I told the Minister a few days ago. Of course, you can be confusing and it is quite clear that we have all come together in an epidemic that the modern world has not known to this day. But when you make a mistake, you are warned, not once, repeatedly, but not only by the political gender, when you are warned by the epidemiological profession, when you are warned about it by your own ministry, then it is no longer just an epidemic, but it is a problem mainly in you, and also the blame is on you and thus on responsibility. Your non-action, overheard warnings and the fact that there are huge and enormous numbers for this epidemic, both infected and unfortunately deceased, is the fact that the government has crashed somewhere. Now I'm just going to tell you about the case. Number of confirmed cases between health care providers and the rest of the population. On the day that the government was taken over by a team led by Janez Janša, we had five infected caregivers, 41 were infected in the rest of the population, a total of 46. 46 infections have been left to this government by the government of Marjan Šarc because it has acted properly. The result of your government, however, is 12 thousand 149 infections in nursing homes, 188 thousand 430 infections among the general population, 200 thousand 579 infected in 2 million Slovenia. Number of persons killed on 13. 3.: No caregivers, nothing among the rest of the population. So no one has ever since the day John Janša was taken over by the government, died after the man. The measures taken by the former Government were therefore very good. Let's take a look at the result of your government, Your Honor. On the 14th. 3.: 2 thousand 57 dead in nursing homes, 2 thousand 163 dead in the general part of the population, 4 thousand 220 dead after the covido-19. And then one of you dares tell me that everything was done in nursing homes to prevent infection and death. Because it wasn't more than obvious. In a function that is primarily in the service of the people, whether it is my job or your job, Minister, we have political responsibility in this service for all, especially for the people. Responsibility that is sustainable and does not disappear during the term of office or disappear after the term of office. This responsibility, which is upon you today, which has been seen both in the interpretation and in our debates, will remain with you no matter what. Failure to accept this responsibility is only an indicator of ignorance to the function and ignorance of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I cannot welcome the Minister because he is not in the Chamber at the moment, but I will welcome the distinguished Secretary of State, who I hope will note our questions, and my colleague has asked me several questions. I'm going to start where today's biggest speech was by the coalition: to sit down again in the National Assembly, to have another interpretation now, to spend the taxpayer's money all together, and the reports were flying to the Social Democrats. Let's do it in a row. We do not spend tax money because we are sitting here today; if we sit 17 or sit 18 or sit 30 hours, we will be paid exactly the same, the end of the month will be the same. That's the first one. However, I am extremely sorry for the professional colleagues who are accompanying us, that this meeting is taking place today, which must indeed be here and then to do the work tomorrow. However, the work process is organised by the National Assembly, and I believe that they will be able to do it here as well. The exact same story was, or most likely, more here if the story were reversed – that today’s opposition would be in the government and thus bring about this epidemic than you are. I think we'd be sitting here, not just so far as there's only two interpretations, but there'd be countless interpretations, sitting between morning and evening. To sum it up, there have been several talks today about how much money we could have or how many homes we could build for the elderly. In previous mandates, how many referendums have you convened? 19. How much did that cost us? 40 million. How many homes could we build with these 40 million we had to give for the referendums? Those are the questions. And yes, that's also why homes haven't been built in the last 10 years, and also because of other things, because they were in crisis at that time. On the other hand, today, when I listen to this debate, I mean, thank God, on the one hand, that we don't have any more homes, because we would have had more deaths. If I touch this interpolation. I must say, at the hearing the current minister really convinced me, I was all inspired by optimism, and that's one such minister that we can count on. But of course, at the end of the day, when he took over this function, he, of course, faced an unenviable situation, I absolutely believe that, but I also believe that he didn't even know what shoes he was wearing. In the beginning, I will say, he showed some optimism and hope that he will be able to perform the great task assigned to him and that he will be able to do it effectively, but he soon came to know himself or that he was sadly wearing too many shoes. I'll keep telling you why I think so. Facing the epidemic wasn't part of it. The control of the epidemic was not the government that is sitting in this place today. I'm just going to focus on acting at the 1st point of interpolation, that's home for the elderly. I'll start like this. If it was somehow understandable that there was indecisive behaviour at the time of the first wave, when the homes for the elderly faced great uncertainty, when they were essentially looking for protective equipment that was simply nowhere to be found, even in the world no, it was all still somehow to be understood, unfortunately this understanding in the second wave should no longer be. Why not? Because at the first wave, the government announced publicly and clearly that we were facing an even worse second wave in autumn and that everything would have to be done. I wonder, as has been said several times today, that minister, like the government, fell asleep between the first and second waves. The government fell asleep for me like Trnuljica. That's why there's no forgiveness for this minister. What happened in the fall, in the fall, was really unacceptable. If I touch just the first wave. When the Silver Thread also called, 9 / 1 4. When she addressed a public letter to the Minister and also to the parliamentary groups to act immediately on the situation in the homes for the elderly, a press conference spoke to speed up the implementation of teams of doctors and nurses to help resolve the situation. But it continued, the number of covids infected among the elderly grew, and in 2020, according to the National Institute for Public Health, 2 000,891 people died associated with covid-19, of which 682 or 58% of the deceased caregivers died at home for the elderly. Only – the word is just a little strange in this context – a thousand 209 and 42% died elsewhere. That's sad information. And when we heard in today's debates, more than 12 hours of debate that we haven't built any homes for the elderly in 10 years – even no new investment in homes for the elderly in the past could predict these crisis situations that we faced during the epidemic. No one has imagined in recent years what is going to happen, to what extent this epidemic will be this year. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that according to Eurostat, today we are eight per 100,000 population of DSOs. So we're just not so weak in these capacities. However, I must say, it was a wrong decision recommended by the Minister to carry out medical treatment in social welfare institutions when he wanted and recommended that three different zones be established in nursing homes for the case of infection, a green, a grey and a red zone. This made the homes for the elderly in great distress, since the directors did not know how to arrange it, since the spatial capacities and the architectural guidelines did not allow it. I must say that in the opposition and also in non-governmental organisations, we have warned that some kind of external red zone would be made to move infected caregivers home for the elderly. They haven't been heard from here. There would be no need to redecorate gyms, other accommodation facilities in tourist facilities that could only and only be slightly adapted to the needs of the elderly and could be substantially different from, or less likely to be, these infections. As the government prepares for the so-called third wave of infections, the question is also today, because many people have already been vaccinated, both employees and caregivers at home for the elderly, but we do not know whether this vaccine will be effective or not, what will happen after the third wave can we face again the problems we face in this cruel second wave. I have to touch on this subject, too, a meeting was convened, the drawing up of lists received by homes for the elderly or the setting up of lists that will receive only palliative care. We have been discussing these lists for hours and hours, and I am most concerned by the statement that was published in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I will also quote: "In doing so we must face the fact that there are many people living among the elderly, especially among the providers of DSOs, who are slowly running out of life. Even with them, moving to a hospital just because they are infected with a new coronary virus makes no sense.” And this is one of the worst decisions anyone could have ever made, and then the minister didn't jump in the air and say, "Stop joking!" I don't know how many years in the health department, but the basic medical care that can be offered to him in the hospital is denied. Don't joke! That's for sure I don't know where to send or I'd step down at the minister's place in a moment. Because that doesn't work, and I can't imagine. This raises a serious question to me whether the government is even aware of what will happen if any of the relatives of the deceased begin to seek justice because their relatives at that time were not offered comprehensive care in the face of illness and because they died because of covid, of course, other associated diseases. Believe me, if I were my own man, I'd definitely be looking for justice. Because not to offer him hospital care So believe me that many times the elderly say themselves, I will not go to the hospital – okay, then yes, but to someone who begs, please give it to me, take care of me, and not to offer it, I think it is extremely unacceptable. [[…]] In the opposition, we have repeatedly warned you to try to do everything you can to protect this weakest population. On our part, there are also indications that it was mandatory to test for employees too late. Because then the infected could be removed from the working environment and the infection would not spread among this weakest population. Then I must also touch the most painful things – that Minister Janez Cigler the King did not react when State Secretary Tina Bregant decreed that infected asymptomatic health workers could work in nursing homes in red zones. But don't joke if he can't be infected or leave his home! If we want to and if we wanted to keep the infections out, these people have to stay at home between the four walls. At that time, the minister was supposed to hit the table and say, "Stop joking, it's really not acceptable." Even if I were to say that the discriminatory treatment of caregivers who stayed in nursing homes, where they got their home for such 81 euros, and those who moved them to hospitals for 8 000 euros, I really don't know where it's going. Or rather, Mr Suselj stated at that time that this is not illegal, but it is non-systematic. Non-systemic solutions, however, are not long-term solutions. So there will be a lot of work to be done here in the future. Now I will touch only things about long-term care and why it is not mentioned in this interpretation. 15. 12. I asked a question to the minister, today we are 18. 3. 2021 and I didn't get an answer. But I asked about the long-term care law, about pilot projects that had already expired 31. 12. what will be the way forward, where they are, what is wrong with these people. In the public debate, there was a law on long-term care, and the debate concluded in October – where is this law now? It's been four months now, or more, I'm sorry. Do we have the results of this public debate, what were the comments? Will this law see the light of the world? I am truly disappointed, on the one hand, that there was no answer. I believe there's still a lot to say, but I might be able to make a dot here. I've probably missed a lot of things yet, but, indeed, the distinguished minister, wherever you are, and I hope you're also watching, you're wearing one big black mark in dealing with the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor, Ms Tadeja Šuštar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I'll start where my predecessor ended up. Dear Minister, wherever you are, my words will be addressed to you. I'm not going to touch your office. Honestly, I'm not going to touch your car. Because this thing is moral, taste, whatever it is, and they've already told me a lot about it, and I think you're going to be tried elsewhere because of these things, not here in the National Assembly. But it seems unacceptable for you to say: “I will not apologize to anyone for what I am and what I will do.” Dear Minister, wherever you are, the ministers accept responsibility and we accept responsibility for the politicians. On the contrary, we are witnessing complete ignorance, arrogant, double morality, no shame, no remorse, we are witnessing lies, deception, non-participation with the opposition, unions, with the ESS, ignoring the profession. And all these things are a reason for your responsibility. And we keep listening to the criticism and blaming, I don't know, the opposition, the former government, let me remind you that Janša's government is now the third time and that you've participated so much in everyone. [[…]] Janševa's government from 2004 to 2008, from 2011 to 2012, where we cashed Zujf, which has reduced pensions by up to 26,000 pensioners by 8%. New Slovenia had a Minister for Social Affairs at that time, and this was Janez Drobnič from 2004 to 2006, then Marjeta Cotman from 2006 to 2008. So we could build the DSOs, and don't read why nothing has been built so far. Let me stress that this is not about the left and right, it is about the democratic opposition and the one-minded government of Janez Janša, where everyone has obeyed him and so must be. New Slovenia – and I did not believe that this minister would be a miracle now, regardless of being very handsome and smiling very nicely, very good speech and very little and bad work – is only the most neoliberal party. The doors are served by lobbyists, insurance, privatisation, and even though you've privatized, sold, deregulated for 30 years, there's still something left, you haven't destroyed everything. What exactly are we reading to you, Minister, wherever you are? You have not done your work and you are responsible for death, objectively and subjectively. You know, this is where the joke stops. This high blood tax is paid for this ignorance of yours, and I will also say solitude. Because politics and being a minister is not, you know, an opportunity to improve their social situation, but it is a challenge to improve the social situation of the population, especially if you are a minister for work, not a minister for employers. In short, you're guilty of a lot of things and what we can read to you is that you are now bragging about how you raised the minimum wage. You've only done this under the pressure of the unions, and under threat of strike, you've agreed to a minimum wage rise. Then you were publicly bragging about how you guaranteed a minimum wage, even though you were bound by the law. You also boast in response to this interpolation that it is you who have provided the minimum wage, even though you have only carried out what the law has imposed on you, which provides a minimum wage, and we have written it in Levica and accepted it together with the parties under the previous government. The new Slovenia, of course, objected to this, because you are always complaining about what will happen to employers, you abstained in the vote. Minister Janez Brickler King with a minimum wage raise has nothing. On the contrary, I could have picked it up for more, but he didn't want it. Then harmful subsidies to pay the lowest wages. Again, 50 Euros were to be added to the prizes or, yes, contributions to companies that did not show some terrible loss during covid's time. We have barely prevented these poor workers from losing their contributions, and they are now getting out of the budget, in the last, PKP8, this has been voted out. And if I tell you the case of a company that has 2,000 employees and is already receiving from the Government or from the budget 300 euros per employee to the minimum, which comes about 600 000 per month, this measure gets another 100, in short, one million per month. Of course, there is a company that can afford to buy other companies. In short, at the expense of the exploitation of workers, the well-respected Minister of Labour. You have forgotten to align the lowest entry for students and this is an injustice that you obviously do not intend to correct in spite of the decision we took on the committee on Friday 12. 3. You've damaged students for 100,000 euros. In the PKPs, students who have to work for survival have been completely released. Privatisation of long-term care. We know we've got two unfinished homes, they're in Osilnica and Vertojba. You, instead of adding them, with the money we receive from Europe and we also owe ourselves, have, of course, re-enacted concessions to private individuals, despite the fact that homes are for older people and many cannot afford them. I don't know if you have any idea where you live, but they're almost a third more expensive. But of course you will give $30 million to DOS privates, who will then quietly market activities there. In short, the government will spend only 202 million of the 5 billion European funds in the next six years, says only 4%, devoted to the health system and only 99 million, that is only 2%, social protection and long-term care. At the annual level, this is only 37 million for health and 16.5 for social protection, including long-term care. Refunds. Why was the cobbler so widespread, and why is there such a high death tax in Slovenia? Only because you encouraged the presentation. Sick elderly people were being treated by infected people who could not afford to stay home and not get decisions. This is a crime, Your Honor, wherever you are. In the first battle lines, people who worked with patients did not receive supplements and the highest supplements were received by many who did not even see the patients. On the side of his New Slovenia party we hear: thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. But it's not something to live on. We should pay people for what they did. Not that they went to work sick and spread infections. The most deaths were in nursing homes, there were no red zones where they were isolated, I know firsthand that they were lying sick and healthy together, dying and those who were supposed to live, and that the staff were undernourished and underpaid. I'm afraid my time has run out, but there's a lot more to say. It's a sad thing, Minister, that you don't accept responsibility, that you're cynically smiling and that you're guilty of a huge death. Maybe they'll judge you where you believe, you don't believe us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Tadeja Šuštar is next, Ms Elena Zavadlav Ušaj is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. First, let me tell the predecessors that John the Brick King is really not in the Kingdom Hall right now, but he was inside all the time, and he probably deserves something to eat or go to dinner. But I believe that it follows the debate and listens to everything others say. Today we are dealing with another interpolation, which is another nonsense. At the beginning of the meeting, three quarters of her initial presentation was addressed by the interpellationary proposer for reasons affecting the other ministry and the minister, who had long since given up. I don't know if it really understands that care in nursing homes is divided into two ministries, the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for the health aspect of care, where the fight against coronaviruses, infections, restrictions and treatment of patients, and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is responsible for the social aspect of caregivers. It is obvious that you have used all the deceased in nursing homes in order to discredit Minister Janez Cigler King because you cannot interpellate against the retired Minister Gantar. I also don't think I would ever, because Karl Erjavec is after all your last candidate for term. Minister Janez Cigler The King is young, energetic, calm and dignified and especially a man of dialogue. He has a large family, which means that his ministry is close and he understands family issues from his own experience, he is an expert and empathetic and great advocate of intergenerational solidarity and a great fighter. All blows by the opposite side to him shall cease with dignity, without distracting his focus on his values and goals. The most important aim of the Minister in the field of labour is to create an enabling business environment in Slovenia that will enable the development of the potential of each individual. Young people need to get a chance at home, work needs to be paid and we need a partnership between employers and workers. The Minister strongly promotes the work activity of all groups of the population. We will balance the legal situation of employers and workers with the measure of a concerted extension of the labour relationship. A worker who continues to work despite the fulfilment of all pension conditions is entitled to 40% of his pension in addition to his salary. That's fair, because he earned his pension. In the new light, such a worker will be able to continue the working relationship if the employer agrees. I believe that this measure will be put into effect as soon as possible. So we create a mutual relationship because we are aware that no one will forgive a good worker. We allow any worker eligible for retirement to continue his work and not throw anyone on the road, and we allow the employer to replace an unmotivated worker with a motivated worker, thus opening up opportunities for youth employment. As a result of the Coronavirus epidemic, the market situation has deteriorated significantly. From January to November 2020, a total of 90 000 unemployed persons applied to the Employment Office, 35% more than during the same period last year. The job vacancies that they received at the Employment Office in 10 months of 2020 were poor 108 000, which is 22.5% less than in the same period last year. From last year to this year, the number of young people aged 15 to 29 increased by 19.6% and 55 years and by 5.5%. Between January and November 2020, 3 000 574 young people decided to seek employment abroad. In 2019 15 thousand 160 inhabitants of Slovenia moved abroad. Fifteen thousand 160. It is important to remember that the measure will still allow employees to remain in a working relationship with the employer, but they will be able to change the working environment and work on different conditions, including better conditions. Let me also mention the invitation to tender mentioned in the last paragraph of the interpolation. The problem of the Iscreni Institute points to the state of extreme intolerance in the Slovenian public space. Everything related to Christianity is seen as impatient, dark, and backward. A non-governmental organization that advocates Christian values, the importance of family, patriotism, is denied the right to public funds. The IMF has more than ten public tenders per year, funding more than 270 different non-governmental organisations, with over €50 million allocated to them. Have you ever heard of anyone else? Every day we hear new stories about what is not supposed to be right; the composition of the invitation to tender commission, the changing of the tendering conditions, the inadmissibility of the institution's visual views. But we all know that there's only one problem. So let's be honest. With what the left-wings have a problem, the most beautiful summary of Ali Jerdin's statement from Studio City said: “I am more disturbed by the programme of action than by the fact that the Minister was co-founder.” Thus, NGOs that have such a programme of action that is not attractive to the left-hand side of the world should not, in your opinion, receive state resources, regardless of the fact that a significant part of society is identified with values that are advocated and promoted by NGOs such as the Honesty Institute. The statement by colleague Vojko Starović in the position of the SAB Group that he has received funds from a discriminatory institution is directly unacceptable. So the SAB party has all the Catholics as discriminatory because we respect life from beginning to natural death because we defend the irreplaceable role of fatherhood and the role of motherhood. Of course, I will not support the interpretations of Minister Janez Brickler King. This is a minister who believes in a free, valuable plural and tolerant Slovenia. Respect for diversity, search for common points and overcoming differences and intergenerational solidarity are the fundamental values of its operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Kordish first. Just a moment, Mr. Kordish. Can we calm down in the hall and let the Member speak his own replica? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We were very clearly misunderstood in Levica, such as Comrade Violet Tomić, who in her discussion repeatedly highlighted the absence of Minister of Brick King in the Chamber. I understand, of course, that the interpolation started — when? – At ten o’clock in the morning, the hour is now approaching eleven, it will be 13 hours long as we sit in this hall, and of course I understand that the minister must rest for the evening, I also understand that he needs something to eat, and he must have had breakfast then lunch, now he probably came from dinner. But do you know who doesn't have all of these options, which is why we're seeing the Minister's absence? Employees in nursing homes in a crisis situation worked for 12 hours in a piece, under a mask, under a protective helmet, stuck in their clothes. Earlier, Comrade Siter spoke of what he saw as a volunteer in the nursing home of the oak trees — they wore swimsuits under all this clothing because they worked so hard and had no other options. And these are the people that Minister Brickler King left behind. He let them down by not really taking on their extras, giving priority to some higher wages. Even so, what came into law with the coronations was late due to the fact that the apparent ministry under the King’s Brick is not even capable of carrying out an accounting operation in time to allocate funds from the budget to the elderly’s homes so that they can pay for the garages in the homes of older citizens, such as nurses. Mrs Tadeja Šuštar from New Slovenia continued on the basis of an explanation that they would motivate workers with forgiveness, not with better salaries. And the Minister for Labour is like that! And to close the issue of corruption and to adapt the invitation to tender for the NSI House Department, the Office of Honesty. This impression doesn't fly on you because you're Christians because I don't believe that most Christians are criminals. But what is happening with the setting up of invitations under the government of John Janša is certainly a crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivc has a second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Obviously, Mrs Šuštar did not fully understand our arguments, why we find it absolutely unacceptable that the Honesty Institute has received the highest possible number of funds on the call for proposals. In fact, it is not a Christian or clerical problem, as you would like, the orientation of the institution, the problem is that the owner of this institution was himself and that it is problematic from this point of view that this institution has even come into a narrower selection and that it has obtained the highest number of funds. We're only putting this in trouble, so please don't turn around and make a sacrifice. And the other thing about home. You have repeatedly pointed out that during the previous governments there were no homes built and so on, which I agree with and is bad. But one thing we forget is that the first Janšev government, in 2004-2008 under the Minister of New Slovenia, adopted a strategy for the development of social institutions and homes for older citizens by 2015, or until when it took, where it was clear that concessions should be made, concessional homes, which was the worst possible mistake. Since then, concessional homes have been built instead of building state homes for older citizens. This is the biggest mistake that started then and continues today. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Very well greeted, Minister and Secretary of State and all other colleagues and colleagues! We've been sitting here for a really long time today, and I feel like I'm watching a woman with three parts. We're listening to part two today, part three next week. The best thing that ever happened to me at the beginning of this pantyhose was in the opening address of Minister Cigler King when he said that this interpretation was a mirror of the relationship to the elderly in recent years. Why is that? Because you blamed him all the time during the debate for his guilt and that this government was responsible for the deaths in the homes of the elderly. He thus showed you the actual state of responsibility for the deaths in the homes of the elderly — all past governments. Because they did not provide — and those governments where you were — for higher standards of living in the homes of older citizens. This ministry has recently given, in addition to other calls, a call that will go this way to improve the quality of living in the homes of older citizens. It is clear, therefore, that when this government concludes its mandate – despite accusing it of not knowing how much money it will spend or not know – it will obviously not put into proper use – leave a better situation for itself, a better situation for the elderly and a better situation for the whole area of social life. You know, it's nice to say, "we left a good financial situation" by not doing anything or remaining funds, the rest of the money you spent on NGOs, for some studies that actually didn't contribute much to people. That is why today we have such a condition and so many deaths in the homes of the elderly. However, since we are already talking or you want to stress how many deaths there are in Slovenia towards other countries, there is little miss. Because when a comparison is made, it is not only possible to collect certain numbers from the context, but it is necessary to know how this death was counted. In Slovenia it was considered different from other countries in Europe, which can then show such a high number. It's misleading people because not so many people actually died from covid disease. The same is true when you make comparisons because of the system, how compensation is paid and hospitals in other countries. You know that this government is working on a lot of debarcation, and this also shows that it will simplify the procedures that have also proved to be a major obstacle to the payment of allowances and to all other matters. As far as paying the allowances is concerned, there were problems at first, but again because of the system itself, when the system ran out, I do not believe what you said today – that some have not actually received the payment after all this time. The payment was not paid by the one who failed to submit the application or misapplied it. The Ministry has no reason not to pay the allowances. For I will tell you myself that I have inquired at our institutions in Goriška, and they are glad that they have received these supplements, and they are not hard to do, because they know that they are helping people. In fact, they are rewarded, which in the past they have never and never been. Speaking of manoeuvring personnel you left behind in this area. For a period of two years, this government has provided additional employment resources precisely for the purpose of burdening already overworked staff in social institutions. Thus, 649 additional staff were employed under this heading in January 2021, during the period from 22. 8. to 31. 1. 2021 There were 113 participants per month on average in public works programmes, 15 000 237 working hours on temporary and temporary work, and 252 000 working hours were carried out by students and students, which means that the government has felt this burnout, this tendency towards additional staff that has not been made in the past. They haven't been heard, but this government has purposed to do so. Now I appeal to the Minister as a positive gesture that – and this is what I get from the field – this number is also in the future, because when they get this help, they are actually working harder and easier. So if possible, those working in the homes would be delighted to see that these numbers are preserved after two years. With regard to the Ministry's dialogue with the other stakeholders at the time of the epidemic, I would also like to say that the Ministry has established a very good network of regional coordinators who have taken care that communication has actually taken place through the regional coordinators and education, and they have had immediate contact with the Ministry and have also connected their homes. It was true that much depended on the regional coordinator, how much he was involved, but I tell you that the regional coordinators, at least in Goriška, worked very well and reacted quickly when there was an infection in the homes of older citizens. Then I might also mention several times the exposure – I will not focus on Osilnica, but I will focus on the home of the pensioners or the building of the future home in Vrtojba. This story has had a beard for a long time, and I don't know how you can tell now that this government is solving this problem and you're reading that it's going to give it to the concessionaire. The whole time there was a dialogue between the initiative, which fought to revive this building so that it would not be abandoned, as it has been all these years, in constant contact with the SD quota Member and nothing has happened. They were just on the phone. Who had this fig in his pocket, I don’t know or care, I’m interested in what immediately led people to turn to me — whether this government will really approach the solution to this long - term problem. And the government has approached. Before she has decided and made a decision on the concession, believe that she has also spoken to the homes. We have two homes near Nova Gorica, one right in Nova Gorica, one just outside of Nova Gorica, and she wondered what the situation was. If this pensioner's home in Wroteba were to be hung on the back of the pensioner's home in Novi Gorica, this home would actually sink. Because they themselves have said that it is difficult to get personnel for care already in an existing home, not to actually set up a set of human resources structures for another home. So this decision was valid and everyone, both the inhabitants of the Municipality of Nova Gorica and the Municipality of Šempeter - Vrtojba, as well as the mayors, welcomes this decision because they know that home will get life, that something will really happen there. I went to see this house myself, and home was falling apart all these years. This is no longer the same building as it was years ago when they left it, but additional funds have to be invested in this building. Moreover, it is also – I will not explain everything to you now, but in fact it is not yet fully qualified for the standards for setting up an elderly citizen's home, because there is still a lot to be done in order to accommodate the caregivers there. So don’t just say it on the first ball so that it can be given to public institutions, but it could — it doesn’t work that way. It is necessary to look from a financial point of view, from a human resources perspective and also at how spatially it is regulated. Until the DUB closed this place down, the homeless were inside. That's it. I am pleased, however, that both the home of older citizens in Vrtojba and the home of older citizens in Gradište have both applied for additional funds, namely the Garden is for day centres and Gradište is for the daily centre and for energy renewal. I have to say that this is a huge contribution, because both homes have been stagnant for years and have been asking for funds that they have unfortunately not received. This shows that this government is actually investing in investments that have not been made in the past but have only been promised. For we see, even if only 8 million have been earmarked in the last five years, we ourselves know what we can do with 8 million. To conclude, it is only possible to mention the public call for assistance for vulnerable groups due to the covida-19 epidemic and the Honesty Institute. Since the minister has a family, it has been told so many times how numerous his family is, but I will focus more on the fact that he was also a volunteer, he has worked voluntarily as a young man in a scout organization, where I have worked alone, and when a man works voluntarily in one such large organization and devotes enormous hours to volunteering, he can appreciate and know what it means when someone is in distress. For the scouts spend most of their time helping people in distress. That he actually drew on the funds just because he was involved in the process, of course, they were lies. I can't understand that you haven't even been able to wait enough for the KPK to give its report and say whether that's a fact that you're saying holds or doesn't hold. No, you had to discuss this today, even though there was already a debate on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ms Korča, the proposer, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u126	Very briefly. Only because the colleague said that the victim of the co-vid was wrongly counted, so that these numbers were somehow incomparable because they were counted differently across countries. There is one thing called excessive mortality. But there can't be any different number here, but it's a percentage of how much more or what the excess number of deaths was compared to the average number of people who died in the previous years in the same period. And that's a clear, comparable data. And you can tell me which country you want us to take for comparison, but in Slovenia there are 18.1%, we speak for 2020 of course, but then we have lower Belgium, England, Serbia, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden, Germany, say 5.3%. And that's comparable data. I understand that the remaining numbers, I have also reviewed a few statistics myself, have been recorded differently, but excessive mortality is a clear data and a very comparable data. For senior citizens' homes, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has prepared statistics, and I will send them to you by e-mail tomorrow, a colleague to see, also very comparable data that does not lie. However, it is necessary to be precise and not to make excuses for this if the countries have been recorded differently and cannot be compared. Excess mortality can undoubtedly be verified or compared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Usai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u128	Here you go again in your way of explaining yourself, but I want to tell you that you obviously haven't even talked about what moving means. You think there'd be fewer deaths if we moved older citizens from home to some other place. You have offered several different rooms, ranging from mobile accommodation units to hospital and other options. Older citizens don't just move around. Older citizens have latrines, they're intubated, they have dementia. It's not like he's gonna take them and carry them around like someone else, a healthy person. That's why they don't have that number.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Korce, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u130	I'm also going to give you an expert opinion on this because you know, the caterers have moved up and down, I'm, right there in the homes, from red to gray, and so on. These were home moves, and it was also a problem that the infection spread uncontrollably. It's not like it's my guess or my fill-up. I'm going to send you letters tomorrow and maybe even another interpolation because you obviously haven't read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next debater is Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u132	Good evening, nighttime listeners! I agree with my colleague from the SDS that all past governments are responsible for the situation we have. I would say to myself that the most pronounced government in the time of fat cows, as it is called in human language, did not do what could be done. The expressive time of the fat cows was the time of the first Janša government and the time of the Cerara government, there from 2015 to 2018. Janša's government and I got Szekelli, but Cerar's government and I got a system solution that hears the name of the overpaid second track model. If we move on, debirocracy. With the PKP, it has shifted. Eight PKPs are like eight Zujfs combined. Now you're saying that you're going to go through 20 more laws and you're predicting that you're just going to end 200 of them. I don't know, it's like that, in the end we're going to get a motorbike in the start, and now you're not going to be able to use that for a coffee mill. DUTB has moved the homeless somewhere, we have the Ministry of Equal Opportunities – I want an answer where these homeless people are now from your constituency, colleague. These were the opening remarks. I will end the introductory remarks by destroying Slovenia's excessive stupidity, in particular the excessive stupidity of politics, which is spread across political space. I had seven points to say. The first is that the world didn't start with us and it won't end with us. From that government of Cerar, and from that part of Sharchev, and you always have this story, some ministers come: “We are now, and we are, and we” As if the counting started, I don’t know, on March 13th, as if there was nothing before, when there will be no us and there will be nothing. [[…]] Let's go under a cold shower and get rid of this slowly. Perhaps everyone who was in these difficult situations wanted to do something good. Probably every government wants to make a difference. When a Member comes to me, our government will improve this – yes, a baptized mother, because we probably don't have a government to make this worse. Paret's optimism, the basis of sociology. I listened to this for almost 13 hours and for 15 minutes, the second point: “We Christians do not lie in principle.” I don't think I'm a Catholic myself, I'm not a member of the RCC, but you don't want to, and Miha Kordish is a Christian, because we live in a society that is very marinated by Christian civilization. If we had 74 million dollars for research, my love, I'd be pregnant, not just to get the DSOs fixed! Someone is a fat liar and has no idea about the state of the research sphere in Slovenia. And we'd be in charge of gerontechnology. Next. But you know, I'm getting these stories about some ratings, too, no. Some minister's gone. What? - when he took the kid, who went to music school. I mean, we should talk about this once, and we should stop talking about it -- I'll say, because I have a language at the end -- to fuck around. We're gonna watch the next term, and I don't know what tower the minister's signing up with, and who's given so much who's given so much. Will the Minister sign the decisions with the one? Or how? I mean, wake up! Now, what exactly are we talking about here? We're not talking here some left, right, we, you, partisans, patriots, up, down, we're talking about controlling or not managing some stuff. This government, when it's over, already has the title of the book All Our affaires. It's the title of this government's book. Sorry. First you take pictures there, Tonin says yourself, in 15 minutes you destroy the masks that bloodthirsty health needs then, on the evening of March 13, then there's a truck that isn't. And I don't want to make fun of it because it was such a time, but the problem was that someone already wanted to take a picture. Then there's the mask affair, then the golf pass, something useless somewhere, then these pubs come in, they stick to the plane stickers, then in between the quick tests just in some basements, now something new comes up again. Probably now that we have to have an Ausweis, a passport for vaccination, some little cousin is going to be programming something again, and I'm already afraid it's going to work. Why is this happening? I wrote here: feudalism. Because this team, let's say, one member of the NSI tells us very nicely what his name is on A, but it doesn't say Montenegro, because you think of Slovenia as February. It is now February, it is known who is the hat feudalist, who are the little feudalists – strike for joy, now we are at the trough! And, of course, if we have a government where the President of the Government is cornered by himself, even when he's sleeping, if you don't even hope to tell him anything, if he's going through it all. You can't piss off countries in some uncriminal situations, except in some of the situations we have. Don't brag, we've kept so many jobs, so many we haven't, the living God doesn't know what's gonna happen. We've got Ormož, we've got Koroška now, we're going to have some unemployment, we're going to have a headache. And we should talk about the NGO, and how we should think about this story within it. Very soon, too, it will have to be over with these poofs, and perhaps I will be the only Member who will start chanting what my grandson's great-granddaughters will pay a hundred and forty-year-old bond of Slovenia, but you will be boasting, yes, because now it's ratings, great, interest is negative, great, worried about joy. So I'm looking at a former 90-seat MP who's been hanging around there, yeah, golden fiscal rule, fat ass. He forgot, Comrade Prekmurec, that story. I would like to talk to you about the autonomy of the age that you should write in NOO, because each of us is serious about having some kind of communication with Brussels and they say, what are you writing, what are you doing? All governments are responsible that we have a real state, because we don't have a DSO, these are nursing hospitals without a nursing staff, 75 percent of the people there are basically some kind of care and hospital care that you basically don't have and how to actually deal with it. The vast majority of these homes, except for a few newer ones, are no longer spatially suitable, are more suitable, but I don't know what kind of dormitory we should build somewhere else. I would like to talk about what trends are; pavilion building of smaller homes, 50, 60 providers and so on. Even in the light of some of the money we have, I'm afraid it's gonna blow. But of course, you need an opinion for that, so you need some basic respect. If I have learned anything in these six and a half years in politics, I have learned that we are very short of some training and training for the most demanding functions. We've missed him before. It's just that this government is a team that's all made up of some kind of obedience. Personally, I think that John here is more of a victim of this feudalism than himself a bad man than someone wanted to show him here in person. It's usually about Janez Janša, and then there's some kind of philosophy about some of the scribblings of the SMC and Desus. If anyone needs to be pointed at in this government, it is NSI, which is also least pleased, frankly, to go to this government and also cost-benefit will hit him most negatively in this regard. We had some first phase of losing covid in three DSOs, if I look at the comparison only with Austria's Styria, much better with us than with them, but in the meantime we did not do what they did. Why are the quick dedicated tests, the division of DSOs into thirds, looking for where some backup team is, the protection of employees and so on. There's no hot water to detect. I'm not going to go into any debate, so if I have time or an extraordinary session, we can do a method of measuring covid. Either way, things got out of hand. And we know who the government was and who the government is now. There's probably no one left between us to have any acquaintances who died because of a co-vide. My father almost died because of a co-vide, and I thank the General Hospital Novo Mesto for his self-sacrificing work. Let's stop bluffing. The problem with this government is that you are not capable of dealing with what you are shouting, especially in the SDS when you are in opposition, even when you are in the government. That's what my darling would say, what you're putting in the woods, what you get out of the woods, and as a result we have what we have. I don't know, it's more important to the Prime Minister to fight with a fellow Servant than to order a vaccine for a quarter of a million people that day. We're here, and after we tell you that, we're ugly. If this were the reverse situation, I would say to my colleagues, but of course the roof would be raised by the Parliament, probably also by the RTV roof, if Mrs Rosavita had the show. And this is some state that we actually have that we actually live. Yes, I'm for dialogue, I agree with Tonin, I'm for dialogue. But the dialogue must begin first, whether we are even able to listen. The basis of dialogue must be in these times of crisis to remove people who for such or other reasons do not control what they should be in the situations they are in. Including the Prime Minister of the Government, who should be on treatment, separating from Twitter. Good night, Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, just a little observation, I believe that we have different styles of debate, some are more abstract than others, but let us go back to the topic of interpretation, and perhaps the debate will be a little more constructive. The next debater is mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, Mr. Secretary! Today's interpolation raises an important issue, trying to demonstrate the responsibility of the current minister in this department through a narrow critical view of almost three decades of passivity of less than or more of all governments in the field of caring for the elderly. In the search for their piece of bread, the concessors, together with public institutions, designed the infrastructure of institutional care for the elderly as it is; today it is better for us than for the south of us and worse for the north of us. Minister Janez Cigler King has set up mechanisms to facilitate the provision of care and care for the elderly in the future, either in the area of reducing the autonomy of the elderly, in the care of the sick, or in the problem of dementia. In its mandate, a project was launched to build day centres and temporary accommodation units. The epidemic was raging among the elderly. How different it could have been under the tactics of another minister is a question that we do not have an exact answer to today, so political belonging is a factor in determining whether the Bricker King had the opportunity to make the epidemic worse, should he be responsible for all that the interpolation is obvious to him, or should any other minister with the magic wand of another color be able to unleash the virus away from home for the elderly. The opposition and the coalition are on the trench this time. Every oath on your rider, even though you ride on the same horse. The problem lies not in the struggle of the most vulnerable with the disease, but after years of neglect of integrated care in nursing homes and in the fact that long-term care is the desired goal, which we have not yet touched and will not be achieved as a society. The Minister, as one party to the social dialogue, cannot be the sole culprit for not having this dialogue; it requires two or three or more. The assessment is that the Minister has responded with a number of measures in such a turbulent situation. That would be inappropriate just to punch him in the face. He has made a remarkable effort, along with other ministries, to maintain employment and to help the weakest in our society. Without it, an epidemic tsunami would have killed them. In the circumstances required, he was at the head of the department, which is the courage and expression of the will to fight. For a man who had not had much similar experience before, it can be said that Minister Cigler the King has chosen an effective team and that the department is doing the right thing. Measures such as subsidisation of waiting for work and subsidisation of reduced working time have successfully saved around 300,000 jobs. Nearly half a billion euros were paid for this and for quarantine due to force majeure. Family policy was allocated €600 million during the epidemic in 2020. The aquarium of today's interpolation, where, let's admit that after these 14 hours, it is quite watery, spills its colors on all sides, but it seems to me that it is not possible to challenge it and that this is clearly illustrated that the work of the Minister of Labour is legal and transparent. I'm not allowed and I'm not interested in the ideological mile from which the minister comes; but as a minister, I don't have any problems. So I don't care what his intimate views of philosophy, religion, social norms and dogmatics are, because from the day he swore and signed his vow to work for the well-being of Slovenia, these questions were pushed into one place when John was in his shoes and sweatshirts, on his bike, on his prayer, in his bed, not least – and I will say to John, because John is at home – and there he thinks his own, just like all of us. But when he is in the cabinet and on the ground, he is the minister of all of us, and at least so far he has shown that what we have divergent opinions, as a minister, does not touch, potential or favor. We are a plural society, and this time a combination is drawn from the election drum, which cannot be all the time. Yes, he was the founder of a institution with which, as far as I'm concerned, I do not share the same value, but I accept that there are people who, in what does not represent to me a sublimate of life truth, who see the answer, the meaning, the way and the goal honestly. And the first information that the Ministry made available to them, i.e. once its 100 and several thousand euros, raised doubts in me if everything was transparent. However, the explanations provided by the Ministry and other sources, including journalists, show that integrity has also been preserved in this case, that there has been no corruption or conflict of interest. To be honest with you, I think it would be the most sincere thing to do to help the minister if he somehow gave up that money for the minister. But he, you minister, you don't have to make that decision anymore. Finally, I can say that, as Minister, he answered a few of my questions and initiatives quickly, he took action, he focused on the relevant members of his team, and it is a signal to me that is not to be overlooked. He's trying. That's why I don't think the King is worthy of a trophy for today's interpeel shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija is next, Mr Mikhael Prevc is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u136	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I would like to make one point clear because whenever you come from this government side to this national assembly, you always say in style that this government has given money to people or that this government has given this to people. But see, this budget money is the money of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and in fact you do not give it as a government. You only arrange finances or then decide on these and various financial injections or cartridges. As far as interpolation is concerned, I will also be perfectly honest with you as a Christian when you mentioned it earlier. Because of the dignity of the human being, if what happened to me in Slovenia had happened to us, that we had experienced so many deaths after the DSOs and, in general, about the coronavirus, I would have given up this dignity. In fact, you should step down as a minister and the President of the Government should step down or the whole government should step down because of these ethical, moral standards in society; it is said that you show dignity and respect for life and for human beings. The next thing that was not mentioned or discussed in today’s interpretation was too little. I mean young unemployed people here. Look, I come from the eastern part of Slovenia, where we have a very big problem with unemployment, even in this group from 15 to 30 years old. As you know, it just happened a few days ago, or I think a week ago, Safila, a factory in Ormož, predicted closure or about 550 people and more would land on the road. And then yesterday we find out about Slovenj Gradec, as I know about the Adient factory or the company. I know, and I have also kept this in mind in the National Assembly that Eastern Slovenia has always been, or this region of Podravja, and in fact the Lower Podravje region has always been a target of these social bombs and we are looking forward to a new social bomb by closing this factory in Ormož. I would expect you to take a more intensive part in these options of action or how you will then solve these things, because, in fact, if this happens again in our region or in our region, then you are not surprised that the entire Eastern Slovenia with Prekmurje will literally move to Austria or Hungary – however, it is said in these border states. Here, I will tell you, I do not resent, but I miss your strategies in the sense of these border regions, how you will resolve to keep as many young, highly educated and also generally employed as possible, so that they can work and create here in Slovenia or even in these border regions. In order not to have to, as I do on a daily basis, we actually have the entire migration of day-to-day labour migrants who migrate from eastern Slovenia to Ljubljana and then back. Previously, you've had a lot on your portal or on this government side or on the side of the ministry, and I have to admit that I really don't know if they belong on this official side of the ministry: no, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't. I think it is right when we talk about these government or ministerial parties, even when they are Twitter pages, whether they are Facebook pages, or whether they are official URL pages, that things really are being checked and that they are not being published directly on the nose, because then it really works like sometimes Mr. Janez Janša works – too fast fingers, I will say. And I have personally observed lately, by coming from the government side or from the ministries, that you have somehow adopted this typical communication, which we have also experienced in the interpretation of Mrs Simone Kustec's Minister of Education. I must admit that I did not expect this from you, Mr. Janez Brickler King, of this communication, because I was not used to it here in the National Assembly of such communication. You have usually acted very eloquently, also – which I personally liked – and here you would expect from all the ministers you are in this government Janez Janša to show more of your or more of the struggle for the profession, more of the struggle for that part of that piece you are making up in this government. Unfortunately, as far as professional matters are concerned, this government simply takes too many decisions on a political basis and very little on an expert basis. I'm afraid, but as has already been said, a lot of the things that have happened in this epidemic have happened because the profession has not been followed because the profession has not been respected either. Perhaps — and I hope — that many victims could be prevented. I wish there weren't any more victims about covido, that would be great. In order to arrange these vaccines as soon as possible, because I think that this is also one of the black spots of this government's black pages with regard to this acquisition of vaccines that are now coming out, and I hope that these things will be settled as soon as possible. In the end, I will also return to yours once again, as far as I know, even a very good friend or a great help to her, you were her professional supporter, to Mr Ludmilo Novak. In fact, she said exactly what is the real problem of this government, Janez Janša, that the real problem of this government, Janez Janša, or all the governments of Janez Janša, is always only one and the only matter is that it decides everything. We also experience this here in the National Assembly, not only to get a feeling, but to see who is making moves or directing the flow of ministries or ministerial decisions. As citizens, we deserve, but we also ask you as a minister, as well as other citizens and citizens who tell me a lot of things and tell me that you are the counterweight in this government against Janez Janša, or that you can warn him that you hope to warn him and that you must warn him too, because otherwise I do not know how this matter would go through. As I say, I will vote in favour of your interpretation. But I'm going to say that in the end, when you're speaking as a Christian, in the end, you're going to be facing your boss of all the bosses, but I'm not thinking of Janez Jansha, but you know exactly who I'm talking about, about God. And you will answer him for what you have done right and what you have done wrong. I hope you will do as many things as possible right and good and as little wrong as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next, and Mr Jure Ferjan is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! One of the main points of view to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of John the Bricker King in Interpellation is the ineffective action in curbing the spread of coronavirus in nursing homes. I cannot agree with the findings of the interpellation candidates. Indeed, ensuring adequate care for the elderly is one of the most important priorities set by the Minister at the time of his appointment. Let me remind you that when he was presented on the home committee as a candidate for Minister, he highlighted the very ageing of the population as one of the main problems we face in Slovenia. There he stressed that one of the key solutions to this problem is to increase spatial and human resources capacities in the homes of older citizens. When Minister Janez Cigler King began serving as Minister on 13 March 2020, he had to face severe spatial pressures and undernutrition at the home of elderly citizens, who have been giving too little attention for more than 20 years. As we have heard today, it was the last home for the elderly back in 2005. The covida-19 epidemic has finally exposed all the consequences of this stepmotherly relationship of past governments to the care of the elderly, with an emphasis on institutional protection. As a result, homes are obsolete, obsolete and no longer meet the standards of institutional protection and accommodation of the elderly for a long time. Due to totally inadequate spatial conditions, there have been major problems in preventing the spread of covido-19 infection. A particularly major problem was the so-called substandard rooms with multiple residents, where isolation was not possible. In addition, in the first wave of the epidemic, homes were faced with an extreme shortage of protective equipment to work in risky situations, resulting from poor preparation and response to the coming health crisis by the previous government. Thus, on the one hand, the minister had to solve the spatial and human hardships of the home for the elderly and their problems with the lack of protective equipment, while on the other hand there was a severe fight against the covida-19 virus. He was not afraid of the challenge, but he immediately took a firm stand for work. He took over the role of the so-called crisis coordinator and ensured with his colleagues that the homes had at least the most necessary protective equipment for a few days ahead. The Minister has also been actively involved in the preparation and supervision of anti-Korona measures, together with a team of two State secretaries and co-workers at the Ministry since the first day of his term of office. As a result of his efforts and priority treatment of care for the elderly, the measures in the eight intervention laws to control the epidemic and its consequences are thus measures. Thus, more than €56 million was jointly provided for institutional protection by the CAP measures in 2020 and 2021. In addition, the minister has been in constant contact with the authorities and guards at home for the elderly and has also visited many homes. On the first day of his mandate, he established regular contacts with home directors and, on the basis of the daily reports of the National Institute of Public Health and other institutions, introduced regular weekly videoconferences with heads of home and welfare institutions. It saddens me, honourable interpellationers, that before filing you have not been better acquainted with the activities and superhuman efforts of the Minister with all the responsibilities of the co-workers to combat the spread of the epidemic in the most vulnerable groups, this is in the homes for the elderly. But it seems to me that you're even trying to frame the minister for a great deal of mortality in nursing homes. Unfortunately, covid-19 took a lot of lives, too many lives. Unfortunately, medicine is also very weak in this disease, and it has proved to be the most vulnerable group in the home of older citizens in the epidemic, which is why the proportion of deaths in these homes, unfortunately, is particularly high. I am sure that the doctors, the medical profession in the homes, have done everything they can to ensure that all the guards at home, who, due to covid-19, had serious health problems, were transported to hospitals on time and received adequate medical care. Let me point out that who needs hospital treatment is not decided by the minister, but by the medical profession, says doctors. Thank God, the latest data show, however, that due to the rapid testing and priority vaccination of security guards and employees in the homes of the epidemic has finally begun to calm down. Respectable interpellationers, your allegations of the poor and irresponsible work of Minister John Cigler King, particularly in the field of institutional protection of the elderly, I find this interpretation extremely unfair, unargued, untrue and even offensive, so I will not support this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jure Ferrjan is next, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u140	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! And of course, welcome to all those who insist and follow this marathon session. Much has already been said today, but in my debate in this introductory part I will focus on the data, on the facts, on the achievements achieved by the current government and the current minister you are interpreting today. I will also continue to respond to the unspecified words that have been spoken all day today and have, of course, been misleading in one way or another. Let's start with the facts. What I am going to say is the data collected by 25 February of this year. The measures taken by this government and, of course, by the competent minister, I am aiming primarily at subsidising the waiting period from home and subsidising the reduced working time, which has saved about 300,000 jobs. In particular, if we go even further, 415 million euro has been allocated for the waiting period, more than 210 000 people have been involved and more than 30,000 business entities have been involved. Then, in the area of quarantine or force majeure, €16 million was allocated, more than €25 000 700 of persons were involved or more than 7,000 200 business entities, and in the area of reduced working time €35 million, more than €41 000 400 or more than 7,000 700 business entities. It must also be pointed out here that almost 470 million euros have been earmarked for pension and disability insurance with temporary cash benefits. Of course, all these measures, which have kept jobs, have had a direct impact on the reduction in the spread of coronavirus in the working environment. Since this government, this minister, has managed to maintain so many jobs, of course this is also reflected in international statistics, we have one of the lower unemployment rates in Europe or on average and one of the better results, we could say, in the European Union. Here, I will also highlight the concern for family policy, which is one of the top priorities of this government, which was allocated around €600 million for this area in 2020. Respected and respected, this government takes measures for all, not for elites, but for all. I will continue with the solidarity supplements that have been received by those who have also needed them most, which have been received by the most vulnerable in our society. I'll start with the pensioners, the ones with the lowest pensions. These received two solidarity supplements totalling 260, 460 and 600 euros respectively. In total, this represents 134 million euros, which has received more than 300,000 pensioners, the lowest pensioners. Then nearly 50,000 recipients of cash social assistance and a security allowance received a solidarity allowance of 150 euros, slightly over 29 000 large families received a higher allowance for a large family, 100 and 200 euros in both waves of the epidemic. 222,000 people from the most vulnerable low-income groups also received a solidarity allowance of 150 euros and more than 191 000 parents received a higher child supplement of 30 euros in the first wave of the epidemic. It is also necessary to point out that funds have been provided for employees, i.e. those who worked and have the lowest wages at the time of the epidemic, to receive these supplements, to be provided, and as a financial result, a total of €80 million is estimated for this. Another important measure from the point of view of family policy is to raise, we can say, the one-off amount at the birth of a child, 500 euros from 1 January 2020 onward, and will continue until after the outbreak has been abolished for a year. There was also an increase in child care allowances during the epidemic and the beneficiaries of the disability benefit were not forgotten. In short, the measures have helped and helped people who have been in a number of distresses, and I am sure that these concrete measures, which I have just mentioned, have alleviated a number of hardships and have, of course, prevented them. Therefore, I cannot go beyond what has been exposed in the past hours by Alenka Bratušek to the fact that the measures that this government and this minister represent and implement, as they say, are the worst results. I would expect them to say what they did when they were in power, and to ask themselves whether the epidemics were constructive or destructive during all this time. Let this question remain rhetorical, but I think that all those who accompany us today, especially us who sit in this Chamber, know the answer well. Respected and respected, an extremely important theme is also what our future will be. Of course, we can all wish that we would have this honor to grow old one day, and we all deserve that our age will be safe and secure and beautiful and peaceful. This government, this minister, of course, also has very clear priorities in the area of long-term care. Respected and respected, you in the left opposition, who have been in power most of the time from 2009 to 2019, have provided exactly 348 additional beds. This government, this minister, which you have been interpolating for 14 hours now, has provided 40 new units, 218 places for daily protection, 178 places for temporary accommodation and a thousand 285 new beds already on the basis of the concessions. So, a thousand 285 new beds, you in the decade 348. Here on this map you can see where all these new units will come from. I will also show this graph, which speaks of investment funds, is very clear. See how low columns, how low amounts practically after all these years – in 2020 jump up. In doing so, I should also say that €73 million is being provided to adapt the spatial and technical conditions in the homes. The epidemic has shown that certain homes for the elderly are in such a state that they need a comprehensive reconstruction and the government, the ministry will approach it. Another interesting information and another comparison. Look, in the last five years, 8.4 million euros have been earmarked for investment in older people's homes within the budget. Now, in 2021 and 2022, a total of EUR 30 million will be allocated. So on the one hand, in five years, €8.4 million and now, in two years, €30 million. So much so that you'll know when some people talk about actions and some people work. And as an interesting thing, the last home for older citizens from the budget was built in 2005, home of older citizens of Fužina. Maybe before I go any further. Today there was also a talk on social dialogue. I would expect those who report to the Minister and to this Government that they do not carry out social dialogue, that they have some brilliant results, but when we look at statistics, we see that the current government and the current minister are engaged in a deeper and more numerous social dialogue than you are, so that your findings are a little bit unusual. I will touch on some of the statements that we have heard today, as I have promised in the beginning. Also, as far as I have said last, I find it difficult to agree to what we have heard from the Social Democrats, that there must not be an excuse for the current minister in the light of the state of management, or the state as it was, the ministry, what it was, the resort and so on. When I put myself in another role, not from the point of view of the minister, but, let's say, those who said those words, of course, if you've been on this department for a decade, and if things don't count, you probably don't want people to interpret it as if you didn't know how to sort things out. I also understand that you're in trouble. First you lost power, now it is also a problem, for example, that the Minister appoints his representatives to the Economic and Social Council, because obviously there should be representatives of the past governments – or how? I understand, you've lost power, you're losing positions now, you're losing privileges and so on, you're in trouble, but you'll probably get used to it. Today we have also heard from you something like that, I don't know if I would call it sharing political advice on what to do in a particular client. Now I don't know if you had an internal survey or an analysis of the Slovenian political space, especially the advice you gave to coalition parties. I will not give you any advice, but I hear from a number of people who have elected you in the past, I aim here at the Social Democrats, so that you are almost no longer separated from the Left, so that they may devote themselves more to their party and not to others. We have heard from the LMŠ today so well that we no longer have a home for the elderly. That's a very worrying sentence. I think it even happened again later. I'm really worried about that, because the last minister was from the Marjan Sarca List. Maybe she was from the Party of Marjan Sarca? [[…]] Well, whatever. What happened today was that there was still good [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u141	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u142	Now, apparently, one small lapsus has happened, and that's fine. [[…]] It is good that she was not from the List of Marjan Šarc, because today her colleague Jerca Korča made it clear that we obviously have too much home in Slovenia for the elderly. Tell that to those 10,000 who have been waiting years and years to come to a home for older citizens who need institutional protection in distress are also their relatives. Tell them! I said before, 2005 was the last home for older citizens, a thousand 285 cities will be provided by this government, you are only 349, if I am not mistaken, under 350 in short. Speaking of colleagues from the List of Marjan Šarc – no offense. I also wanted to point this out earlier in the procedural proposal, but I decided that, given that it was so repeated then, I would only touch myself in the debate. Personally, it seems very unfair to me that the minister, who is most of today’s interpretation, can be said that if, as a percentage of 90 percent of the time is definitely in the hall and is accompanying this debate, he also answers the questions that are obvious to him when he leaves the hall for 10, 15 minutes – he probably goes to drink a glass of water, what to eat – and to make it clear to him that it is an empty chair and so on. That's incorrect. It's unfair, and it's not fair to the minister, and it's not ultimately fair to the viewers and the viewers. Today we also heard a lot about duality, and it was those who today spoke of duality who had overlooked many of the dualities in front of their colleagues. But on the one hand, I understand when there are no arguments, or when there are no arguments, you use such low, even incorrect actions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with a conclusion that will not be new now, we have just stepped into a new day, two minutes past midnight, that there was a debate today and yesterday, as someone has said many times today, a waste of time. I'll say, maybe it is, maybe it isn't. I think or I can agree at the point that there will be no direct effects of today's debate, but there will be indirect effects. For those who have followed this interpretation for at least an hour or two, the one who has been or is inclined to the left opposition, the motioners, I am confident that today will only further question your arguments, your policy and so on. On the contrary, the one who is a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is a supporter of the positions, values, principles of the government coalition, has today received new confirmation that this government is doing well and that the current minister is, of course, representing those who need the help of this ministry, and that reconfirming, in particular, the numbers that the government has dedicated money to people, that the government has committed itself to the weakest: pensioners, young people, families, students and so on. So this government has taken measures for everyone; not for the elites, but for everyone. This probably left you in the opposition that when you were in power, you weren't able to do it or you didn't want to do it. Today's interpolation or yesterday's interpolation, anyway, I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for I will be very brief. I'm afraid Comrade Ferrian hasn't understood us all day. Indeed, the Social Democrats are not in any way in distress because they would lose power and similar deceptions, but today we are in distress because we have been asking the Minister to plead and tell us whether they are holding back the deceptions and lies that 74 million euros have been spent on studies, when he knows very well that this is not the case, and that he has previously referred to only some of the facts in the Court of Auditors' audit, but he has not said that it was actually 70,000 euros for studies and that all the remaining resources are really those that will be used up to 2022 and for which he has boasted today that he will carry them out under his leadership. And that's what's gonna get us into trouble to lie to him, to fool him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Replica, Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to replicate my colleague Ferjan. First you say some things that aren't dark today, but good. Where did you make the lapsus, and I'll tell you. You're talking about a minister who came from a SMC party, which is from your coalition partner, who was the former Minister of Labour. And anything can you, mate, please? [[…]] We certainly didn't understand each other when I was talking about responsibility and the reality of the situation. You said before, we saved 300,000 jobs. Look, that's not true. These jobs are currently in a coma and, as long as the waiting period takes place, they stand. Once this measure is released, you'll have 10,000 unemployed. This is already happening today in Safil, 557 cancellations have been announced, and in Adient, 430 cancellations have been announced, even though you co-financed them waiting for work and received money from the country. So I don't think they're kept jobs. As far as the warning is concerned, the warnings were heard more than apparently. We've suggested a lot of good things. And you know, it's not a guess, and it's not an attack, my respectable colleague. Rejecting everything on your part, no matter what's proposed, is intentional ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Jože Lenart has the word, and Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. Honourable Minister Janez Cigler King, also a compatriot of Korošec! In spite of everything, we must look into our eyes today and find out, or I will tell you my opinion, what you have done wrong in your ministry, what you have not done, and what may have done well in your area, which of course you are covering. My predecessors have already outlined the reasons or impressions of the interpretation and all the mistakes you made during your ministry, what you didn't do, you should have done. It's bad if you make a decision that might not be the best or even the wrong one. It's terrible, but it's very bad if you don't make a decision at all. And that, Your Honor Minister, you have done and you have constantly started this year of the Ministry. Why — because this is the easiest thing to do, it is most comfortable to stay in your bubble of unusual, unfavorable work or wrongdoing, negligence, abandonment of duty. Yes, see, that's how we feel, no matter what you've done or not done, because someone else has dictated this to you, a government group for an epidemic, or for this called regional coordination groups, made up of doctors, who have already been running around your homes for the elderly in your knowledge or without your knowledge. On what I just said, I'd like your clear answer. In his reply, why is it that at the end of the day there is a very sensitive area, the elderly or the relatives. But I also speak from my own experience because I also had a relative, or luckily, in my nursing home. That is to say, this answer, whether these groups were working in their homes — what they were doing — in your knowledge or without your knowledge. This is also very important for this responsibility. Regardless of the debates of some Members, coalitions, especially today, which have spoken a lot, you have also talked about what has not been done in recent decades. Not to mention populism talk that has nothing to do with today's interpolation. I would like to draw attention to the following: see, the World Health Organization, which was mainly responsible for the fire in Kemis in Slovenia in 2017, has submitted a report on good assessments of the safety plan in the event of emergency, based also on public health, which includes homes for the elderly. However, the average estimate was issued mainly for a poorly developed information system and, above all, for the poor integration of resources. These two are cancer wounds in Slovenia in all areas, that is a fact. She, of course, made recommendations on how to address areas with poor evaluation. With this report, I think you've met. Today, I note that the government of Janez Janša has acted in exactly the opposite of these recommendations of the World Health Organisation during this year of action and action during the epidemic. I'm not going to talk about it today, but we're going to have to talk about it more. I think there's going to be some kind of word at tomorrow's health session on this subject. Dear Minister, of course, the protection of the elderly is among your areas. During the Coronavirus epidemic, when it turned out that the older one of the most vulnerable groups, when the whole world warned that the coven was the most dangerous or deadly one for the elderly when the virus entered the homes for older citizens, it was your particularly important task to fulfil this mission, the protection of the elderly, and you did not do so as you should. In the first wave, as you like to expose yourself, the virus penetrated about a tenth of the home, and 90 percent carried them away without infection. I'm talking about the first wave. Of course, this is a fact because you have received closed homes in pre-departure since March 6th. The house in Izola was closed by the end of February. So you've got a practical home with measures taken. There's something I'd like to tell you. Now my colleague Horvath is not here; I think the two are not back at the meeting very clearly said who today can know what will bring the third wave if it does. How to act, for today we do not know which one of us can say how and what to do. He made it very clear that you couldn't act in the second wave either, and that is why the situation is so far out of hand. That's what led me to this, and I'm saying this on purpose now, because that's how he stressed it. And as I said before, in the first wave, the government, the 13th government of Marjan Šarc, took those measures; but then we knew much less what was ahead of us and what was coming. Look, at the time, almost 80 percent of all the deaths of the Coronavirus were actually residents of the home for the elderly. This is a eloquent statistic that may give you reason after the first wave, if not earlier, and yet you have not reached the adoption of any grounds for the protection of the elderly. You've allowed unequal treatment of the elderly compared to other residents. Here we were the worst, we know that we are leading in Europe when these comparisons were made, that there were the most dead in our homes for the elderly. Why didn't you move them to hospitals where there were empty beds with professional treatment? Perhaps because of the cost of care and treatment in the nursing home is minimal, while in the hospital there are 8,000 to 40,000 per patient, as are now known estimates. At the time, we didn't even know what they were like — we in the opposition, probably you in the coalition had this information. These mistakes of yours would still be somehow understandable if, in the summer months — let’s say, instead of encapsulating — based on the eloquent messages from the experience of the first wave, which we all understood, we prepared plans and concrete solutions to protect homes for the elderly in the event of another wave. And you prefer, I don't know, to sunbathe or react only with Flossules about how caring for older people is your priority. You spoke one thing, worked and performed sadly, as others had commanded you: a government group, a great leader. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have warned you, prepare for the second wave, do not leave home left to yourself. You have also been warned of this by many others. I think we've done this a number of times here today. Before summer, at the end of May, in response to the question of how you will protect your homes in the event of a second wave, you said that the obvious measures to prevent the spread of first wave infections were successful, but the protocols for a possible second wave, I quote, "are prepared as soon as possible. However, we want them to be professional, to be good, to be well supported by the experience of the pandemic of this time, and to be simple and useful, to be clear that teams at home for older and other forms of institutional protection can also be well prepared for a possible second wave." End of quote. Today it is clear that you have failed and completely failed. Well, that was suggested early in the fall, and then it confirmed everything more. Let me also remind you that somehow it's anchored in your subconscious. At the end of September, when the virus began to spread more intensively, you calmly said that the first wave measures were clear that there would be no new measures so far. Well, infections spread uncontrollably. They had an infection in 85% of their homes in November. Eighty-five percent! And what did you do? The better question is, what haven't you done? You did not allow the physical separation of sick residents from healthy people, you did not introduce employee testing in time, you did not take additional measures to avoid intrusion into nursing homes. And knowing how fast the virus spreads once it appears in a single home. Moreover, you were silently instructed by the then State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, after which asymptomatic infected workers were allowed to work in red zones at home. Do you even hear how wrong the last sentence sounds? “Infected employees can go to work in the epidemic.” You should respond to this, but you probably thought again, as well as in apologizing for other mistakes, because this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. No, I'm sorry, it was your responsibility. Yours, too. You won't convince us otherwise, and we won't forget it's your fault. Today you have pointed out that by taking over the government you have received homes that have extremely poor conditions for care, that they do not allow safe care, that they do not allow you to deal with separate departments, that there is a critical shortage of personnel – that is what I have in particular remembered, you have highlighted. And if you knew all this, why didn't you take action over the summer? You even said there was no need. The fact that homes are in bad shape is, in its own way, relative to comparing some developed countries, because our country has so much resources at its disposal because our GDP is the same as that of an employee, per capita, and we can afford so much. The second is how much more we could make out of some negligence. You know, that's exactly what we resent because you're saying something else today, and in the fall before the second wave, you were saying something completely different. And one more thing, with these criticisms of yours, how badly the homes were prepared for an epidemic, both infrastructural and organizational. Look, this is a huge insult to homes, employees in these homes, caregivers and relatives as well. I've been in contact with nursing homes all along. In the end, I was also preparing a business plan for the House of Elders in Farah in Prevalje, we both know him, I think it was 20 years ago, and I advocated him, interestingly, also at the Ministry of Finance before then State Secretary Milojka Kolar Celarc, when he was still in finance. I was present at the award of innovation awards awarded by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and several awards for innovative work in the homes were given to Koroška homes. Not to mention the public criticisms of directors at home at the time of the epidemic, how they took matters into their own hands, they acted and by a healthy farmer's mind, as they themselves have said, because they have come all the time from various ministries with very contradictory instructions and measures that have made a real mess in their homes. We also invited two directors to the National Assembly at one of the meetings, I think most of the parties were present at the time, and we had a very frank conversation with them. At the time, they did this, they did it by common sense, because indeed different measures came from one ministry and another, so that they practically did it in their own way that they could act. Look, two years ago, I was also present at the tenth anniversary at home in Slovenj Gradc, the unit of Montenegro. I was very proud back then. Also, all the employees, the caregivers, the family were very proud of this house, of their work, and therefore I am very surprised by this criticism of how everything went wrong with your takeover. That's why I'm saying that you're insulting, you're really insulting, even those who spoke so critically, all those employees and caregivers who are in these homes, because the situation wasn't so bad. Last week we were also able to follow the story of the House of Danica Vogrinec in Maribor. In one of the shows, your Secretary of State praised how the home had already received some more than €2 million by 10 March, including for supplements. It sounds very cool, but what if, of these two million euros, EUR 1.6 million is allocated for the recovery of funds for the first wave of the epidemic and for other refunds, for example, the reimbursement of costs due to unscathed beds capacity, protective equipment and so on, and not for accessories. That's the truth when we say something populist, and there's a completely different picture in the back. Compared to Austria, we know that in all areas of Austria these measures are implemented very quickly, week, two and this matter is resolved. It is here that their advantage is that they are very fast and we are missing everything in the whole area. And even in homes for the elderly, they are in a worse position than health - care workers, even though they miss out on the benefits or benefits they receive. And similarly, homes are still waiting to recover funds for renting red zones. It's unacceptable that you let them find themselves alone. They had to look for their own outer spaces. It wasn't until October that you passed the bill of reimbursement, and they're still waiting for this money in their homes. That's true, you'll answer. It's like we're waiting for your mercy, it turns out to be a mercy payoff. Yes, around the staff, the Minister-designate, of course, if today or tomorrow, not today, yes, survive the interpretation, I also have a question for you on Monday. Then we can talk about this further, because I think it's very important what I'm going to ask you about the personnel. Let me finish by saying something else about home. We know that there is a shortage of single beds in nursing homes in our country. We have been facing this problem for several years. In January 2021, there were 2,000 600 beds available in nursing homes. True, because of the ministry's instructions on the organisation of gray zones and the implementation of the crisis plan for the establishment of red zones, some beds were available. However, in the letter of Marjan Šarca, we sent a request to certain homes for access to public information about the number of empty beds in an individual home and asked them why the beds were empty. Unfortunately, we had to do this because practically this government is no longer able to believe and you need to see for yourself what is true. Do you know what the answer was? You probably know. Most of the empty beds are due to the deaths of the tenants. Death! That's why they're empty, which is also kind of logical if we're being honest. What I'm about to say is that I find it extremely difficult with my language, even because we're both Koreans, but a respected minister, it's not personal, but it flies on you like a minister. By your failure to act, you have emptied your beds in homes for older citizens. You've emptied over 2,000 of them. This is your responsibility, regardless of what others have dictated to you, what you will do, how you will do and what you will not do. I'm afraid you're going to have to live with this responsibility as a minister and unfortunately as a human being. How, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word, and after him he will get the word Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Initially, I cannot be surprised at the degree of some sublimeness, which is being promoted mainly by the Minister and also by the coalitions. We're going so far that a colleague from NSI said that because the minister has a large family, it qualifies him to be a minister for work, family and social affairs. It's like I'm saying because I want to go for a walk into the woods, and because I like to eat that I can be Minister for Agriculture, for Forestry and Food. But here is essentially what's missing, I mean this whole debate, because we're referring, and this is one of the main perceptions of interpretation, is that there's an elephant in the room, if I use this English idiom, to which, Minister, you still haven't responded. This is the problem of the second wave and the so-called missed summer. This is one of the key things that I think we should hear some specific answers about today, but there are none. Well, from coalitions, we hear how guilty all the previous governments are, except for this, are, in practice, for every affair we have. Purely chronological; in July, Dr Bojana Beovic has already warned us that the second wave is approaching us, that the Balkans will be a new Italy, a new United Kingdom and that something will have to be done, particularly with regard to the situation in the homes for older citizens. What does Minister Janez Brickler King do? Takes responsibility for individual DSOs at that stage. During the summer, this was July, after the summer, the Community of Social Institutions repeatedly calls for the Ministry to find alternative sites for the infected – and what does Janez Cigler King do? Invites security guards in their homes for older citizens to load the app #Stay Healthy. We are talking about older people, who are, of course, more than one, are less skilled at using mobile phones, smart mobile phones, and this is a recommendation that prepares things for the fall. Then, in fact, we reach September and John Cigler the King then declares that, on the basis of experience from the first wave at the Ministry, they have prepared satisfactory measures to face this second wave. These are satisfactory measures. In the first wave we were relatively okay, this, we see, is the situation of Italy and the United Kingdom; Italy today marks the day of the victims of the epidemic, the day of the victim of the covid. Remember military trucks in Bergamo, or Lombardia, that had to carry bodies because they couldn't cremate them so quickly. Well, these satisfactory measures by the Ministry of Labour are here, and this highest pyramid in the second wave is Slovenia. That's how we got ready. Most or a good half of these excess deaths come from homes for older citizens. On 21 July – if I return now a little back from the fall – the expert group adopts a decision, not a recommendation, to decide that ESD should be provided with isolation capacity. These capacities are intended to be provided by the Ministry of Labour and this was the Ministry of Labour's task. When does this happen? PKP5 October 24th! Three months later. For three months, the Minister, you waited after the recommendation or decision of the Advisory Group to settle the matter, and that was too late for too many. From 1 September to almost the end of October, there were already 786 infected caregivers in homes, 58 dead. On 27 September, the expert group recommends mandatory tests at home for older citizens for employees every 14 days. 30 October, once again, the Advisory Group – same recommendation. When does it get in? December 7th. Two and a half months later. Another huge delay that had some concrete consequences. So by the end of January, we were in a situation where 11 000 out of 20,000 providers and suppliers in the DSOs had been infected, 2,000 of them had died – and of these 2,000 people today we are talking – and that is 58% of all Slovenian covida-19 victims. There's no other previous government to blame. The fact that you have not taken action because of an epidemic that is not even essentially related, additional capacity and so on. I agree with you, the situation in senior citizens' homes was catastrophic before the epidemic, but you've been three and two months late taking some measures, you can't postpone it to the previous governments, no matter what it was. Here is one of these objective responsibilities that you should bear; along with Minister Gantar, if you like, along with John Janša and so on. Why did you decide not to follow the advisory group, why you decided so late to follow the advisory group, I am not really interested in it, because today the situation is like that, we will not bring these people back, their relatives cannot be comforted, but someone will have to accept some responsibility and this is also one of the points. Some mentioned that the difference between home care for elderly citizens and the hospital, which is, is a hundredfold, is €81:8,000 a day. I don't know, did you snarl if I said domestically, like when we delivered the vaccine at the end of last year? I don't know. But it is a fact that you have some responsibility here, and this responsibility is tangible, and we would like to hear the answer to this question, which you and the coalition and everyone else are successfully avoiding. So I would somehow frame this debate to start responding to all the signs that we've made in the interpolation and, in the first place, who's responsible for all these 2,000 plus the dead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Andrej Chernigoj has the word to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u152	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Janez Cigler King, distinguished Madam Secretary of State Matey Ribič, colleague and colleague! Today, March 19th, on the holiday of St. Joseph, a year ago after the emergency, I became a member of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats because of the actions of a man who unannounced and thus admitted that he is not partial to the leadership of the country in the situation of the world, the European Union and our beloved country. Thus, the world of adult Slovenian politics and those of today's interpellation against you, the minister who introduces expertise, development, a new view and grace on the area you run. How the words of the former Prime Minister of the Government, who said, have come true, we love those who create a peaceful society, not eternal divisions. My vote, Your Honor Minister, is that because of your work and your rescue of the most vulnerable in our country in exceptional circumstances. On the other hand, the KUL coalition introduces unrest, the near-war situation throughout the pandemic and the current government, when despite the failed constructive non-trustees invest unnecessary interpretations, which have no strong arguments, the lack of confidence of citizens and citizens, even less the necessary majority in this national assembly, but a few well-sounding pyro-formed sentences. Interpellation is a legitimate tool for the opposition, but it is this depressed act that I see in the light of despair and desire to return to power or become a supercoalist party again. That's why today's interpolation doesn't have my support. Janez Cigler The King is young, full of energy, calm, dignified, and above all an expertly subdued man who, with the first day together with an excellent team, accepted our greatest burden and the most demanding resort in the country. He hasn't rested since day one. Ensuring adequate care for the elderly is one of the most important priorities he has set when he takes up his post. The funds that have been earmarked for investment in past years are in the figures just a little bit more than the necessary funds that the past governments should have allocated, and I therefore believe that today's interpretation findings are flying to all those who have ruled our countries in previous years. And this is especially you, dear proponents. Money for studies – yes, for new investments in the necessary additional capacities – no. Wrong world, let him know who can. As a result, MSOs are sometimes faced with totally inadequate living conditions for caregivers and caregivers. The Minister, in cooperation with the mayors and Civil Protection in Slovenia, has established milestones by editing red zones outside the DSOs. A number of new knowledge and experience have been gained. Let me share with you just one of the knowledge that hotels with tapes are not suitable for the accommodation of red zones. Did you know about this briefly, but very important information, dear colleagues and colleagues? Not me. However, I learned a lot when I proudly supported the work of Civil Protection, volunteers, representatives of the municipality, and local DSO workers. Minister who has provided additional funds for investments and will build new homes for the elderly after 2005, including the one in Vrtojba. That's why I want to know if my dear colleague has ever been to Vertojba. In fact, the building itself had been there for 15 years for its own purpose. That's why I'm really asking for a little insight into something that's not as simple as it seems. I also ask the proposers to agree a little on the private-public ownership of the institutions themselves, because I have felt some disagreement in this area. The Minister, who also provided additional resources for additional employment in the DSOs and encouraged the employment policy of the employment agency, added 550 people, plus more than 100 public workers, in the DSOs alone. The Minister, who listened to the hardships of the isolated population in the DSOs and did not in the second wave unwaveringly close them, although he shares the area with the Ministry of Health and former Minister Gantar. Finally, in December, he introduced rapid tests, although there is a wide range of anti-test environments, which have also drawn unfortunately from the behavior of some parties in this esteemed congregation. We live in extremely difficult times where its measure of subsidising and waiting for work and subsidising the reduction of working time saves and retains 300,000 jobs or so many families. Homework, mission impossible a year ago, has become a reality. With a very good media approach, the Minister convinced a number of employers that he organised his employees by doing work from home and thereby reducing the possibility of infection in the workplace. There are still many arguments against interpretation by the minister in his work circle. But what harms you in the opposition is more to you than to your advantage, as the Minister of the Ministry's standards of action have risen very high. The Minister himself has turned the Ministry from a self-sufficient environment into an organization that listens to people, and in particular actively responds and works against the hardships of people in the Republic of Slovenia. To conclude, another motioner's point of view is why the minister did not call for rapid tests by the end of March. Here I have to say that the gods have really fallen on their heads sometimes, just as they would have told him, why they didn't call for vaccination last March, because the vaccine and the HATG test of March were still missing. But it could be protective equipment. I am also pleased that the SAB has overlooked and today greatly praised the government's response in the first wave, even though we were citizens immediately after the first wave. I also believe that their opinion will eventually turn into a second wave. That's why, dear Minister, because you don't like bragging or boasting on your own, let me tell you what people say in the field, especially people who belong to your ministry. We Primors say don't be afraid of anything because you're the right person in the right place. I wish you and your team a successful job. I'll see you in Illyrian Bistrica soon. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u153	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a replica. Magus first. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Chernigoj, you have concluded that the Minister is the right person in the right place. I'm afraid the numbers don't show that. I'm afraid they don't show it! As we have already pointed out, 58 percent of the deaths in the homes of elderly citizens, 58 of all co-vidal deaths were in the homes of older citizens — and the result is what? This is a consequence of the wrong decisions that should be made by the Minister, whom we are interpreting today. And as we have already said today, the democratic opposition has proposed a number of measures that would improve these things, but you did not want to hear them. We have repeatedly warned that the sick must be separated from the healthy in time. There were capacities, there were rooms, even in the first wave, even in hospitals. In the second wave, you had time to create new capacities to separate these patients from healthy ones, and you did not do so. Nothing's done! Just as much testing. The testing began in mid-December, when everything was practically over. However, you will not say that it was not possible to provide some tests to test the employees in the homes and those who come to visit. In short, Minister, you burned on the line. Secondly, you mentioned again this so-called analysis of the means that the Ministry would give in the past for analysis and research. It just doesn't hold. I'm asking the minister to explain these things because it doesn't hold. These 74 million have not yet been used. And this has been clearly denied in the past by the Ministry. If you're a credible person, Minister, please say that. At the same time, you are boasting about what you will do with this money today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u156	Yeah, because Marko took a little out of my mouth, but my friend Chernigoy is obviously exactly what I said before. I mean, stay away from what's the key theme. Maybe you don't want to hear it, or you don't understand it, but full of praise from the minister doesn't mean that it hasn't happened. It is said that 2,000 deaths in the DSOs and specifically ignoring the instructions or recommendations of the profession; bi-monthly, tri-monthly ignoring. I really can't listen to these praises anymore, and what you've done, you're gonna do, it's been done, and I don't know what. One of the key findings was inadequate management of the disease in the DSOs and we have no answers. So I can quote to you chapter 27, verse 23, of the Gospel of Matthew, and you may look at this, “You are worse than the scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you are like whitewashed graves, which look beautiful on the outside, but they are full of dead bones and all kinds of uncleanness.” That's one of the beers of it. You can paint this facade of John the Brick King as much as you want, but that fact remains, so answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would ask everyone to make the replica a replica, not a debate, not a controversy. I hope you can read and understand the business provision. Now we continue the debate. Robert Pavšič has the word and will be followed by Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Good evening to all, or good morning, as it is to whom. First of all, there won't be any misunderstandings about the replica later. In fact, there will be no replica, but there will be an intervention on what we have just heard in the last five minutes. I mean, that was really catastrophic. The Minister makes additional investments in the homes of older citizens by selling a home that has already been built to a private person. In order to subsidise part-time, we now see that those who have worked part-time will have to pay back that money. One more thing. Apparently, the world began for Member Montenegro on 13 March last year. On January 27th, Marjan Sarec resigned, for we have already explained a hundred times, and why this government was created. If the former government has resigned because of principle, it was created for only one reason, and this is opportunism. On 3 March he was appointed Janez Janša as mandate-holder. And I don't know, they were quick tests, but they didn't appear miraculously until December in Slovenia — or how? Before that, there was no way of knowing whether anyone had a co-vid or not. Yeah, then last year, I don't know, we threw a coin. Well, actually, we're throwing it now, but we're paying it now. The tests have been done before, so don't talk nonsense. Because I've also seen the minister, you're embarrassing him, even with these praises. Symptoms of the relevance of interpolation. We're talking today instead of those who can't, because maybe they're gone. We speak instead of those you don't want to hear. You have carried out all these powerful measures, you have committed many millions, you have communicated, analyzed, done protocols; in short, according to your standards, what I have listened to today, you have done effectively and correctly. What about the results? There's only one thing that matters to me. Then what's number 2,000 58? What, then, is nearly 60 percent? Shall I tell you? This is the proportion of elderly people from their homes among the dead. Last year, almost 3,000,600 deaths above the usual average. Just statistics for some; it's an indication to me that something went wrong. Do you know what went wrong? Since you didn't say anything today, you didn't define yourself to what went wrong. You're just analyzing this right now, I've heard it in your response, or you're not analyzing it, you're analyzing this association, and that's what it represents to you, and you're presenting this information to us. Very credible! Someone tells you something, you filter it out and give us what suits you. But we're already used to it. And don't tell me, please, how an epidemic is some global, global problem. Of course it is! But why is Slovenia a phenomenon in this global problem, both by the number of deaths per million population and by the number of infected per million population? Because of the global situation? Is it because of Marian Charz? Because of past governments? We've already heard today, this government is working, this minister is working. The result is on the palm of your hand, here are the numbers. They're brutal. They hurt me, I believe they hurt you, too. The millions of euro that have gone missing is one of the highest mortality and infection and a complete defeat in action. As a result, this also means defeat in your credibility. The government has given money to people — how much does one life cost? If you could only save one with an unlimited bag that you have at your disposal, it's easy to do. [[...]] A while ago, your client also claimed that the government of Marjana Sharca had prepared an unconstitutional budget with the planned surplus. And now it's money that we don't actually have, which in some situations you shouldn't even have, is immoral, unfair. The planned surplus was unconstitutional, but what you're doing now is: we're working for people. I don't see any special agenda. The numbers speak, you know, I'll tell you again: 2 000 58 only in the homes of older citizens. If we draw the line below all your answers and the answers of the people who are defending you are all in money, even for the ministers of the New Slovenia quota. You have proven this through the acquisition of protective equipment, which also involved Minister Tonin, you are proving this now by stubborn insistence on the purchase of weapons, if not through a special law, will go through ZIPRS now, this proves your former vice-president of the party in choosing an operator for electronic wine, and this at the end of the day also collectively proves the government by speculating about the price of the vaccine, because, of course, for paradise, the cheapest is also the one, although you could buy half a million slightly more expensive vaccines. And now let me trust you with your good words! All I can conclude is that it was cheaper to keep elderly people in the homes of older citizens, and it should have been so brutal or ugly, because the big difference between 80 and 8 thousand euros is 100 times and the terrible difference at the same time. This suggests your dimension of perception of the cost of human life. It's all about money, how you shared it, how you solved it, I don't know what – we didn't save anything! Not yet. Yeah, me neither. You know, it's better to prepare in advance than then to fix, the prevention is always better than the curative, and now we get to that main reading. It wasn't enough in the summer. Specific solutions, calls, suggestions, not only on the part of the policy, you can ignore this, no one will blame you, but on the part of the profession – and this government profession, government expert groups – you have ignored them. On 23 March, the expert group writes, “There are no reasons for optimism, since we have so far low mortality numbers and a large statistical error, but so far the trend of calm is present and holds for a few days. I hope that we have managed to reverse the rate of spread, but unfortunately we have the first initial cases in the DSO, which will contribute to higher mortality." You already had that information on March 23rd. And what else do they write? “For the time being, we do not have an appropriate strategy for the DSO, but without home it is a floating fire, it is necessary to divide patients into normal parts, hospital part, ICU, this is an intensive care and palliative part, and to provide work with quarantined supplies. It would be optimal for existing home doctors to take care of the providers of DSOs and, in practice, they are understaffed, they do not want to do so.” You had all this information, and the solutions were offered to you. You could include, say, doctors from regional hospitals, concessionaries from the region, but you probably haven't even talked to the minister about these things, but it's the homes of older citizens. Within a few weeks, they write, “Some homes are poorly prepared for an epidemic”. That's April 18th. “The ideal conditions for the spread of the virus. Conclusions: Since the covid-19 epidemic in welfare institutions will continue in the future, institutions should be properly organised. For the time being, the Ministry of Health has instructions on how to organise themselves. These instructions should be arranged and proposed to the Ministry of Labour to take a decision to be able to supervise inspection services in order to help them. ” [[…]] It's huge, because my colleague Jerica has already shown it to you, read it, and you're certainly familiar with it. And what happened? Nothing! I'm just listening to the answers here from this side. Same thing over and over again: we gave the money, we gave it, we gave it to the other. We didn't! No, this country gave it to me! What will be the consequences of this giving, but we will see. Like parrots, it's always the same as empty warehouses, not wearing masks, not taking action. You know that's not true. On 25 February, a meeting was held between all health establishments, where they ensured that the protective equipment was sufficient. February 25th! Nobody knew what was going to happen, not you, not the doctors, not the experts. And then on March 13th, you become all full smart, destroy those 50 masks of FFP3 for a photo term and admit it, but it's very easy if you just do a pear story like you do. Three things my colleague asked you today, only three things. You haven't answered any of them, and you haven't denied or confirmed any of them. She asked you about compensation for employees who could be better prepared, but not with such a complex scheme that even accountants could not get through. And in fact, through this way you overcame the responsibility of employers, because if it were to be found that the injury was at work, which the covid infection was in fact also marked that way or that the form had to be filled out if the injury was found at work with covid-19, the employer should be liable for compensation. As a result, people either had a lower salary or went to work sickly. You didn't deny it. Space for insulation or additional capacity. They begged you, they begged you! You got rid of it by simply sending instructions to make it happen, even though it was not possible. You've been sending unfulfilled instructions to senior citizens' homes. And testing! Now you tell me there were no tests this summer for senior citizens' homes. Please confirm to me what your colleague claimed. Please! And today you will certainly get the support of the National Assembly, but that will not be the result of your arguments. This will not be the result of your arguments, because in some normal country, which has a little bit of political correctness – what would happen? The real leader would call you to the defense and ask you: “Janez, is it true that you did not arrange compensation for employees, that you did not provide additional spatial capacity and did not arrange testing?” And you'd probably be embarrassed to say, "Yes, it is." And the Prime Minister should say, "Janez, thank you for your work, but you have to say goodbye and please give your resignation statement." But not a bit of this political correctness, not as we used to be in the government of Mariana Sarca. Because of many minor matters, even when it later turned out to be innocent, ministers had to say good-bye. And today you will receive the support of the National Assembly. I don't think the interpretation will work. There must be a miracle, but not because of your arguments or the nebulous arguments we hear from coalition types. You're going to survive this interpolation because of the chairs and those here and those there. Because if this government is said to be good-bye, then the alternate Members of Parliament will also go home. Probably. And because of your chair. It's not about senior citizens' homes, not about the elderly, not about the children, not about the employees, not about the poor, not about the country. It's the chairs!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The replica of Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Pavšić. Mr. Pavšič misunderstood or disobeyed me. First of all, I started my term on March 19th, here I would really like to thank a colleague who fixed it immediately. Nor did Mr Pavšič understand or refused to understand – I apologize for leaving the hall – my entire debate, but he wants to dissect only parts of my debate, which may hurt him. In my debate, I have legitimately presented the arguments why I will not support today's interpretation. Another fact where I may have been misunderstood or misinterpreted. I told you the test wasn't available in March, you said it was summer. I just want to fix you here, but I know you've run out of arguments because you've very wide-ranging your debate, almost to the Ravbarkomanda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Procedurally Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u162	Yes, please find in this debate Mr Montenegro the part where he was misunderstood, because I did not understand anything at all; not what he said or what he now said. At times, double standards really do not exist in this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u163	Comrade Pavšič, each sentence has begun or every thesis is that you don't understand it. I hope you understand that. [[advertising from the hall]] I suggest, however, that you do not use these tricks with procedural proposals and similar matters, because these matters will also need to be penalised slowly. We continue the debate. Bojan Podkoršek has the word and Blaž Pavlin will discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u164	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to the distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and all of you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Throughout the day, we follow the debate, of course, from both the left and the right. Different views on today, on the work of the ministry, the minister, but, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, when we leave this hall, everyone will be in the same trouble, in the same thinking, in the same respects as our citizens and citizens who listen to us all day long. Many times in this national assembly, I have heard that it would be right for younger ones to come into politics. I am pleased when young Members, younger Members and Members are elected. I'm particularly pleased when the younger ministers get the chance. I am glad that there are quite a few young ministers in the government of Janez Janša. Among other things, today, most of which, on the left hand side, you see things that are not lifelike. You know, today to report to someone that he's guilty of death in these difficult times. Do you know what can happen to us, as I mentioned earlier, when we step outside the door of this National Assembly? This is what citizens and citizens listen to, the children of the minister, the neighbours listen; in short, this is an opportunity for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia to listen. Now to invest in interpretation in these difficult times is unacceptable to me, this is my personal opinion. In these difficult times, which are not only in Slovenia, but are in most parts of the world. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not go too far into history and condemn any of the ministers in past governments, but the fact is, there are over 2,000 citizens and citizens who have worked for 40 years or more who have not been able to go home. But it's not the minister's fault, which is one year, but it's the fault of past ministers, past governments, that they need a home in our immediate future for over 12,000 citizens and citizens. I am pleased to be accompanying the work of this ministry; the Minister, with all the co-workers, especially in the segment, that we will build five new homes in the coming year, and the two will be finished. I think some indicative amount of this investment is about 30 million. If I go back to history, we haven't spent that much money on homes in ten years. In short, in these difficult times, which do not even see the end, no one in Slovenia, especially in terms of expertise, does not know when it will pass, I think it is important that we devote ourselves mainly to the Ministry of Work, to families that have been in trouble – here I think of the disabled – and in particular I have an employee here. In these difficult times, it seems to me that keeping a job is as valuable as opening a new one. In short, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, my view is on this situation, on this hard work of the Ministry, this minister and all his colleagues are positive. We need to be aware that we are in the most difficult times in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, and to invest interpretations in these difficult times, it seems to me like a patient in the operating room, and we would knock on the door of experts to terminate the operation. These actions are irresponsible and do not benefit our country, but above all they are not for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of this country. In short, Minister, it is my desire that this work of yours, which is not easy, continue to do, of course, fourteen, sixteen hours a day, for the benefit of all of us. However, I would also like to thank all your colleagues for helping you with this, especially since we have heard a lot of criticism today in this national assembly, especially on the left hand side, all those who are helping you in these difficult times to find new positive ideas. Since it rarely sounds in the National Assembly a word with only five letters, it is: thank you. We know how to criticize, we know how to condemn, but above all, we have experienced something at today's interpretation that we have not yet experienced. To condemn some, or one minister, that he is also responsible for some of the deaths of people, our citizens and our citizens. I think it's unacceptable, it's rude, and let's put ourselves in the role of those who have lost their relatives, who are having a hard time grasping it. Above all, we are further opening up these wounds by today's discussion of some. In short, Minister, I support your work, and I ask you to insist on your way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Cigler the King asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Thank you very, very much, Mr Podkoršek, honourable Member, for this debate. She touched me very personally, and I believe everyone who listened to her. Unfortunately, there were some debates ahead of you that left me amazed, almost speechless. This is not about me, fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I must expect that I will not be able to be in a ministerial position, and Mr Bandelli said first that one is a ministerial position, the other is a person. I am also grateful to him that he has actually made a distinction between personal appearances or professional insights into my work. I repeat, this isn't about me. I expect it will always be difficult in the National Assembly, and it is right that you are demanding. It's actually about my co-workers, my co-workers, it's about teams at home for the elderly all over Slovenia, it's about Civil Protection, a lot of volunteers, volunteers who worked, some of whom I had the opportunity to meet now after the second wave, when we evaluated the work done at the regional meetings. Respected and respected, when I have no words at all, in such an easy way, I am truly amazed and speechless. Here was said a little earlier, before the MP of Podkorjek a few words about protective equipment and now it is here – I don't know, I am embarrassed. My direct experience of 14 March 2020 is diametrically opposite. The experience of home for elders, directors and directors is diametrically opposite. My experience and experience of these directors, with whom I was immediately in contact with the outbreaks of the virus, was that at the time of my ministerial function in the state logistics centre of DLC on 16 March 2020, 93 000 500 surgical masks were available – I think they are the same as I am wearing today – 2,000 masks FFP1, 10,000 masks FFP2 – or pardon, a thousand masks FFP2 – 1,3 000 400 masks FFP3, a million 512 000 380 latex gloves, 8 000 649 protective suits and 374 protective glasses. Even though the World Health Organization warned in the early days of March that the supply of protective medical equipment due to increasing demand, accumulation of equipment and abuse is rapidly decreasing. His fears, as well as his concerns about the state of supply of protective equipment, were expressed in a statement on 25 February – I think the same date was expressed, mentioned – was also expressed by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. At that time, Prime Minister Marjan Šarec almost mocked the statement, and I quote, “it is as if they said that police officers are afraid of firearms”. I don't think I need to comment on the numerical state of equipment or the relationship of the then President of the Government to this issue. And that all of this further explains the reasons for the lack of equipment for health and other staff at the time following the pledge of the new government. Quick tests; there have been intensive discussions across Europe on the use of rapid tests, their quality, reliability and utility. As soon as there were relatively verifiable findings on the quality and use of rapid tests at the international expert level, I called on all homes for older people to use them. 19. 11. 2020 I called on the directors of home for the elderly to provide regular preventive testing for all those working for the purpose of controlling and preventing the spread of SARS-COV-2. It was important that I called for the testing of all employees, not only health workers, as provided for by the Ministry of Health for the purpose of controlling infectious disease covid-19. I was amazed at the Member's statement earlier that I should define whether the health coordinators and their co-workers and members of the Section of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour were at home. But here I am obliged as Minister to protect the integrity of these people. These are experts who went, if necessary, even on Saturday night, at night, or on Sunday instead of a family lunch, to a home of elderly people anywhere in Slovenia. They left their family, went to their homes to help them with an immediate and rapid response to the acute situation if the virus came along. These are the people who should get all the recognition of this society, and I think that in the National Assembly we should give them all the recognition in the first place. These are the people who sat at many coordinations, meetings at Cankar's home, elsewhere. Together we shook a situation that was very difficult and unpredictable and responded to the situation in our homes. I myself am extremely, extremely reserved for such a appointment as has been said. Protocol to act on the occurrence of the virus in nursing homes, with the assistance of the Community of Social Institutions, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, prepared to support the response to the occurrence of the virus in nursing homes. Here they received homes for older basic grounds for handling and responding and ensuring that the expert group of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour is available and that, where necessary, they should be activated immediately, and this was a great deal. That was a lot. Another measure was also taken at this time of summer, when some slept included in this Protocol and, as far as I was going around the social security institutions, they all considered it extremely useful. However, it was the result of hard work, negotiations between the Ministry of Health, the Community of Social Protection Institutions and the Ministry of Labour. I also had to be a mediator a number of times, or we could call a crisis mediator in some cases at local level. Remember Ljutomer. This measure was the withdrawal of the first tenants from the home for the elderly to the appropriate hospital for up to 72 hours in order to prepare an individual home organisationally and spatially to face the virus. The measure, weighed by the profession, by the authorities of the home, namely the medical profession, the social profession and both ministries. It's an outer red zone. By the time the money was provided for the establishment of the outer red zones, we had not yet begun to establish these outer red zones, we helped the operators to do so from the beginning. Of course, we had different views of the medical profession on this. The Minister of Labour is not responsible for determining health measures or under the Law on Infectious Diseases, because we do not have this expertise; we, our profession, are responsible for social protection, and we know that and do good. And the outer red zone, we can say, is actually the first day or the first weekend on Saturday, Sunday, we started to establish, say, in Metlika. Why did not all the outer red zones mentioned or offered in different debates succeed? Look, some of you said you were in nursing homes. Really well done, hat down. Those especially know that certain conditions must be met for the accommodation of older people, especially those in need of a higher level of care; they are spatial, technical and others. In fact, the expert group of the Ministry of Health went to look at all these potential areas and then evaluate them. Relevance. But once again, the medical profession determined this appropriateness of these accommodations. Someone said why we didn't use all the hotels. See, hotels, although they sound very attractive or likeable, are often, from the point of view of safe care, really inappropriate. They're not built to accommodate the elderly or lift them. But if they are, they are often too small to carry hospital beds, and the elderly cannot walk up the stairs. In addition, most of the elderly in Slovenian homes are for the elderly. 80 percent. Barriers to movement represent inter-floor steps, thresholds and the like. Barriers are narrow corridors, narrow doors, which are not suitable for transportation of hospital beds and other equipment. Few hotel rooms are large enough to accommodate hospital beds and all related equipment, such as oxygen cylinders and the like, while allowing the smooth movement of staff. There are no common spaces necessary for the accommodation of the elderly, dining rooms, laundry rooms, medicine rooms, suitable social facilities. The next item may seem banal, but it is not, how important it is. In many rooms and corridors there is usually a tape recorder on the floor. On the walls, however, often textile coatings and curtains. All of this prevents daily cleansing and disinfection. The hotel room door closes automatically. In practice, therefore, many, perhaps even offered, hotel accommodation has proved inappropriate. But performers and local communities, and all of them, even in many cases of primary school, we didn't all stick together or stop at it, but we kept looking. And we assured in Postojna, we assured Koroška in Topolšica, we assured in the House of St Agatha, we helped. I am grateful for the debate of the distinguished Head of the Desus Group, Mr Franco Jurša. He said a lot in a few words. As regards the fact that he is to inherit a very favourable situation with the surplus in the budget. The fact is, I had a minus 380 million euros on the IMF at the time of my takeover.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Replica, Robert Pajovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u168	Mr. Minister, I hope that you were wrong or that you were not talking about me when you spoke about the derogation or degradation of the section. I just read you the record of the same expert group. When we talked about the tests, I wasn't talking about the quick tests. I was talking about the tests. And don't tell me it was hard to test people for the virus in the spring. Not about the quick tests, about the tests. So, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Blaž Pavlin, followed by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u170	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament, welcome to all those who are still in the Chamber at this late hour! The epidemic or crisis we are witnessing today and the situation we have experienced in the last year have certainly exposed to the end how well or poorly we have set up different systems in the country. This has proved to be good and bad in our health care, education, and care for the elderly. In this situation, the long-term malnutrition of the system of care for the elderly and the lack of acceptance of the law on long-term care has been demonstrated. For many years in Slovenia we have faced challenges related to the provision of adequate conditions for the comprehensive care of the elderly. Today, 70 percent of residents in institutional housing are 80 years of age or older, resulting in an increased need for higher levels of support and care. And when we talk about all of this today, it is difficult to avoid discussing the priorities and responsibilities of various ministers in the past. This also depended on the possibility and limitations of handling the epidemic. Unfortunately, we need to talk about this today at this interpretation. We all agree in today's debates that homes for older people have been spatial, technical and humanely fed for years. In fact, the epidemic has only highlighted problems that have accumulated over the years. In recent decades, the country has not invested in the homes of older citizens, they have been undernourished and the employees have been poorly rewarded. Homes formally became nursing hospitals, but in fact they did not have adequate spatial conditions, adequate health personnel, and the number of these personnel was too small. It was only a matter of time before this system collapsed and the covida-19 epidemic caused this. In this short time, the Government and NIJZ have taken a series of measures from spring to autumn to respond to the epidemic and outbreak of the epidemic in nursing homes. The most outstanding measure was certainly the establishment of grey, white and red areas or so-called zones. At the time of preparation or response to the epidemic and the situation in the homes, additional money was provided, which employed new people in nursing homes who helped in the second wave of the epidemic. Let me point out that Slovenia does not have nursing homes compared to abroad, which means that our homes are combined and have many elderly people who are in palliative care or have many associated diseases. Thus, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is responsible for the institutional protection of the elderly in these homes, led by Minister Janez Cigler Kralj and directed by the Ministry of Health at home, during most of the epidemic last year under the leadership of the then Minister Tomaž Gantar. Thus, the responsibilities and responsibilities of the homes for the elderly are shared. Now there is something else about the use of rapid tests, which for a long time have not been a single opinion of the profession itself. Some in this hall still have a number of concerns about their use. As previously assured by Minister Janez Cigler the King, he immediately called for their use when relevant verified findings emerged at the international level regarding their quality and the use of these rapid tests. The number of people who died in Slovenia at the time of the epidemic is certainly high and every life that went out in this epidemic is certainly too much and, like all of us in the National Assembly, I sincerely regret it. But surely there are several reasons why Slovenia has such mortality and one such reason is that Slovenia has one of the oldest populations in Europe and we know that mortality among the oldest has been the highest in all European Union countries. In the summer, Professor Alojz Ihan estimated that it is impossible to control the spread of the virus into the homes of the elderly if the virus is widespread in the population itself. That's exactly what happened to us in the fall, we had a lot of infected people in the population. The reasons why, at least let him answer himself. Let me get this straight. All caregivers in nursing homes and others have received medical and hospital care as a result of the covid-19 virus if and when they needed it. Surely the situation we have witnessed in the last year has not been normal and all measures have not been taken, the way of work has not been predetermined and cannot be fully foreseen. On the contrary, we have adapted to the situation, and I hope that we will learn something from this epidemic about possible future similar situations. Dear Minister! I've known you for a very long time, and John Brickler the King is certainly a man of dialogue and a given word that listens to the interlocutor and takes into account different opinions. I won't support today's interpolation alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perič, and it will be followed by Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u172	Good morning, good morning to you all! Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I think we've been here a while. We've said a lot of things. I myself have been thinking about what would contribute to this debate, and the impression I have made in this for a very long time is that the perceptions of the proposer flying at the expense of the minister, after all, over the work of the ministry as a certain body, where it is not only a minister, but there are still a number of professional colleagues, that all these perceptions reflect some kind of deep pain, which is even irrational to cities, and I don't know if this is the right place to put these irrational aspects in this political debate. After all, certain allegations are very serious, and for many, they are also very painful, especially when we talk about them and when we point very directly to the minister, to the Ministry, that he is directly responsible for the many loss of life. Such findings are very difficult to tell, and when we say such things, we really need to be aware of what we are doing. If we want some serious and articulated debates based on facts here, then we must be extremely careful to capture a broad enough picture, and when we talk about the causes and consequences, we must be respectful, not politicized or not political, because we are not political, because people are listening to us after all. Why am I saying this? I say this because the management of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I do not think it is easy. This is one of the more demanding ministries that does not decide whether one road will go 10 meters to the left or more to the right, but we decide or make decisions about a number of very important rights for people, how they will live, what their economic standard will be, and what else. We are directly concerned with people and the way they live, so the importance of decisions is even greater here and that is why our words can also have an inappropriate weight. I can't imagine how then all this is experienced, even those who have lost relatives, loved ones, friends and the like in this pandemic. So let us be correct here and take into account, above all, one fact, and this fact is that as a society, we as a country, as many governments, as we are this area, in particular the care of the elderly, for many years systematically, I will say deliberately or negligently. But this is just the fact that, like many others, it did not invest enough money, it did not pay enough attention, and as soon as the accounts came in. We've got him extremely resourced right on the case of the pandemic as such. Taking that into account and then pointing only at the minister who does his job — how much time? - It's gonna be a year now. I think it's very unfair for all those who have also done the minister's work in front of Minister Janez Brickler King. So maybe we should have all these ministers right here in front of us, and then those eyewitnesses flying today would have found some more real headlines. Maybe we could put someone else here. So, as I said before, let's be correct and consider what has happened, not in the last year, but in the last five years, in the last ten years. We can also take into account that we have been in a financial crisis, but there are things that we have solved in our country and are areas that we have neglected. And in particular, the care of the elderly was one of those who was neglected. Either we like it or we don't. I believe, and even in today's debate, today's debate or yesterday's debate has proved to be as much done in the last year as it has not done in the last ten years. Thus, with this aspect, I find it difficult to accept some or many of the indications that are flying to the Minister and, as I said, some are even very irrational. That is how I would like to have some discussions here, which, above all, will have a desire for an objective debate, not politicisation. Because if I go a little bit this way, then I can say that this is not really about the interpretation of John the Brickler King, but it is about the interpretation or when the LMŠ is interpreting the SD – if we are just looking at how long a party has run a single ministry. As we say, this subject is extremely delicate, it is extremely sensitive, and today, as I have already mentioned, we are dealing with getting some very resourceful account for what we have not done in the past. We can also see from this perspective that in some ways even closing down schools served to protect our elders. If in the past they invested more in nursing homes, if their standard of living were better, if the facilities were newer, if the ventilation systems were more quality, more modern, all these intrusions would be smaller and fewer victims themselves. Otherwise, we were in the field of political, and as we discovered two or three days ago when the Minister of Education was interpreting when she received interpretations on one side, because schools had been closed too long if schools had been open, there would have been a lot of hot spots of infection, but there would have been an interpolation because there were a lot of infections in schools. It's the same in this case that we have today. So, in the political field, it's always about overplay and even in the epidemic situation, whatever the minister does in a particular area, he'll never be right. Because they were older and infected in homes for older citizens, that was wrong. When, in one case, I remember moving them from home to the gym, there was once again a bunch of bad will, the media were jumping around, everyone was angry, there was a lot of criticism. Whatever happened, there's always someone who's criticized this solution. Also from a professional point of view. And we had experts who spoke one, and we had experts who spoke another. Politics is then the place where it must decide and make a decision. And we in here, after everything is over, when we have numbers, when we have a lot more analysis, some professional basis, we usually collect the one that suits us best, and then to someone – I'll tell them at home – we salt the brains or we're generals after the battle is over. This is a very simple attitude, but the question is, if it is right to the efforts of all those who have, I believe, sought optimal solutions that were aware that we are talking about people's lives. If this is the reward for their efforts, I mean not only the minister, but I think of a lot of other people, both in the field of the Ministry of Labour, the family and in the field of health, and I probably don't know much about whether that's what they deserve, but that's what we're offering them today and yesterday, so people will assess whether we're doing it right or not. Once again, when we interpret the minister, who in this year, I believe, has taken a strong stand to solve these areas, it is also, in fact, some signal, I think, some pain for all that has not been done in the past. Because I would like to point out again or highlight what my colleague, the widower, has already said. We sat on the Hill a good year and a half ago, and when we adopted the two-year budget, we set some political priorities and decided where we would give the money. A colleague of the Udovč proposed, even in the previous government of Mr Šarc, that we should look for some means to build the home of older citizens, and unfortunately I must say that you were not willing at the time. I guess if we knew what was coming, we'd have made a different decision, but we're not, and we're where we are today. It is so difficult to listen to all these obviouss that this year has not been done enough, because I think, given the situation of the epidemic, it has been extremely large. In addition to extinguishing the fire, systemic measures were also sought. I believe that when a person works under such pressure constantly, when there are so many more interests, when systems fall down and you have to do them again every day, even in the face of constantly changing situations, putting on your feet, there are also such or other mistakes, I believe they are not intentional, but who does sins, who does much work, probably makes a mistake out of statistics even more. But I absolutely believe that in our debates, even in the media, we went to certain points too far. I remember, but I don't think I'm the only one who's been hurt, and there's been a lot of other harm when we've been monitoring individual debates on so-called death lists in the media. Now it's so late that probably a lot of people don't follow us, but I thought it was extraordinary. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you for your help, Mr. Han. Welcome back. In short, I'm talking about some serious stuff. The media then launched a story about death lists; in short, it separates people into different categories. And I believe that the reservation or anger of people, even those who have relatives, in the homes of the elderly and panic was very great. So in this process, when we were looking for solutions or exits from the pandemic, a lot of things were done, which I think would be good for us to learn from and, above all, not to make these mistakes. On the other hand, our responsibility as politicians is to give the media in particular some signs of some hope that are soothing, but we have not always done so. There is also a part of our shared responsibility that, in particular in the second part, we can be more successful in dealing with this crisis that we are in. Now, how much more politics has been going on then, and what else could anyone do in the past, or could have some other government that would better face this situation; this is more debate or a question for those who, after the previous government has shut down, wanted to talk or looked for options or gave up the will to dialogue at all. I regret, however, that some of your colleagues still insist that you do not want to take this dialogue. I believe you'll find that this is not the right path. How fast this is going to happen, I don't know, I hope so as soon as possible. But I can tell you that I will not support this interpolation, and I want to continue my successful work with the minister. He's got my back, but I don't think that's gonna be enough. If he has our common support for those good projects, it will be much easier if we do not politicise here. However, it is a fact that the Minister will also be able to succeed if other resources, which are also linked to this ministry, are successful. In the final stage, the government is also a body or ministry that has to cooperate with one another; if one of the ministries goes poorly, it will be known in other ministries. So everything we have not done in the past has been very well known in individual ministries. Even for those who had settled matters, it was like a wave. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in particular in the area of care for the elderly, was even more visible. So there are still many challenges to be faced here, I believe that even after this interpretation, the Minister will have had the opportunity to explain many things that have been rolling on the stage for some time, to make it easier or with more energy and elena to undertake these projects. As a matter of fact, I won't support interpolation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u173	Thank you very much. She asked for the floor by Jerco Korča, the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u174	Thank you very much. My colleague Perič spoke about the fact that it is very difficult to listen to irrational findings and that his very strong desire for an objective discussion to be here. I agree. I also agree that there is too much politicization. But do you know if you've been watching today — how many? – 16 hours of discussion, then you will probably recognize with a can of self-reflection where rational readings came from and the debate was objective – at least the desire was to explain objectively some of the facts presented from the interpretation – and where the politicization took place. It is true that it is very difficult to argue with people who do not understand, but even more difficult than that to deal with people who pretend not to understand. And today, the minister has often made himself unaware of the perceptions we're giving in to interpretation. And I'm going to do it all over again, sort of parroty -- I don't know how many times I've done it, but once again, today I haven't received any answers to the particulars in the interpretation. [[…]] I expected to get some answers from the minister on these three points, and then I'll be able to go to another point, but we're stuck with these basic readings. As far as testing is concerned, I heard it today or a little while ago: we introduced it as soon as we could; when this was confirmed, when organizations told us that tests were okay. But Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have imposed this obligation in nursing homes at least one month before us. We or the minister of December 7th. The expert group, the government expert group, proposed this to him; for the first time, on 27 September 2020, the expert group proposed this to him on 30 October 2020, starting on 1 November. So, obviously at the time, as did Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and another country. What happened until December 7th, this answer or question remains in the air. And the minister says he's 19. He called home. But home alone 25. 11. 2020, so six days after his call, they say they are still waiting for accurate information. Well, the minister calls them, but the homes don't have information. And these are the minister's political responsibilities that something obviously didn't happen. Secondly, I did not receive any response to the obvious why it was decided not to fight the spread of infections in the workplace at the level of compensation belonging to an individual, irrespective of whether he was infected in quarantine, in symosis, in the workplace, outside the workplace. Why in Slovenia have we decided to set up a number of different ways of paying wages? And there is no doubt that there would be fewer infections if the Minister adapted the legislation accordingly. That's a fact, and that's logic. But the minister didn't do it. Moreover, on 31 December it was not until 31 December that it granted 100% compensation to healthcare professionals and workers in their homes for older citizens. The minister did not respond to this today with any arguments or to explain why. And third time, outside units. The Minister said earlier that in some cases these units were provided. They are on the initiative and with the good will of the local communities that have engaged themselves, or of the homes that have become self-involved. We agree in one part all together, and the self-sacrifice workers in homes and in health care were the ones who kept the system up to date, that it really didn't collapse, and politics didn't do its job. In this part, the minister did not make or postpone some decisions for a month, two, three. He accepted them with a three-month delay, according to the recommendations of the government expert consultative group. He did not hear calls at home that they could not provide separate zones, and he did not hear calls from the Community of Social Institutions that this matter should be regulated systematically. On 16 July 2020, they called for the matter to be settled on a systemic level, that the matter cannot be left behind when it comes to a situation in a home and then it is resolved in some way. It was the minister's responsibility. He didn't share it with anyone. And if he's been getting calls, these calls are uniform, they're not different calls. My friend Perič said earlier, there were these and other suggestions. In these cases, which I refer to, the calls were uniform. Everyone agreed on what had to be done, everyone suggested it to the minister, everyone wrote to the minister, and the minister didn't react. Only these three key issues have been answered by the Minister today. Therefore, I understand it because it is difficult to answer, because it is difficult to answer some of the very objective facts that are found in the letters and the chronology is clear, and it is clear when someone has proposed something and when someone has not reacted. And under the line it is clear that the one who is in charge is responsible because he is a politician because he is a minister because he is at the top of the system and has leverage to take a decision. But if you don't make a decision and take responsibility or wait for someone else to do something, then you've missed your job. We have heard many times today that it goes to a personal level. If the claim of political responsibility from someone who accepted the post on 13 March accepted the role of Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and carried out it through the first wave and then had time over the summer to prepare matters and respond to all that they called on him from the field, and things delayed and reimbursed costs, only costs, home for the external zones provided only on 24 October 2020. From the first calls, from 27 March, he waited until 24 October for only financial resources and did not take care of systemic solutions in the meantime, for what he was supposed to do. And today he didn't answer that question. I am sincerely disappointed that today such a minister will remain in his position; a minister who has not responded to three indications through interpretation today, which were one of the key to curbing the spread of the virus, and the consequences are shown in figures. These numbers are, respectfully, very terrible, very, very terrible, but these numbers are the consequences of what I've been asking the Minister all day today, and he doesn't say in a single word why he didn't act, why he ignored. And under the line, why doesn't he take political responsibility for his actions?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here because I wanted to address him directly. Whatever. The minister says he's amazed when he listens to us. But I have to say, I'm amazed when I listen to him or to the coalition MPs who say the minister isn't guilty of death. And the people of God! We are not talking here about the Christian concept of guilt, we are talking here about the objective responsibility of the minister, the responsibility for non-action, the slow action, the arbitrary decisions that kill in the situation of the epidemic – are we not? He's been calling on the minister for months to isolate the infected elderly outside the home for the elderly. You had hospitals, hotels, and so on. In the second wave, we could, after all, determine which GMOs would serve as red zones and which would be intended for the uninfected. But what happened? You didn't isolate them until October. In September, she called on the profession to be tested twice a week. What happened? You didn't do it until December. And that's what we've been asking you all day, and my colleague Vatovec asked you why it's always been so long between calling the profession and implementing one of the measures. Why? We want that answer! You owe us that answer! And it's really strange that you guys stay away from each other all the time. Explain to us how it is possible that by the end of January 11 000 of the total 20,000 providers and suppliers of DSOs had been infected and more than two thousand had died. I'm sorry, it's not like that. If you listen to the profession, you'd be less infected if you were less infected, you'd be less likely to die. It's a logical connection. And as far as possible, I rely on NIJZ's internal data, which could be read in the media, so that 85 percent with the crown of infected residents and residents in the first wave were not treated in hospitals. They were simply trapped in the DSOs, which turned into plague chambers of death. And the minister didn't see them. Many died in these zones, red zones, ventilators, and intensive care had never been found. There's still ambiguity in the first wave. Recall: In the beaks, the consiglia found out in a few minutes which elderly person would be and who would not receive hospital treatment in the event of an infection. Whether you deny it or not, that was the case — the arbitrariness of life and death decisions. Just like that. And how is all this possible if everything is as fine as the Minister has always claimed? How? Is there more than two thousand deaths in the DSOs something? Someone has to be responsible for this; and who, if not the minister responsible for the DSOs? These people, and now here statistics are inexcusable, mean 58 percent of all Slovenian covida-19 victims. In the first wave it was even worse, at that time 87 dead elderly people accounted for 77 percent of the structure of death due to the coronary virus. And now we're comparing, say, in OECD countries, this share is on average 47%. In the United States of America, which is one of the cases of ill-confrontation with co-vids, the population of DSOs means, I think, their welfare institutions represent 39 percent of all crown deaths. So we're champions again. The death penalty champions. And then you'll say that everything is fine and that the Minister is not responsible at all. Instead of taking responsibility for fatal errors in such sad and horrifying statistics, we are reading today the entire day of official government tweets, which are collapsing with lies with evidence and statistics supported by facts. As with tweeting, for example, you say that it is not true that the ministry run by the Minister had no hearing for social dialogue. Of course it was, it wasn't! You are lied to by a number of publications, calls and letters from trade unions regarding the lack of social dialogue and the non-involvement of workers' representatives in drafting anti-Korona legislation, for example. It is clear from all these publications that the Minister of Negotiations did not participate at all in the negotiations, that he had sent teams without any mandate, that the coalition had breached prior arrangements during the procedure alone, and that the Government had intervened in labour law without any consultation with the trade unions. And worst of all, the unions have said that without social dialogue, the Government has reached into the Labour Relations Act when forced retirement was introduced through the NSI party in Parliament. That kind of thing. That's when the minister's unions called for a resignation. Justifiably. Did he give up? Of course not. Just as he will not give up today, he will not answer the key questions today because he does not need to. It's important to him that he has his own votes. Where's the conscience? Where is the sanctity of life here that advocates it? Is the sanctity of life only when we talk about abortion, or is life sacred even when it comes to elderly people who died needlessly in nursing homes? So without answers in such serious matters — shame! I'm sure I'll press the button right now so we can interpret this minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word has Alice Jeraj, prepare Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. We've already said a lot, but things still need to be looked back a little bit, because because of these things that haven't been done in the past, we were in trouble last year when the epidemic started. My predecessors have already said that the last state home of older citizens was built in 2008, someone said in the time of fat cows, you didn't do anything. That's not true. During the period 2005-2008, five homes and twelve concessions were built during the first Janša government period. On this basis, we now have about 53 public and 41 concessional homes. My colleague Koprivc said that this was because they were problems, because then Janša’s government decided to focus on concessions and that it was a mistake. Now, if this was a mistake, you could have removed it, because then for ten years you almost ran this resort; you had Minister Svetlik, you had Minister Mrakovo, and you could have arranged it, and you spent money on studies, how we would manage the care of the elderly, and you did nothing. No home, no demographic fund, no long-term care law, which we should have by law. Very little money was used for renovations, for arranging the homes of the elderly. Years ago, I was president of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, including the President of the Committee on Health, and we also visited many of the public DSOs, where the roofs were clogged, cracks in the walls, poor sealing of windows and so on, but there was no money for this, so many public homes are in very poor condition. We change that by spending more money. Some of you said only money wouldn't save anything. Not everything, but a lot of things. It's easy to work with an unlimited bag. It is true, however, that in half a year new doctors, missing nurses, and so on. You guys used to say the government slept over the summer, which it doesn't. It provided additional money and 541 new employees in the homes of older citizens. Tell me when we've done this in the last ten years in half a year, 500 new people to their homes. You don't remember that because it wasn't there, of course. Now you're saying nothing happened when it happened. We have one big problem that these homes have become practically nursing hospitals in recent years. As has already been said, 50 to 60 people were immobile in the DSOs, today there are 80 to 90 percent of them, which means that these people need care after the operation, and that is why we need nursing hospitals, and this government has set up to make regional nursing hospitals, so when it comes from some intensive care in the hospital when it is no longer needed, it can put such a person in a nursing hospital, which is a health facility. Because we now have a problem talking about DSOs, the homes of older citizens who are social institutions, but in fact they are health institutions, because many of these people need medical care, nurses, and we have social workers in the homes, and so on, and not enough health personnel to have. And that's what this government does. The plan is for regional care hospitals, which will then be for practically patient accommodations, and for older people in nursing homes, we will have older people who are suitable for a home, not for a nursing hospital. It was also said why no additional space had been built or made in six months. Look, this isn't working. The minister said they've acquired some extra capacity, but you can't build what we haven't done in ten years and it's been waiting. In this way it is not possible to provide additional space. A colleague of Sukič's is a river, why we didn't put it in the hotels. The minister said why not in the hotels; because they are on the floor of the tapestry, you can't disinfect, you can't clean, you can't lift, or if they're lifts, you can't take the bed in, because they're not big enough to carry the patients up and down, and so on. Something can be done, something cannot be done, and it is necessary to listen. A constant observation of why people weren't sent to hospitals. If someone went to the hospital, the doctor and the doctor were to know whether someone was in hospital or not, or if someone had an associated illness, and so on, if they were to drive him to the hospital with an ambulance, he might die on the way. That's for the doctor to decide, not for the directors of the nursing home to decide, but for the doctor to say. And to help doctors were those lists that you named death lists, which is terrible because at some point more doctors were needed and it wasn't just that home doctor who knew these people more or less because they were worried about them all the time, but they came to help others, and so they needed basic data, whether someone was healthy enough or able to take him to the hospital, whether it was just extra stress for him and maybe an acceleration to actually say goodbye to life. This distraction by taking everyone to the hospital; see, the doctor tells who goes to the hospital and if they can help him there, otherwise it doesn't make sense. Many of these people were already in a palliative state because of the associated diseases and other diseases they had, in view of the fact that they were practically just before saying good - bye to this world. It has already been said that we have a number of older inhabitants, that we are one of the oldest nations in the world, and this has also prompted the large number of covidal deaths to be among the elderly. We should discuss such matters as to how we will handle these matters and how we will improve this situation. It has already been said that more houses are planned than in the last three governments: 5 new homes, 11 concessions have now been awarded, another bid will be for a thousand more beds, we are spending 30 million in the next two, three years to do at least some of this. But you need to know that Europe does not support institutional protection, so home, but wants people to be in smaller units, so that we don't lock them in some institution, so there is no European money available for these purposes when it is said that we should do it. In short, we work, not only do we talk and do various studies, but we work. This team is effective and it bothers you because many of you fell into politics one month before the elections, went to a campaign without programs, no plans, no visions. This team led by Janez Jaša has a vision, has plans, has a program, knows what Slovenia needs, and does so. Therefore, I will not support the interpolation that Minister Janez Cigler King as a member of this effective team will continue to work successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u179	Thank you very much. A replica? Comrade Koprivc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, now you've finally admitted the point. It is not a trend to build new large homes, but to invest in adapting suitable spaces, smaller housing units for these older people, and this has been invested very much in the last period. Now you've admitted that it's not just about how many homes it's made and how many it's not. And secondly, you repeated this lie about 74 million that was supposed to be put into some study. This is what Minister Anja Kopač Dark is supposed to file. This information does not hold up and please, Minister, to confirm it. Third, Mrs Bojana Muršič asked earlier what is the matter with the long-term care law. You didn't answer that either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u181	Okay. Thank you very much. That was more of an answer than a replica. The word is Luke the Moon. One minute and one more thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I've been sitting here for hours and listening to this debate, and I'm essentially surprised by the ease with which we accept it, the unbearable ease with which we accept the facts before us. We don't talk here, like someone said before me, who does, makes mistakes and makes mistakes from pure statistics. We don't talk about any mistakes anymore. We talk about the fact that in Slovenia there are 20,000 people in homes for the elderly, 11 thousand of whom have been infected with the Coronavirus, and two thousand have died. So, two thousand people died in nursing homes, which is that 1 out of every 10 residents of the home for the elderly died from the mistakes of this government and from the mistakes of the minister who is being intertwined today. This did not happen, as we hear, because we have the oldest population in Europe, which is not at all true. France, Greece, Portugal and so on, eight countries have an older population ahead of us. And even if you had the oldest population, it wouldn't have anything to do with it because it didn't happen because of age, but because you let the virus into the nursing home. You weren't just warned by an expert group. Now I have sought the initiative that we gave in Levica on 14 April last year, we have asked you to protect vulnerable groups, led by residents of the home for the elderly and there introduce frequent testing, move the sick out, provide health care, increase capacities and so on. And it took a while – watch out for that! – until December 9th that you even introduced the test. That's why people died, not because we had the oldest population in Europe, but because you say they don't go to hotels. They could also be moved to hospitals if they had the will and ability [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the representative of the motioner of interpretation will be given the floor. The word is given by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u184	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members! First of all, thank you all very much for the good debate. At times, perhaps, as some Members and Members have found, inappropriate and perhaps too much on a personal level, but the vast majority of the debaters have clearly highlighted the areas covered by the obvious four points of interpretation. I estimate that with a written response to the interpolation, and today also with a few interventions within two and a half hours, I have responded with a reasoned response to the impressions in the interpolation. Since 13 March 2020, the Ministry of Labour team has taken responsibility for the management of this ministry in very difficult situations and has faced the immediate resolution of the outbreaks in older people's homes, much has been done. In particular, we focused on protecting the most vulnerable, following orders and the proposed actions of the expert advisory group of the Ministry of Health, which is also responsible for the health care of the elderly, and in this way we have done everything in an extremely difficult situation. Anything that was possible in this situation to protect the most vulnerable. In the field of the labour market, we have taken a number of measures to respond and mitigate the consequences of the labour market, the main focus, the main priority has been to preserve jobs and together with you, honourable Members and Members, and all other stakeholders, including the Economic and Social Council, we have kept them nearly 300,000. Almost 300,000 jobs! This is not only about the number of jobs, but it is about all the employees who have been kept in these places. We are now working hard on this, and this is our responsibility to prepare a good exit strategy so that after this difficult time we can move on to the normal functioning of the labour market. It will not be easy, by no means, so this is an even greater challenge for both the Ministry of Labour team, the Ministry of the Economy, all the rest of the government team. The third point referred to the invitation to tender for vulnerable groups. With an acute response to the epidemic in nursing homes, with the establishment of strategic foundations for the quality of long-term care delivery in the near, medium and long-term future, I am also involved in the preparation of the Long-Term Care Act, and in the Ministry, as early as March, we also communicated publicly that we are aware that the next psychosocial crisis is a health crisis and that we will respond to it quickly and effectively. The call for assistance for vulnerable groups in distress due to the epidemic was the first of its kind, resulting from the efforts of the SVRK and the Ministry of Labour. It has also been the result of the fact that the European Commission has actually made it possible to redirect funds from a financial perspective. And the team I'm leading, I'm proud of, has managed to divert €2 million into programmes to alleviate the pressures of those most affected by the epidemic. This call for 17 non-governmental organisations have been selected with different programmes and can already run these programmes. As I have pointed out many times before, the purpose of the call was to help those affected by the epidemic and its consequences, as far as possible to the wider spectrum of these people, the widest possible spectrum of these people. In fact, I am grateful that this call also raised a question that is much broader than this call or from the Ministry, namely, the issue of tolerance, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, opinion and dialogue in that country. I have also seen some issues concerning social dialogue. I have presented with the data the progress of social dialogue in these difficult situations. I am grateful to the social partners that we have all come together to understand the importance of the moment and the situation in which we found ourselves at the beginning of the CAP1 and PKP2 without the established Economic and Social Council, and we have also set up and started to work within as many normal frameworks as possible; we have also put in place a protocol for the adoption of intervention legislation, because we are all aware together that this legislation must be adopted quickly and efficiently and that, in fact, we are also coordinating too many professional or legislative proposals with the various negotiating, working and professional groups, which will also be adopted in the future at the meetings of the National Assembly. I thank you for finding out together, and this is one basis for our future work, that the state of long-term care in Slovenia has been neglected in the past good decade, I can also say neglected that this is wrong and that this team has shown a vision for long-term care and that we are already doing it, we are already taking steps. If this is one confirmation, I believe that you will trust us that this vision for long-term care, for a more lively and fairer social and family legislation and for a more responsive labour market also after the epidemic, that I will also be able to carry out this vision with my colleagues in the future within this government, while we are also awaiting the Presidency of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Jerco Korča also has the floor. Procedural? [[Yeah.]] Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Parliament's work at night is not normal. We're not in a war state. There is yet another interpolation waiting for us, which after the schedule is due to delay early in the morning and is expected to last even longer than today’s meeting. That's not normal. We are also Members only of the people, and this night work, of course, also harms health and psyche. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, that you extend the intervention against the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, for two days, from 9 a.m. to 21 p.m. and the next day from 9 a.m. to the end. I would also suggest that you convene the College of the President of the Council of State on this subject and correct the timetable for the meeting that will begin next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u187	Thank you very much. It's been brought to your attention. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Jerz Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Without a doubt, I can conclude that all our eyewitnesses who have been immersed in interpolation have proved to be practical to the facts through today's debate. Simply because the minister failed to object or answer with arguments or if you want to prove that it is not in keeping. Moreover, today we received confirmation that the minister knew the requests, he knew the warnings. Apparently, he also read the letters. He responded only with proposals that were not feasible and even said that he knew the inability to go home and the situation. He stayed with that famous September sentence that there would be no new measures — and that was the rest. So obviously, Minister, you've considered all the months, both summer and all winter, because you didn't act. Your explanations about the years of neglect at home that we've heard today seem, at least, to me, hypocritical. They're just an excuse and an attempt to conceal their own fiasco, and this is a very bad attempt. And once again, Minister, I tell you that we can act, but you are not; and excuses about the past do not bind you to responsibility for the conduct of the present. I also gave you dates today. Your colleagues and I have confronted you with your words, and we have listed the consequences, the arguments. The cause-effect arc is not only sketched, but today proven and unfortunately unturned. Undoubtedly we can say that infections would be less, in fact inappropriate, if, as Minister, they were to adapt the labour legislation adequately and prevent the spread of the virus in the workplace, but you did not do so. You were allowing the opposite. And if today the power of arguments was in this Chamber of Democracy, Members would see that there were no such arguments on your part. Indeed, we have heard many accounts of what was divided and what was to be done. We haven't heard anything about the apparent homelessness on the second wave. No arguments. There was no answer why the minister insisted on the impossible and why he did not provide external units. At least we didn't get a convincing answer. There was no answer as to why he did not listen to the government’s expert advisory group when introducing the tests or why he delayed and waited. And the days or months of the epidemic and the spread of infections are decisive or, as recorded in the Community of Social Institutions, "delivery is needed today, not in a week". That was their answer, if you remember the minister when you told them, we'll sit down next week, we'll sit down and talk next week. And you were told that solutions are needed today, not in a week. And that was a fact during the time of dealing with the virus or in those most difficult times. There was no answer to why you did not take care of legislation in the area of payment of compensation. Why different heights? Why were workers punished instead of being stimulated by workers and employers? And in this work, the workers agreed that this part should be saved, but it wasn't. There were no answers, no arguments, no explanations, Mr. Secretary. When I listen constantly, even today, by the coalition, how we somehow interfere with some heavy tools and waste time with interpolation – I think the opposite. In the face of such acts as this government is doing, with such practices that leave such severe consequences, the interpolation is the minimum that the opposition must use. However, it is a fact that you do not have the standards for taking political responsibility. They were in the past. In the past, political responsibility did not mean that someone is a bad person, but it meant that this man is a man with a spine who is aware that by assuming his office he assumes responsibility for the management of the department, responsibility for his actions and responsibility for the decision and management of the republic of Slovenia, and that respect for the State, respect for the Constitution, respect for democracy, that these are not just words, but that it also requires a person's personal awareness of what political responsibility is and when the mistakes are too severe and should be taken over. And the honourable Minister, on the basis of everything that has been said today throughout the entire debate and on the basis of what you have not said today, this responsibility should be taken over by you. Not that we have to invite you to do so, but that the coalition, or majority of you in this national assembly, will defend you, not because it has heard arguments and judged that it is right or wrong, but because it will preserve its own chair and its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-18-SDZ8-Izredna-66.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate on interpolation and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, shall express its non-trust to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King and shall dismiss him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 66th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
