ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 72nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Yuri Lepi until 2 p.m., Felice Žiža, Franz Jurša and Mag. Dušan Verbich. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 72nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 May 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 72nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is firstly the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, Management and Economics with the second indent of the Railway Line of the wildlings. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. With regard to this bill, a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The story of the second track is a thing that stretches for almost two decades. A story that somehow received a kind of epilogue in 2017 when a decision was taken at the time of the Cerara government to actually build this second track. However, this decision has also been accompanied by a slight problem, which is that a provision has also been introduced in the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second track, which allows foreign countries to enter the ownership structure of 2TKK, which manages the second track, and thus also sets out on our Slovenian railway infrastructure. At that time, this option was introduced; the second indent, if fully implemented, could become the only part of the Slovenian railway infrastructure which would be co-owned by a foreign country. At that time, negotiations with Hungary to join the 2TKK were also launched until the government of Marjan Šarc, when the then Infrastructure Minister decided that this matter could be done differently, so that the financial structure could be closed without the entry of foreign capital. And so it was finally adopted, confirmed in the guarantee law for the construction of the second track, and we all thought that at this point this thing was over. But it wasn't like that. There's been a change of government. On 3 March 2020, the mandate for the composition of the new government was given to a friend of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán Janez Janša, and less than a month after the government's oath, indications began that the negotiations with Hungary would start again and that it is seriously back in the game of a scenario whereby foreign countries would enter into the ownership structure of 2TKK. This, if we look at what the content of this initiative is, of course, pure madness and nonsense. In addition to the fact that the contribution of 200 million that this foreign country would bring would, of course, have to be reimbursed by 2TKK during the time of the contract, of course part of the profit. It is intended to provide logistical transactions for Hungarian companies and – what is likely to be the key for the whole story – at least 30,000 square metres of capacity within the state spatial plan for a port with the possibility even within the port Koper concession area. Those who are involved in logistics and are familiar with logistics, I will say, almost unanimously point out that this is a key threat to the entry of a foreign country into 2TKK and, of course, to the extension of the port of Koper. It's a matter of national interests, if you want. It is a question of how the Slovenian economy will recover after this epidemic. These are the capacities that Luka Koper needs, so far the Slovenian port, the capacities that enable its development and expansion, and the commitment to provide such a large amount of space within the port of Koper in some long-term rental would, of course, be pointless, and, above all, very likely also from the point of view of how Luke Koper can continue to develop, you know, and consequently the entire Slovenian economy. For this reason, we are proposing a simple solution in the law, that is to delete the possibility of a foreign country entering 2TKK. Finally, let me point out that the reasons are quite clear. As it is said, the financial structure is closed, the funds for this and next year are already provided in the budgets and the government has not changed that either. Additional EU funds are also available, including within the Recovery and Development Mechanism. In order to reduce the financial structure by a level of 200 million, it is said that this contribution made by a foreign country, from 1.2 billion to billion, and if it is necessary to provide additional sources of funding – and the President of the Government himself insists on this – currently loans or bonds in international financial markets are cheaper than the type proposed. Thus, this law proposes to exclude this possibility and to prevent in this way the damage that such entry could cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, for an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, other distinguished guests! The Government adopted an opinion on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the second indent law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovec. The proposal proposes in particular the removal of the possibility of other countries entering the ownership structure of 2TKK and resulting in their participation in financing the construction of the second railway track of Divaca Koper. The government opposes the bill. The second indent law lays down in detail the conditions for the participation of the shareholders. This cooperation is envisaged only as an option and the legal conditions must be met to apply this option. The purpose of the regulation is therefore not to open the door wide to foreign investments in the second indent, but to precisely regulate the conditions of financial cooperation, thereby limiting the effects of cooperation and reducing the unpredictability of the consequences of different interests on the functioning of the company and the second indent in the long term of concession. It is therefore important fuses, which are activated only if the State chooses to cooperate with another country. The second track project is one of the most investment-intensive state projects; its implementation will reach almost a billion euros. If, however, an interested investor were to appear under strict conditions of cooperation, it would be at least an economical and irresponsible opportunity to at least verify such an opportunity in the interests of Slovenia, its citizens and public finances. The proposed amendment would definitively close the door to a strategic partnership with another country, which could have a number of positive effects, in particular due to the later supply of demand for both the second track and the services of the port of Cyprus. The return on capital referred to by the applicants is neither and cannot be guaranteed, so the potential investor would consciously take the risk. Therefore, this contribution cannot be compared to a loan in the sense that it is an expensive loan. It is only possible to make a profit. According to the investment programme, payment is expected only in 2059, only in the event of a successful or operational period of the project. Nor will carriers of another country have the advantage of assigning train paths. This is already prohibited by EU legislation. In addition, the train paths will not be assigned by 2TKK, but by the operator of the second track. Finally, the second indent law does not mention any links or conditions relating to the strategic cooperation of a potential partner in relation to Luka Koper, which is why such references do not have a serious basis. The possibility of purchasing land mentioned is provided only as a possibility of repurchase, of course at market price and under the procedure governed by the Real Estate Act, i.e. in a competitive procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the proposed supplement whereby the company is to be fully committed to the provision of information of a public nature. 2TKK is already committed to accessing information of a public nature and, like other companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia, is obliged to provide access to contracts concluded and information relating to the appointment and receipt of members of the management and supervisory board. Any derogation from the rules applicable to companies could cause economic damage to the company. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SNS Group of Members, the position will be presented by Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u6	Nice hello to you all! The second line of the Divača– Koper railway line is the most important, both geostrategic and economic project for the Republic of Slovenia. We would like to point out that the second track of Divaca– Koper is actually a project involving the whole of Slovenia. It is a project with significant provisions, social and economic impacts that are necessary for the development of the economy and the integration not only of the region, but of our countries as a whole. The project, which should have been implemented 20 years ago, will put Slovenia in the very port-logistic summit of Europe. More than two years ago, that was 21. 3. 2019, we had here in the National Assembly a public presentation of opinions on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divača– Koper railway line. It was organised by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent working body to deal with transport infrastructure and rail transport. Construction of the second track will help to re-engage the port – not the port, is the Slovenian port of Koper. For Slovenia and its brighter economic future, it is high time for the project to be carried out as it is. Of course, we also wish in the SNS that the strategically important infrastructure would be fully in Slovenian state hands without any foreigners. This would be controlled by Slovenia and not by any other foreign country, but it is more than obvious that our country in previous governments has not been able to carry out such a project alone. However, in all this matter, it is important that we or the Republic of Slovenia clearly lay down the conditions for cooperation with foreign opposing countries. However, given that this is one of the most important projects in the history of Slovenia and that it should have been done a long time ago, the project must be carried out from the present state to the end. As we know, the previous governments have had many more opportunities in the past to do so and have done almost nothing. Now they are full of mouths, how this must be in national hands, although they themselves were not able to handle the matter with investors, let alone without them. In the event that we already have a foreign country as a partner, Hungarians are certainly a good partner because of their geostrategic position and logistical connections, so the amendment no longer has anything to object to. Perhaps we would like to see things stop again and wait another 20 years, or we will not have another track at all. The connection between Budapest and Koper is a window in the world for the Hungarian industry, which will make the infrastructure functional in a specific plan, which will definitely have a positive impact on the Slovenian economy. We could get a foreign investor who wouldn't be geostrategic about the project, but would treat Slovenian infrastructure as just any other financial investment, which I hope we don't want. Of course, there are also problems and problems in the implementation of the project itself. After the tracks, trains will be driven to a speed of 160 kilometers per hour, and after the end of this new route, they will reach a distance of 27 miles [80 km] per hour. Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not go to the project by driving trains 160 kilometers all the time, including from Divaca to Kopra? All members of the Slovenian National Party have been warning about this all the time, but not that the speed is decreasing. This has an extremely negative impact on overall logistics. This is what you are asked by Members and is recalled by the Slovenian national parties. Next, a two-tier connection, where trains would not reduce speed, however, for Slovenian logistics is necessary and necessary. We still don't understand why they're not doing both tracks together, but every track for themselves. It is said that one ends and then machines go back to working another track – look, this is simply funny what is happening in our country – so that we can pull two tracks at once and thereby significantly improve productivity and also efficiency. Time is also money, although many unfortunately do not know it well enough. The material is so visible that one tube, then another, will be made; in short, gradually. Really funny, although I have repeatedly pointed out that we could suddenly build two tracks, which would be, once again, even more cost-effective. The Koper-Divač connection does not represent only those 27 kilometers, but it affects the relationship with Europe as a whole. In the east, through Budapest to Ukraine, as well as to the Russian market. In the west, it has an impact on Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and southern Germany, which uses the port of Koper to export cars to Asia. And why do we even need Collector as an intermediary who does not have a direct contract with contractors, so that implementation would be significantly cheaper? Invitations to different jobs, such as drivers of heavy construction mechanisms, have also been published late for the project, indicating disorganisation in a project as important as this. From the World Wide Web, it is clear that through Adec, waiters and other workers are looking for different profiles. As an interesting thing to mention, at the end of the 19th century, Austria designed a line from Austria through the Slovenian Konjic to the Croatian border, where it limited the construction of the project to just four years. How is it possible that at that time the project was limited to such a short period of time, and we have been dragging this story out of the way for so long? In view of how some governments have dealt with investments so far, we rightly fear in the Slovenian National Party that there will be no second track, but, if so, with much delay, the additional costs and benefits of some of the moguls. Last but not least, this can be seen by the first wall that was extremely expensive but unalterable for the conditions of rail infrastructure. And finally, a little bit of fun, a little for real. I believe that most Members of the Slovenian TV series, as well as the Slovenian TV series, will not mention any of them, but I have the feeling that the construction of the second track is still going on as described in the film. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divacá Koper Railway. With the first signed by Dr. Matey Tašner Vatovec, the applicants have submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of Divac–Koper, with a proposal for a law, eliminate the possibility of other countries entering the ownership structure of 2TKK. Slovenia can, in their view, only by borrowing a loan and by means of European funds, be able to build a second track rather than by participating in Hungary, which expects up to 3 % of the return on this investment. It assesses that the entry of foreign capital for the second indent is unacceptable and unnecessary. Hungary would thus become co-owner and co-owner of strategic infrastructure for the next 45 years by participating in profits, related transactions and spatial capacity near the port of Cyprus. The proposer proposes repealing the provision allowing another country to enter the ownership structure of 2TKK and supplementing Article 8 with a provision whereby 2TKK would be fully obliged to provide information of a public nature. In the SDS, we believe that the construction of the second track of Divac – Koper is one of the most important investments for Slovenia. The second track puts Slovenia in an even better position than before. It's a big breakthrough for our country. The second track, both domestically and internationally, represents an important part of rail transport and links with other hinter countries. Article 5 of the current Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the Second Railway Route of Divac– Koper lays down the conditions to be met for the participation of shareholders. The strict conditions prevent the majority ownership of a foreign shareholder by keeping the majority owner of the Republic of Slovenia in any case. So the second track is one of the most investment-intensive state projects. The second track project must follow the modern European financing of large infrastructure projects. Such a financing model is a constant practice in Austria, Germany, Denmark and elsewhere. In Slovenia, however, it is used for the first time in the second track project. First of all, it must burden taxpayers to the very least and at the same time allow for the simultaneous financing of other important development projects from the State budget. In the coming years, 2TKK should focus on efficient transparent use of allocated funds, as well as on optimising the financial structure. The SDS Group will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac– Koper Railway, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Matey Tašnerev Vatovci. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Paulič will present the position of Mr Marjan Šarc's delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u10	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing a proposal for a new Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac– Koper Railway. The novelty supported by the parties to the real opposition is a response to the adopted initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to conclude an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on cooperation in the construction of a second track. We propose deleting the content of the articles which provide a legal basis for the entry of foreign shareholders into the ownership structure of the project company 2TKK. In the LMŠ Group of Members, we are convinced that Slovenia does not need assistance in the construction of a second track, either in Hungary or in any other icy country. We would like to highlight the following. Despite the fact that the current legal regime allows for such participation by foreign countries, the circumstances today differ significantly from those of February 2018 when Hungary was first referred to as its participation in the construction of the second track. During the previous government, i.e. the governments of Marjana Sarca, activities were carried out between August 2018 and December 2019 which led to the closure of the financing structure of the Divača-Koper railway project, without the cooperation of the hinter countries. I repeat, the funds for construction have been provided. The Government, with its intention to conclude a so-called agreement with Hungary on the construction and management of the second track, inter alia, hereby substantiates that this would mean a lower burden on Slovenian taxpayers. The latter would be welcome, even in the times of the coming deficit and lower economic growth due to the consequences of the epidemic, but such expectations are far from reality. Hungary's financial contribution will not only have to be paid back, but we will also make a substantial overpayment. Of course, I am talking about the apparent concern of the Government for Slovenian taxpayers, we would like to hear, say, in the preparation of the Investments Act in the Slovenian Army, where the financial consequences for more than three times exceed the value of Hungary's second indent. The investment would be significantly more costly than in the case of own funding under conditions such as those set out in the cooperation initiative with the Republic of Slovenia, even at the expense of additional indebtedness, as Slovenia owes even at a negative interest rate if I sum up the words of the Minister of Finance. In the event of Hungary's entry, therefore, it would be a very expensive loan. In addition to the reimbursement of the basic financial contribution, Hungary will be entitled to participate in the profit. We are talking about an annual return of up to 3% of the company's core capital. During the entire concession period, Hungary’s share of profits would amount to EUR 270 million, which would result in a second-track project being undermined by this amount, and we point out in the LMŠ. What is the second reason why the Government excuses Hungarian participation? Strategic and logistical cooperation is intended to ensure a high level of demand for rail, port and logistics services. Why, how, how, on what assumptions? Of course, this government document does not contain this. It does not contain because logistics flows are not made by the state, but by companies that adapt speed, efficiency and, of course, prices to demand for logistics services. The fact is that such a partnership with any Western country would put us in an independent position towards a foreign country that would have an impact on our strategic infrastructure. This is nothing more than a cheap sale of our country, which we strongly oppose in the LMŠ. Let us ask ourselves whether, if the situation were reversed, Hungary would agree to such conditions in its territory. Therefore, in the LMŠ Group, we appeal to the competent government decision makers that the second-tier project for which the Republic of Slovenia has all the necessary financial resources to build should not become a hostage of appetites which are not in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, today we will vote in favour of the amendment of the law and thus to preserve the geostrategic interest of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divača– Koper railway line entered into force only on 21 July 2018. The reason for this was the implementation of the legislative referendum, which, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, was repeated and ultimately failed. The proposal was prepared and coordinated during the time of the government of Mir Cerar and continued under the government team of Marjan Šarc. Throughout the process of coordinating and enacting the law, social democrats have had concerns and reservations about the role of the behind countries in the construction, management and management of the second track. In the position we had when the law was adopted, we made it clear at that time that the content of marriage is far from what we Social Democrats wanted. This is what we think today, because we believe that a better solution is in the form of a partnership between the State, Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways, because such a form of partnership would be more time-effective, cheaper and, above all, more stable. However, because we were aware that the second track is essential for maintaining and continuing the growth and development of the logistics sector in Slovenia, despite the law of Slovenian folklore and the custom of throwing pollen under our knees, we did not oppose. In the coalition agreement, the former government stated that it would continue negotiations with the Länder and explore the possibility that the second track would be financed without the participation of other or Länder, and that it would take into account only the possibility that Slovenia would benefit from it. Unfortunately, the current government does not take that into account. With an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on cooperation in the construction and management of the second railway track Divaca– Koper, the project was overpaid by 100 million, according to the former Minister of Infrastructure. Encouragement, however, is not the only reason or effect that follows. We welcome the proposal for a law that Members and Members will have a debate today in the Group of Social Democrats. The objectives and solutions proposed go in the direction we are and are still defending. It is also important to reduce the direct and indirect costs of financing the construction and operation of the second track, and most importantly, the railway connection Divac – Koper and the management company 2TKK remain 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. The aims of the Second Tier Defence Act against Orbán's Hungary, which we have proposed in Levica today, are two: for the first time, that the strategic railway infrastructure on the second track section of Koper-Divača is maintained in 100 % of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, and for the second time to reduce the direct and indirect costs of financing the construction and operation of the second track. The amendment of this law is necessary. The Janševa government adopted an initiative last November to conclude an agreement between Slovenia and Hungary, with which it will sell almost half of the ownership of 2TKK to its eastern neighbours under the leadership of the fascist dictator Viktor Orbán. The company is responsible for the construction and subsequent management of the second track and will be sold to Janša's good friend, a business partner of the ruling SDS. The ruling coalition has, of course, confirmed the initiative to conclude an agreement on the Committee on Foreign Policy and the negotiations with Hungary are well under way. The only way to prevent sales is by amending the law which will prevent foreign countries from entering the ownership structure of 2TKK. We proposed something similar in Levica at the time of the initial adoption of the law under the government of Mir Cerar. We were not heard, although it was immediately clear that Hungary wanted to take advantage of the construction of the second track. The whole argument for the privatisation of the second track from the very beginning stems from the notion that construction is too expensive, so Slovenia is said to be unable to sell its own share of 2TKK and the whole project would be cheap. None of these guys are holding up! If we start by assuming that the second track for Slovenia is too expensive an investment. Initially, construction is expected to cost poor 1.2 billion euros. Well, between the adoption of the law and today, the value of the project has fallen by almost 200 million euros, or just as much as the Hungarian contribution is envisaged. As early as November 2018, Viktor Orbán unilaterally withdrew from the negotiations for Hungary's participation in the construction of the second track after the Government withdrew the secrecy marks from the negotiating documents. From these documents it became clear that Hungary had promised almost 3% return on capital invested and 43 million euros in public procurement related to construction. Following Hungary's unilateral resignation, the then Minister of Infrastructure stated that, under such conditions as Hungary had requested, Orbán would never have released a foreign investor into his country and that the cost of building a second track with Hungary would be, I quote, “some hundred million more expensive than if we built it ourselves”. And you can! We can build the second track on our own. We've got enough money, it's been secured under the previous government. These budget lines have never been changed by the government of Janez Janša. Even if the funds in the budgets were not provided, there is no shortage of money in the country, only the government of Janez Janša throws it out the window. By 2026 alone, NATO plans to spend €780 million on weapons that Slovenia does not need. Compared to the Hungarian contribution to the construction of the second track, it is said that the money that Slovenia allegedly does not have is only 200 million euros or less than half of what Jansa and Tonin intend to spend in the coming years only on armoured personnel. Slovenia therefore does not lack or pay for the construction of the second track, as the final price of the project would be undermined. But it's so much more profitable for Orbán's Hungary. The conclusion of the agreement provides for a 3 % return on Hungarian capital invested, and Hungary will also have an additional 30 000 square metres in the area of the port of Koper, if necessary within the concession area. Assuming that the return on capital invested during the period of the concession period would be only 0.8%, Slovenia would pay an additional EUR 53 million of dividends in addition to the refund of the original deposit, if the return of EUR 115 million would be 2%, but an even higher yield of 3% would be expected. Above all, this same government, which sells Slovenian infrastructure to Orbanov Hungary under such favourable conditions, rejects the more cost-effective funding it could receive from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. And this is done with the pretext that, at present, international financial markets can be indebted even cheaper than at negative rates. The sale of almost half of Hungary’s second track therefore makes no sense to Slovenia and is pointless both financially and strategically. But what makes no sense, even harmful to Slovenia, is not necessarily harmful and pointless to the ruling SDS. It is absurd that in 2017 SDS strongly opposed the adoption of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac– Koper Railway. She even demolished it at the referendum; today she is very happy to be implementing this law herself. It even went so far as to drag Hungary back into the sales negotiations more than a year after Hungary had already withdrawn from them. After all the building funds have already been made available in the budgets and after the project's value has been reduced by almost 200 million euros in just the last two years! We cannot get rid of the feeling that the whole story is not as much about the business between Hungary and Slovenia as it is about tied trade and lobbying between the current Slovenian and Hungarian ruling parties or related companies. It is not for the first time in our history that the extreme right of the country and its inhabitants is revved to the fate of the country and its inhabitants, because more than sovereignty, democracy and development is the sense of national betrayal and corruption that goes with it; and yes, the sale of another track borders on national betrayal. This judgment may be difficult, but it is true. For the first time, because the money for construction in the state budget has already been provided by the previous government, the budget lines for the construction of the second track have not changed under this government with any rebalancing. Secondly, because Slovenia can build a second track alone without Hungarian participation because the conditions of borrowing on international markets are more favourable than the conditions under which Hungary would enter the ownership structure of 2TKK. Remember, a year and a half ago, the National Assembly even passed a special law on State guarantees for the second track. Thirdly, simply because the sale of strategic infrastructure to other countries also means the sale of part of sovereignty. The proposal for a law proposed in Levica is yet another way to prevent the harmful sale of the second track to Viktor Orbán in order to protect the fundamental infrastructure sovereignty of Slovenia and the interests of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divača Railway Coper, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mate Vatovec, proposes in particular the abolition of the possibility of other countries entering the ownership structure of 2TKK and, consequently, the abolition of their participation in financing the construction of the second track of the Divača- Koper Railway. The applicants further state that the entry of foreign capital is unacceptable and unnecessary, since they believe that the second track would have passed into the co-ownership of another country for at least 45 years, thereby impeding the effective management of strategic infrastructure in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. They also assess that, in the case of financial cooperation from another country, the Republic of Slovenia would provide a high capital return by means of budgetary resources and revenue from state-owned enterprises, which would be significantly more expensive than if it provided additional capital on its own. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the proposal of the law that the law only lays down the conditions for the participation of members of society. This cooperation is envisaged only as an option and the following conditions must be met to apply this option. First time. Financial cooperation can only be achieved by means of a business share in a company which is an investor of the second indent, i.e. 2TKK. Another time. Only the Member State or Member States of the European Union can acquire this share of the business. Third time. The share of shareholders in the core capital of 2TKK may not be achieved or exceeded by the share of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourth time. The terms of cooperation shall be determined by an interstate agreement, which shall also be ratified by the National Assembly. As the Secretary of State has already said before me, the purpose of the existing law is not to open the door wide to foreign investments in the second indent, but to regulate precisely the terms of such financial cooperation. It is therefore important fuses which are activated only if the Republic of Slovenia chooses to cooperate with another Member State at all. The second track project is one of the most investment-intensive state projects, which will reach almost a billion euros, as we have already heard today. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the proposed amendment of the law could definitively close the door to a strategic partnership with another country, which could have many positive effects, in particular due to subsequent demand, not least on other parts of the Slovenian rail network and services of the port of Koper. It is quite clear that there is no return on capital and cannot be guaranteed, and any potential investor should consciously take a certain risk. Likewise, carriers of another country will not have a guaranteed advantage in assigning train paths, since this is already prohibited by European Union legislation. In addition, the train paths will not be awarded by 2TKK and the company of Slovenian Railways - Infrastructure, which will be the operator of the second track. The existing law also does not mention any links or conditions relating to the strategic cooperation of a potential partner with respect to Luka Koper, which is why such references in the draft law do not have the right basis. The proposed amendments to the law also propose that 2TKK should be fully committed to the provision of information of a public nature. Let me stress that 2TKK is already committed to accessing information of a public nature and is, like other companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia, obliged to provide access to contracts concluded, since any derogation from the rules applicable to companies could cause damage to 2TKK. Because of all of this, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today we are discussing, as it appears, still a very topic in recent years, this is the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača– Koper railway. The new Levice proposal would have already prevented participation in the second track project to other countries and would have deprived Slovenia of potential long-term strategic cooperation and prevented a more favourable distribution of the financial risks associated with such a complex infrastructure investment. The proposal would thus not only result in the loss of the financial contribution of the potential co-investor, but also in the withdrawal of a strategic partner that would in future provide a constant demand for the use of the infrastructure under consideration, including Luka Koper. In the SMC Group, we are not in favour of the bill, since we are convinced from the very beginning of our cooperation in the preparation of this project that the possible integration of the behind countries into the project scheme would be welcome both from a financial and a strategic point of view. In this way, our country would transfer a certain part of the financial risk associated with investment to the spindle partner countries. In this regard, it also seems important to stress that the future partner countries are not guaranteed in advance, but, in the event of cooperation, these countries would also be exposed to the uncertainties associated with the economic performance of the project. With the potential integration of the hinter countries into the project, it has a European dimension. We follow European guidelines with such a financial structure and set a good example of inter-State cooperation. The recommendation of the European Commission suggests that complex infrastructure projects be financed from different sources, including capital injections, loans and non-refundable European funds. This recommendation, however, is justified by the Commission’s reasoning that such a combination of funding resources contributes to dispersing the financial risks of individual participants in the project. Our SMC Group has identified itself before the participation of the behind countries in the project at the time of the previous parliamentary call, and our position remains the same today. It is difficult to get rid of the belief that the involvement of the behind partners is, however, in the great strategic interest of Slovenia. The partners in the hinterland would somehow secure the demand for our infrastructure and consolidate Slovenia as part of an important European logistics corridor. The potential participation of large back markets would significantly increase the amount of transhipment destined for the port of Koper and would also increase the competitiveness of the port itself. Nevertheless, in the SMC Group, we are aware that we need to ensure a fair contractual relationship between all participating countries through precise and clear accession conditions. The conditions for the investment of spindle countries in the project will thus have to be subject to difficult negotiations, in which it will be necessary to highlight the appropriate relationship between national economic and financial interests of co-investors. In particular, we need to clearly lay down the conditions of cooperation concerning the way in which the voting rights and the impact of potential investors on the decision-making of the company are managed and controlled. We firmly believe that the impact of potential participating countries should not exceed the level of the business share of these countries in the capital of 2TKK, taking account of the European Union's resources acquired in the calculation. We also support the view that public railway infrastructure, which consists of the second route of the Divača-Koper route, must become or remain the property of the Republic of Slovenia after the end of the concession relationship. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that with foreign investors, of course under appropriate conditions, in the construction of the second track, we could save a substantial part of the financial resources and thus obtain credible partners in infrastructure connections, thereby helping to create a more favourable business environment for Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and other economic operators. On the basis of the above facts, we will oppose the proposal for a law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u20	Good-bye, everybody! Unfortunately, there is once again one of those debates that should not be at all today. On the subject of Hungarian cooperation in the construction and management of the second track, a huge amount of hours have been spent and the course of events during the previous government, when we were responsible for the infrastructure in the SAB, has already indicated that we can rest. We are pleased that the idea of Hungary being involved in the construction of our infrastructure is forever withdrawn from the table. The second track talks date back 25 years when it became clear that the capacity of the existing single line would need to be increased. Virtually all ministers and ministers of infrastructure have been involved in this project. I am pleased that the project also started last week and that Minister Vrtovec made a point of one important phase in this project. So congratulations, Minister, but I am sad that you are not with us today, because after all it is the most important infrastructure project at this time. The largest infrastructure project in our country has finally begun to build after 25 years and 43 metres of files. Instead of being able to rejoice and be proud that we have succeeded, today we must fight in the National Assembly for Slovenian sovereignty and prove to you once again that Slovenia is capable of building a second track on its own. Cerar's government was already playing with the idea of bringing foreigners into this most important infrastructure project. At the time we opposed the Sab party, and we strongly oppose today; not only because we are in opposition, but because we know that Slovenia can and can build infrastructure on its own. Even in the previous government, we had to make an effort in the SAB and prove to the partners that Hungary's participation in this project is unnecessary, very expensive and also a major political error. And we convinced them and proved that Slovenia is capable of building and managing its infrastructure itself, which is, of course, the only right thing for a sovereign state! I have dedicated a lot of my working time as Minister to this project, and we have moved a lot of things in a short year and a half. The investment programme was prepared and validated, where the financial structure is clearly shown to be up to the last cent. We have closed down the financial structure, provided the necessary capital, European funds and difficult to obtain a loan from the European Investment Bank. The preparatory work and the construction of accessible roads began, which is, in fact, a condition that the construction of the track could also begin last week. Cooperation with Hungary has been called off and we have secured a savings of EUR 250 million, as much as the return on the 200 million loan would have been in 45 years. The adoption of the guarantee law, which created the basis for the cheapest debt, was also extremely important. The fact is that the cost of the debt is significantly lower when guaranteed by the State. The law of guarantee was the last stone in the mosaic, which ensured that Slovenia could carry out the project on its own without the frozen countries without Hungary. At the time of his adoption, we were able to hear in the debate a number of eyewitnesses who knocked on the conscience of all those who supported the law. We have heard about how we missed the historic opportunity that will no longer be given to the Slovenian economy – something similar we are hearing today – criticisms that Hungary lost interest in the second track due to foolish Slovenian moves. But the government of Janez Janša proved to be what was supposed to happen all the time; the Hungarians have not lost any interest in our biggest project, they want access to the sea, and they will get access to it with your game. The day we should be happy and proud that the second track started to build, you turned it into a week. Instead of working on how to bring the project to an end as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible, you have again drawn an interstate agreement and initiative to let Hungary back together. Hungary would be participating in the project with a 200 million capital injection, with a 3 % return on its investment. It's interesting that Cerar negotiated his father better than you, because he negotiated 2.8% of the profits, so you did a worse job in a better situation. In addition, there are 30,000 square metres of land in the area of the port of Koper. Of course, it must be made clear that the so-called capital injection is nothing more than an extremely expensive loan. Because it will have to be returned with a 3% return or, if you want, interest. It is also shocking how easy it is to give up 30,000 square metres of land in Luka Koper, knowing that our ports lack land. It is difficult to find the right words to reflect the problem of the interstate agreement and our resentment over it. Why push into something that the project encourages? Why involve Hungary or anyone else when we can build another track ourselves? And not only that, we can build it cheaper ourselves! As mentioned above, money for construction is provided and the conditions for borrowing on international markets are inadequately favourable to the conditions under which you would let Hungary into the ownership structure of 2TKK. These numbers are a clear indication that there is something else in the game, otherwise no one who can get through at least a handful of common sense would agree to it. Why reduce your strategic advantage, why sell your infrastructure to foreigners? When the Second Tier Act was adopted in 2017 in the National Assembly, we heard, among other things, the wise words of a Member expressing hope that we still have so much intelligence that we are aware that no one would throw 200 million euros into the neighbouring country if we did not expect some benefits. He stressed that Hungary should not be given a privileged position or better access to Luke. This Member was a party colleague of the current Minister of Magi. Matthew Tonin. And in the SAB we would like to refresh our views on the problem in Novi Slovenije. At that time, NSI took the diametric opposite view of today’s projects. At the beginning of the construction in an extremely picturesque speech, Minister Vrtovec stressed that Slovenian logistics in the ruthless global game, which is often held in the overpowered and heavy playground, should no longer afford defeat, as this far-reaching negative impact on the entire Slovenian economy would have. We agree with this, but we are concerned about what strategies lead the Slovenian government and whose victory they are actually seeking. They seem to have a much more visionary coach on the Hungarian bench and a much more crafty, thoughtful and playful team. This government's unreasonable actions have already cost a lot of taxpayer money. Such indebtedness in neighbours is at a time when government bonds can be owed practically without interest – and of course you would like to boast – it is unacceptable and more than obvious that cooperation with Hungary would be far from prudent and efficient spending of public funds. It is also absurd that, at the time that we have been in such a record debt, the Government plays in this way with tax money as well as with Slovenian strategic interest. Instead of making sure that the profits of 2TKK are spent on building the necessary and promised additional track, we have to share the profits and expensive overpayment of Hungarian money. In the SAB Group, we are convinced that the only right path is the one that is foreseen by today's law. Under no circumstances should the state give up its infrastructure and therefore both Divača-Koper and 2TKK must remain in the country's 100 % ownership. The SAB Members and Members of Parliament will unanimously support the law as appropriate for further consideration. And I call on everyone else to maintain the sovereignty of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill proposes to remove the possibility of other so-called outlying countries entering the ownership structure of 2TKK, d.o.o. and consequently their financial cooperation in financing the construction of the second line of the Divača-Koper railway. The proposer therefore proposes deleting and amending certain articles of the law relating to this chapter. The entry of foreign capital is unacceptable and unnecessary in the view of the proposer, as the second track is then to be co-owned by another country for at least 45 years, which is intended to impede the effective management of strategic infrastructure in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. There is also a high risk of strategic infrastructure becoming a means of achieving other political objectives in mutual relations. It is further estimated that in the case of financial cooperation from another country, Slovenia would provide a high capital return through budgetary resources and from the revenue of state-owned enterprises, which would be significantly more expensive than if it had provided additional capital itself. According to some calculations, Hungary, in addition to its contribution to the paid share capital, is expected to receive a well-paid 38% profit on capital invested, which could amount to up to 3% per year, as if Slovenia were in charge of issuing negative interest-rate bonds, and not to exhaust all possibilities of obtaining additional European grants. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposaler of the law that funds for the recapitalisation and repayment of loans from 2TKK are provided in the budget and, consequently, the foreign country could really have an impact on and profit from Slovenia’s strategic infrastructure without contributing to the operating costs itself. This would result in a second-rate project for which the guarantee law was passed and for which the company's debts were guaranteed only by the Republic of Slovenia and not by a foreign country. This does not seem right in the Desus Group, and we would never have supported such a solution. However, the second point of the law is that foreign countries, in addition to the high return on capital invested, should also require related transactions, which should be included in the cost of financing. In this regard, the interests relating to Luka Koper, d.d. and the acquisition of real estate in the area of the port of Koper and the advantages of Hungarian train carriers in the use of the second track are mentioned. In the Desus Group, we have examined the matter very well, from all angles, and have concluded that the cooperation of the so-called behind countries is only envisaged as an option and that very strict conditions must be met for the use of this option. Let me list just a few: financial cooperation can only be achieved through the acquisition of a business share in a company which is an investor of the second indent, i.e. in company 2TKK. Furthermore, only the Member State or Member States of the European Union can obtain this share. The share of shareholders in the core capital of 2TKK may not be achieved or exceeded by the share of the Republic of Slovenia. The terms of cooperation shall be determined by an international agreement ratified by the National Assembly. It is clear from this that the purpose is not to open the door wide to foreign investments in the second indent, but to do so is quite contrary. The conditions of financial cooperation are also strictly regulated, thus limiting the effects of cooperation and reducing the unpredictability of the effects of different interests on the functioning of the company and the second indent in the long term of the concession period. These conditions, according to the Desus Group, prevent the majority ownership of a foreign shareholder, since the majority owner of 2TKK remains in any event the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, only another State and not a private investor may be a shareholder. Cooperation can only take place within companies and takes place under the rules of corporate law. Thus, the potential shareholder can exercise his or her interests only within the corporate framework as a minority shareholder and in this respect he is entitled only to the rights conferred on him by the rules of operation of companies. Finally, we would like to point out in the Desus Group that after more than 20 years of different studies, analyses, legal and other financial complications have finally begun to be built. The transshipment in North Adriatic ports is growing rapidly, which is also a great opportunity for Luka Koper. Whether the cargo from Asia lands in Trieste, on the River or in Koper, it's up to us. Therefore, it is not wise to close our doors with our neighbours, even with regard to possible financial cooperation in the project, not, of course, with the pre-known rules of the game. At the same time, I hope that we have learned from history that we will not have a headache again, since we remember TES6. After construction, the second track will be part of the Slovenian public railway infrastructure. However, public rail infrastructure cannot be subject to enforcement. In the event of bankruptcy, the Republic of Slovenia has the exclusion right on the second-tier infrastructure facilities and facilities, which we consider to be a very important fact. On the basis of all the above facts, we will not support the amendment of the law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u24	It was only a matter of time before and through which door will the government of Janez Janša reinstate Hungary into the second track project. The door to mentor Victor is still locked, although the financial structure of the project has long been closed. There is no shortage of capital for the project, as shown by all other actions. Hungary’s loan is not required. We wonder what the government has promised its Hungarian friends this time through an initiative to conclude an agreement. What is on the Slovenian side of this scale, what does Slovenia gain from this agreement and what does our railway and Luka Koper do? Will Hungary provide us with an exclusive supply of goods, or is Hungary's entry into the 2TKK guarantee that partners will bring goods and transactions to the second track? The questions are rhetorical, the answers to them are negative, because the acquisition of cargo is not the role of ministers and it is not the role of government presidents to direct businesses, with whom and where they will transport cargo. This is the decision of the large shipowners and their main multinational parties to direct the cargo. The cargo will follow the most favourable, quickest, safest routes and best links; these logists are not state-owned, but are private, so the route of the cargo will determine the interest of private capital. In the negotiations on the construction and management of the second track, the Hungarian Government thanks the three: pre-assured share in construction operations for Hungarian companies, the share of the Hungarian carrier in freight operations on the Koper route of Hungary and ownership and influence in Luka Koper. In this regard, it should be noted that in the initiative to conclude an agreement with Hungary prepared by the current Government, there is no longer a clause that the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia in the company Luke Koper and the advantage of the Hungarian train carriers in the use of the second track of the Divača– Koper are not subject to negotiations and that the agreement will not affect the concession area, concession contract and activities of Luka Koper. The government initiative does not therefore rule out the possibility of Hungary becoming co-owner of other strategic Slovenian companies, including Luka Koper, which is the maximum Hungarian requirement. The requirement for privileged access to the route for Hungarian carriers is also unacceptable. We can only ask ourselves how the current and new foreign partners would respond to this, which would directly harm the Slovenian railways to which foreign carriers would take business away from them, and Luke Koper, who cannot afford that some carriers and suppliers of goods would be treated worse than others. The basis for the preparation of the agreement also provides for the payment of the proportional share of the contribution, which would suggest that Hungary’s capital injection would be essentially a rather expensive loan, as Hungary would receive, in addition to the capital capital capital of EUR 200 million, a well-paid 38% of the capital gains. In addition, on the one hand, 2TKK from the Slovenian budget and new public charges will receive more than €35 million per year, and these funds will ensure the operation of the second track, the repayment of loans and the payment of profits to owners of 2TKK. On the other hand, Hungary would have had an impact on Slovenia's strategic infrastructure and its profits, but it would not have to contribute to the cost of operating and to the repayment of the investment. Such a partnership would put Slovenia in an independent and unequal relationship with Hungary. The second track would also be the only section of our strategic railway infrastructure, which would be co-owned by a foreign country, which would also be a disaster at European level, where we do not know any European country that would leave power to other countries in the management of the railway line. Countries don't want others to rummage through their infrastructure. The diversity of interests of the various co-owners could hinder the effective management of strategic infrastructure, and there would also be a high risk of becoming a means to achieve other political objectives in mutual relations. We are therefore convinced that Slovenia must be included in the international corridors as it involves all comparable countries; as owner of strategic infrastructure in its territory and as an equal partner with other countries in the corridor. It should be borne in mind that the second track is the most important and also the most expensive infrastructure project of our country, so it is important that it is carried out transparently. In our view, however, the price and time in which it will be built should be a key guide for the project, but this obviously did not lead this government and its President, who, with various manoeuvres and for his own country, wants to redesign Slovenia on the basis of Hungary, which some European leaders call a painful democracy and the most problematic member of the European Union, who is serially going beyond a number of European foundations. This reminds us of the fiasco on the negotiations on the financial package for Europe's reconstruction after the pandemic, when Slovenian foreign policy under the control of Prime Minister Visegrajce has supported the spread of their unacceptable and destructive ideas, which, by systematically violating human rights and decommissioning the rule of law, ignore European values and standards. In addition to the controversial financing of Nova24 and Nova Horizon, which received financial support from Hungarian companies associated with Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán and his client Fidesh during the last election campaign. This drifting of Slovenia against Hungary must certainly concern us, as well as the growing separation of our country from the core European countries that have driven our economic exports, and on the international parquet, we must be concerned about the growing distance from some such as Russia and China, to which our economists are exporting more and more. We wonder what the Government wants to do with the benevolence of Hungary, as well as Poland and some other Eastern European countries. Even if we compare the relationship of the Cerara government with Hungary and, on the other hand, the relationship of the Janša government with our eastern neighbour, there is a clear difference. The first government mentioned did not involve personal and party interests in inter-state negotiations and bilateral agreements, which is becoming a constant in the current government. Finally, do we really want the most important billion euro worth of infrastructure project to land in the hands of someone who, with his ownership, invades Slovenia, hides no territorial appetites in our country and regularly publishes a map of the great Hungary? Hungary has only one goal: and this is access to the sea. It is quite clear that Luka Koper for Hungary represents a window into the world. The interest here is mutual, but our government with Hungary simply does not know how to talk as an equal partner, where it would reasonably agree who drinks and who pays for the second track. We promised Hungary high yields, more than 10,000 square metres of land for long-term rental. The initiative also envisages that part of the second indent of the call for construction works will be carried out in Hungary, thereby reducing the transparency of the business. However, the purpose of the tender in Hungary is to favour Hungarian companies, which would also encourage the construction of a second track. Whose business is that? Finally, if a Hungarian logistics company might want to rent land near the port of Luka Koper, which would bring more goods, we could only say why not, if there is a mutual business interest in this. But it is necessary to know that we do not need interstate agreements to do so, and we do not need Hungarian governance with the second track. Although we are in favour of good-neighbourly relations in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, of project cooperation with the Länder and of the transfer of international freight transport from roads to railways, of the solutions and ideas cited by this Government in its cooperation with Hungary in the construction of the second track, it is simply not possible to believe. We do not question good cooperation with neighbouring countries, especially if it is of mutual interest, but according to the figures presented and the financial structure already completed for the second track, we are convinced that Slovenia can build it itself and finance it as it has been set up so far. Otherwise, Hungarian partners in Luka Koper have been more than welcome for decades and I believe that we all want Koper to remain the first Hungarian port, but not literally. Not under currently defined conditions where our neighbouring country would receive as much as half of ownership of 2TKK for a 200 million Hungarian loan and Slovenia would invest as much as 800 million with European funds, which is certainly not and cannot be a contract between equal partners. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we advocate that strategic infrastructure remain in public ownership and domestic governance, that Slovenia builds the second track itself, with as little costs as possible and that, within the framework of the already adopted financial plan and without the privatisation of the second track to Hungary or any other country. However, the President of the Government reopens the closed financial structure and invites his Hungarian friend to the project, although it is clear that if we build the second track together with Hungary, the cost of construction of the railway would be some 100 million euros higher, and the fact that Orban would not have allowed a foreign investor into his country under such conditions as Hungary requested to participate in the second track project. Furthermore, not all options have been exhausted for Slovenia to obtain additional European grants for the second track under the multiannual budgetary framework or under the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. Although Minister Vrtovac claimed that he would seek to obtain more of these European grants, there is not a single cent on the basis of the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism for the second track. Instead of fulfilling the promise, the minister preferred to propose an agreement with Hungary, where it is essentially a costly loan with tied transactions. Finally, cooperation with Hungary is a very risky move, as this country has also been investigated several times by the European Anti-Fraud Office, which in Hungary has repeatedly found damage to public funds, suspicions of organised criminal activities and the fact that European money was intended for oligarchs and businesses within the ruling party. Hungary has thus been leading the way in recent years on the irregularity of spending the European Union's development resources. It has proved to be a country where populist leaders use their power to allocate European funds to consolidate their regimes and undermine democracy. Thus, the question of whether Hungary’s participation in the second track would result in greater transparency and diligence in the use of public money for such a project is already well known. To conclude, the current government should be committed to the implementation of the second track project as soon as possible, but it was precisely the largest government SDS party that has actively contributed to the two legislative referendums in recent years and to this account to the more than a one-year standstill of the project. All this proves once more that in our country the key national strategic projects are, in the absence of a clear strategy, always the spoils of political meddling.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Comrade Vatovec, did you want a procedural proposal? [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer, I'm sorry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. As usual, in the introduction to some of the comments of the Government, which was repeated today in the position as well as in the opinion we received in writing, and of course also in the coalition groups and those who are associated, the arguments are virtually all the same. The first is that this article is just a basis to be extended, and then this agreement, which is full of fuses; a fuse that can be used primarily to get benefits and avoid all risks. But that's not true, is it? Of course, it is the law that provides the basis for such an agreement between countries, and that is also why we have tabled the amendment. It is said that this option is deleted because, as we have heard many times today, it is harmful to us; it is simply harmful, and on the other hand it is pointless. One of the government and coalition's claims is that this profit is by no means guaranteed and that any foreign country that enters this project enters with some risk. They say they go to some kind of game if you want, but of course it's a lie. It's nothing but a lie! The profit is guaranteed and is guaranteed in the second indent law itself. In the law, if you go to look at it, and if you remember, the state has committed itself to paying an annual fee of €35 million for the country's availability from the budget, the first income! In order to enable 2TKK to even operate or operate in profit and for this purpose Dars has been paying the budget duties with Luka Koper since 2018 and these duties go directly to 2TKK. By providing some stable system or funding mechanism for 2TKK, the law also provided for this compensation for its availability. Even if there were no traffic, the State would be obliged to deliver this money to the company. These duties may also be increased further, the amounts are not defined in the law, they may be amended by a decision – and this has already happened, and this has changed in September 2020. And as far as I can see, it's still in the government's handling, so it's essentially using this thing. The Secretary of State also stressed today that the payment of profits is not foreseen until after 2059, in line with the investment programme. That's true, but the investment programme is an investment programme. What you wrote in the initiative to conclude the agreement is that profits can also start to be paid, or immediately after the entry into service of the second track; and this is 2026. So here too, see, it appears in all of these responses that you are actually running out of arguments to defend the entry of any foreign country into another track project. The government says that, even with cooperation in financing, this other country would not be the owner or co-owner of the second track, but would remain the owner of the 2TKK project company. I mean, this is once again the division of a madman from citizens and citizens. If 2TKK is the owner of the second track and they are two partners, Slovenia and Hungary, then co-owner? But this is less important at the moment. What's most important and I think about this is that we also need to concentrate, this family is about the fact that the participation of any foreign country, Hungary in this case, in the project company means an increase in some strategic business, an increase, after all, even the business of Luke Koper, which is completely nonsense. I understand that this is coming to you at this very moment as an argument, but although perhaps we would like to do something different in Levica, at this point a few countries in this world have such control over the economy that they can dictate how country-by-country transactions will take place. What is the advantage of Luke Koper is that it is independent; it is said that good business relations have virtually all the corridors we know across Europe, the second largest market or second largest partner of Luke Koper in Slovenia is Austria, only third Hungary, and this is also some competitive advantage of Luke Koper. It is said that it can deal with different partners from different countries in such a way that, of course, this transhipment increases and rises from year to year in the Koopar port. So, what's crucial about all this is just another course: yes or no, but not as soon as possible, not who we're going to connect with. I think that we really need to leave the role of connecting and concluding the business of Luka Koper here, but not in fact jeopardize the potential operations of the port by favouring one of the countries. This would probably be a very negative signal for the other partners if we entered into an agreement exclusively with Hungary. In addition, Luke Koper's biggest business partner from Hungary is private companies, mostly the automotive industry, Volkswagen and so on. In short, they are not some state-owned enterprises that Orbán could influence, and from this point of view, Hungary's participation in such a form cannot be something that could be an advantage. Maybe the opposite. A recent article has been published in Del on this particular issue and, in fact, economics, logistics and security experts in fact are very much one voice disputing any advantage if this entry of Hungary actually took place. Let's say Rock Svetek, CEO of operator Adria Komi, says this argument doesn't hold. The cargo will follow the most convenient, quickest and safest routes. He'll go where the best connections are. Thus, what is important for the flow of goods is that the second track is built — and as soon as possible — and then the logisticians will see to it that the transshipment takes place on the second track. Similarly, Cedomir Bojanić, President of the Port Forwarders Section, who says that, given that countries do not control the flow of goods, they are directed by globalists, consignors, recipients, freight forwarders, only the provision of conditions for States to attract these flows remains. Since the state has no direct influence on this, there is no reason for anyone to leave their tasks to anyone. This task in this particular case is to maintain the second track of state ownership and, of course, to manage it accordingly. In view of the concerns of the SNS, which surprised me a bit, given what the basis or platform of Slovenian nationalists is, and in fact also in this respect, we should defend Slovenian interest – last but not least, the winner of Jelinčič also participated in protests against Hungary's inclusion in the second track. We can answer this with a quote from Dr. Prebilič, a security expert, who says, “While Slovenia has control of Luka Koper, her back and land, it is good. Any lease of land means a deterioration of Slovenia's geopolitical position towards other partners. This is the most expensive lunch possible.” It's the most expensive lunch I've ever had, and I'm sure it's true. As I have already said, the value of the investment has already decreased by 200 million this year, in line with the conclusions of the 2TKK Supervisory Board. It decreased precisely by the amount of the cartridge that Hungary would have given, which Hungary would, of course, have given with these supplements. Once again, Hungary's entry into 2TKK does not mean a net deposit of 200 million, but it does mean a return on interest, which is high, as stated, already provided under the agreement and in particular related transactions. Here I am thinking of these 30,000 square metres of land within the state spatial plan for the port of Cyprus, which is one of the key options for the further development of the port of Cyprus. And from this point of view, such a move would be absolutely detrimental to the interests of Slovenia, to the interests of the port of Cyprus and, if you wish, to the interests of the entire Slovenian economy. Here again, I stress that the Government obviously has no serious objections to why this should be carried out in such a way, given that we have already seen that it has been possible to close the financial structure without this risk of entry by a foreign country, that – this is also important – the Government still has a large reserve as regards European funds. We have heard before that not one cent was foreseen for the second track, while other countries also spend up to 85% of European funds on such projects, and there is still a lot of manoeuvre to be made and should be used. A mechanism for recovery and recovery and so on. In short, there is no argument that we should go on a path that is more expensive and more risky, but not on a road that is now checked, jammed and, of course, should not even be discussed today if we did not get a friendly party into the government, friendly with Hungary, which either pays off or repays certain debts or services that have been done in the past, either directly or explicitly harmful and detrimental to Slovenia's interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Mihelič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to a few questions, or a few questions, or statements that I cannot quite agree with, but I would just like to give a brief explanation. Presentations have repeatedly raised – a similar question for all those who support this law, the proposer and the supporter – including Hungary's expectations. I hope that we are united here, that we are not talking about Hungary today, that we are not talking about Austria, Germany or other countries, individually, we are talking about a law that is only allowing all countries that will express interest and where we will find a common strategic interest that we can participate in the project. Today I have a feeling that there is a little bit of a political need to present itself as if this is a law on the integration of Hungary. No, this is about all the countries. At the Ministry we actively conduct discussions with all neighbouring countries and those having a strategic interest in connectivity through our network with Luka Koper: Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Austria, Germany and also Hungary. In short, everyone is important to us if we want to have infrastructure and it will also be used appropriately. That Cerar was negotiating better than we were, was one of the claims. We just started negotiating, but not yet, no promises are made, no specific numbers are on the table. And the fact that we compare pears to apples when there are no numbers at all is really an irresponsible force, and I believe that for all those who do not follow this procedure, it is a little misleading. That the capital injection is substantially more expensive than the loan. I don't know, I really can't understand this statement, and I'm very much out of it with economic sense. That the state must not give up infrastructure. We will certainly not give up infrastructure. This is only an opportunity for a foreign country, a foreign partner to enter the investment at the second level; of course, where we maintain the dominant share, interest and overall control, that after the concession period in 2064 all infrastructure is transferred free of charge to the property of the Republic of Slovenia and that even during the concession period the Republic of Slovenia remains the land owner, so only infrastructure equipment is owned by 2TKK. It is also interesting that the investment programme in 2019, i.e. under the previous government, involved – of course, as you know what the process of adopting the investment programme is – the possibility of involving other countries as co-investors in this project. Now it's been a bit of an issue. So nothing changes, everything stays the way it was. The fact that the financial structure has been completed for some time. I don't know where. Only the European Investment Bank has given an opinion, with a set of conditions for which we are already working hard to fulfil this mandate in order to be able to draw these 250 million. Cohesion funds have not yet been approved, 80 million and no contract with credit commercial banks has been concluded. We promised Hungary high land yields. I'd really like to know where and when. Come on, please, show us when we promised Hungary high yields and where! They're not there. As far as making a profit is concerned. It is indeed stated that it can begin as soon as the company’s business outcome and liquidity situation enable it to do so. And the investment program tells you when this is going to happen. Therefore, it is a fact that it will only be against 2060, if at all. So if everything goes great, if the route is used, if the transshipment doesn't fall too much, it'll hopefully come to 2060. When we talk about the growth of the revenue of Luka Koper, I would suggest that you really take a little look at how Luka Koper and the other ports in our neighborhood operate in 2020 and even now. Revenue and traffic in Luka Koper is like the slightly exception to Luka Koper on one of the segments that slightly rose, while the others have a significant fall. So if we don't play strategically, if we don't have good infrastructure and cooperation with other countries, we are looking forward to a drop in traffic in Luka Koper. Well, growth in Luka Koper is not self-evident. Interest-providing, guaranteed return. I don't even know where it says the partner has a guaranteed return. There's no such thing anywhere. Even when we negotiate, no one says "I mean," the current situation is certainly so that our expectations are one, the expectations of other countries can also be significantly different and the question is if we come together. If we do, it'll be nice, but if we don't, it won't. And here we have some of our own story that we take, and other countries have their own legitimate and, of course, their own interest and their own image. However, there is no guaranteed return, even less secured interest because it is not credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u30	Thank you. I'll just be for a little while. “This is not the Hungarian law.” Of course, we all know that this is not the Hungarian law, but the fact is that after the government clearly indicated that it wanted to carry out this project itself, said without the cooperation of some other countries, Prime Minister Orbán himself resigned, after we had seen virtually every month Foreign Minister Shijjárt in Ljubljana, resigned from the project, said that Hungary was not doing so. One month after the current government swore, this same Shijártó appeared again in Ljubljana and began discussions on this. I mean, this notion that it's nothing, it's not Hungary, it's all countries. See, in the National Assembly we have received an initiative to conclude an agreement that is even worse than that proposed by the Government of Mira Cerar, where these conditions are very clearly defined by you now. There is up to 3% of the return that will return to this investor or Hungary, the minister himself confirmed that the negotiations are under way and that you are talking. Above all, once again, the key; 30,000 square metres of capacity within the state spatial plan for the port of Koper. And that's what I'm talking about. It's just that we've all been at this point, because it's okay, the thing is closed - I'm not talking about the final financial structure, I'm talking about closed all the time. But to be carried out without the risk of entering a foreign investor, a foreign country and moving on. But of course there is always someone who complicates things, so this law, but if we take away this possibility that is defined in the law, you will not be able to propose such an agreement. And that's obviously the only thing we can do with this government. It is said that we are not aiming for common sense, but to legally take away some of the possibilities that you are actively damaging the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, because in this case it is nothing more than damaging the interests of the key strategic infrastructure, as far as logistics is concerned. And today you have all received support from two unions, the Žerjavist Union and the Confederation of Trade Unions 90, where they very clearly insist that the second track should be built exclusively with the funds of the Republic of Slovenia or according to the current plan, it is said without the entry of a foreign owner. This is also the interest of Luke Koper himself, but that the second track would remain completely in Slovenian ownership, because everything else will also endanger their business.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The story of the second track is long enough to have a gray beard. We can say that when we want to establish a political point, of course, we can point out infrastructure, we can also point out a second track that has been covered with lots of ink and many words already said. The fact is that we need effective infrastructure in Slovenia not only because of Luke Koper, although this has been mentioned here many times today, but also because of all citizens and citizens, because of the economy as a whole, because of Slovenia's freedom of sustainable integration within the country and with other countries. And at this very point, I see that it is artificially created that Slovenia is making a deal with Hungary. The Secretary of State made it clear that Slovenia is talking to all the behind countries that have an interest in loading or supplying raw materials, including via Luka Koper; these are also Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Austria, Germany. And if we look back at what individual governments have done in this area so that we could practically be in construction last week, the first shovel has been planted. This could have happened in 2016 or earlier if the policy in Slovenia had been uniform and the European Investment Bank had also been able to place matters in a timely manner and to move things forward in a transparent and correct manner. However, things in several areas were stalled and then began to move again sometime in 2016. I will not say now which governments are to blame, but the fact is that no one has taken over or no one has taken responsibility. And now, if this government has started and said that now is enough, we will take the matter forward, with clear views, with clear commitments that are in the marriage, but the story begins to open: yes, of course Hungary will come in. Finally, we need to know that Slovenia alone does not need some serious infrastructure for not knowing what kind of money contribution, but you really need to look for a partner who will be over your port, that you will have jobs, jobs, wages, that other countries will also see the interest in trans-shipment or that Luka Koper is working in this part of Europe. Of course, the neighbouring countries of Italy, Croatia are accelerating to build railway links to their northern Adriatic ports. In doing so, they are strategically linked to other Western countries, and we should not, according to today's proponents, do so. And then again we wonder where the Croats beat us to, which point and who wasn't in place at the time to make things happen. To say that Slovenia alone can or cannot do, I say, there is a strategic view of this very construction. But since I've been following this for several years, let me say that bad taste or confidence in this construction is definitely from the time we built an accelerated highway. There were a lot of annexes to the annexes and simply in the National Assembly – I think that in 2012 we accepted another state guarantee for construction, completion of the highway cross across Slovenia – an additional cost at all times, it was very encouraging. And when I said, I am proud that we have good infrastructure and that we will also be in the future, because this government and the minister also committed themselves to building in the future, including the third development axis, the fourth development axis, but I must say that you are showing other countries that would enter under the conditions set out in Article 5 and I will read them that the conditions must be met: "Financial cooperation is only possible by operating a share in a company that is an investor of the second track, that is, 2TDK. Only the Member State or Member States of the European Union can acquire this share of the business. The share of shareholders in the core capital of 2TKK may not be achieved or exceeded by the share of the Republic of Slovenia. The conditions of cooperation shall be determined by an interstate agreement ratified by the National Assembly.” So the National Assembly is the last one to ratify these matters. And these are the guards who say that such cooperation with other countries would not be to the detriment of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe in these guards if they are recorded. Well, and if I go back, and of course, when I first drove across neighbouring Croatia towards Dalmatia, I said, look, the Croats built highways! Of course they built them, but they had a foreign investor or they called a foreign contractor, but they built highways. I do not see a problem with all these fuses if this project, if this second track story were to be entered by a European country, but also with smaller shares or whatever. And it is important that the matter be built as soon as possible, because we also receive a lot of letters when people say that Slovenia as well as others, including Luka Koper, since it has worse railway infrastructure than Divaca to Kopra, also loses part of the transhipment from which Luka Koper lives and also everyone who works there. In this way, too, we are losing out on the state as it is, with the status quo, the country is losing out in this area. And the obvious as to the payout. The Secretary of State has made it clear that the return on capital will be possible after 2059, not before. I don't know, I guess some people really know more. I don't know how we can talk or convene meetings when foreign investors leave Slovenia, but when we speak or because it's not written anywhere that anyone will come, but only on the indications, it's strongly opposed. Nowhere, the Secretary of State said, is it written down that some countries have been promised. This contract is not, it is also said to be a political account, which I also understood from the perspective of colleagues and colleagues where this fear is when you see the entry of some private capital into a private company. I do not know why such political accounts are necessary because things are clear from this point of view; I also have a summary of how much everything has been done on this subject, what has been done, including the external policy meeting, and I think it is important that Slovenia retain its share of leadership if this happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Then get ready for Comrade Doblekar and the Jew. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u34	Thank you, President. I thought I could start clean with the content, but first I had to respond to the transfer of my colleague to me and the Secretary of State, who unfortunately isn't. I will read the document we received in December in the National Assembly; 12. 11. It was adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly. This document contains the initiative for the conclusion of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on cooperation in the construction and management of the second track. Who the hell are you kidding?Oh, my God! This is a document that you sent to the National Assembly, and now you say none of it is! I think so! No cheating, no lying to a lie! The document is marked internally because you don't hope to disclose it, you didn't hope to reveal the things that are in there now, I think in March, this label was also removed. But this is the basis or the reason that the law that we are adopting today is created. I would so love to hear from the Secretary of State what this paper is. Does he, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, even know what's going on? The second thing that I have mentioned in my position is this New Slovenia Mortal salad in large infrastructure projects is really interesting, not the second track is the only one, and the third development axis is such. You have a Member in your ranks who has asked me to stop building the third development axis on each of these questions, but now, of course, the Minister is very happy to walk and plant shovels and promote this project, which is right, of course, but it is only very double-faced. A clear answer is what this agreement, which was adopted by the Government, is an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary. I repeat, Secretary of State, this is you, the government sent here, you said earlier that there was no document. Answer to SNS colleagues who are concerned that the money is not provided. The money is provided and there is no need for foreign capital entry. I understand you're looking for reasons to support something that is basically against your client's views and programs, but you can't find it here. Thus, you will remain recorded forever in history, allowing Hungary to enter the port of Koper or the second track, as well as indirectly into the port of Koper. The cargo you so like to mention will be with Hungary I don't know how much more; the cargo will go the shortest and cheapest way and the fact is that it will be the second track when we build it. That'll be the second track! If you're talking about the interests that the investor would bring with you, then you should bring in the biggest one, the one you've also driven out of construction. They're Chinese, if you care so much about foreign investors. They would definitely bring you the most traffic and most business. No! No! You call it Hungary. Yes, the profit is guaranteed, the investment programme has been accounted for in our time, with this difference to stay in Slovenia at that time, you will give it to your friends in Hungary and this is a big difference. Once again, I publicly say that there is no need for this capital, these are fairy tales that you explain to anyone. The investment program, before you changed it and further reduced it, which I congratulate you for, I've almost thought about, I've looked at it so many times. Thus there is no need; let us give these profits to Hungary for a route that will – I hope – not only start to build in a short time, but at least things will happen, this is an additional track on this track. However, there will be no need for any new credit, but there will be no need for any new guarantee, but from this money you expect to return to Hungary and it will have to be fair to the state budget, half will go to the state budget and half will go to Hungary – because capital would be 200-200, and let us leave it on this purchase we have a problem, a financial problem of building an additional track. Another answer to a colleague from the SNS that the tunnels will be built twice. They won't, they won't build twice, because in the original investment programme, we've expanded the service pipes into a normal pipe and they'll build at the same time as the first track. That's how they might have read things a little bit poorly here. It really hurts when I listen to the stupid things I have to listen to here today. Why let Hungary into infrastructure? Once again, my friend Orbán would never do anything; he would never let the Slovenians into any infrastructure project! They made a mistake years ago, bought things back. Get back! No, we're going to go over their mistakes again! Of course, there is a question on the table that you haven’t answered with a word about the law of guarantee if that happens. Will the Hungarian state take part in this? In what way, how, when will this be arranged? In short, I'm very emotional about putting a lot of my work into this. I hoped that we had convinced everyone that Slovenia remained a sovereign state and could build the infrastructure on its own. Unfortunately, I have made a mistake and we are working again today to prove to citizens and citizens that we can build this ourselves. And once again, we can build ourselves! We can build ourselves, and we should build ourselves. If we did not have such a government as we have today, this law would not have to be on the table, because it would be clear that we are building the second track and all the other infrastructure projects ourselves. Once again, the initiative for the conclusion of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on cooperation in the construction and management of the second track of the Divača railway Koper came to our parliamentary tables 12. 11. 2020. We can continue, Secretary of State, if you don't know what this document says, what the state would promise, we can go through these points as well. But the fact is that the document – that is why we are talking about Hungary – that the document, the initiative on this cooperation exists. And it's only about Hungary! Not about Austria, not about Germany, not about – I don't know which countries you listed. Just and exclusively about Hungary! And I would also like an answer regarding the guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u36	Thank you very much. He was an eyewitness of what Nova Slovenija is doing. I am proud that our Minister Jernej Vrtovec is building that he also started building a third development axis, even if my Member may have objected to this when you were the Minister. But look, the Gardener started building because he had the terrain ready. And according to your messenger at the meeting of the committee, he said that the sale of land would give him a commission. So you got the commission, and the Gardener started building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u38	Procedural. Look. I said whoever sells gets the commission. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, you too are subject to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u40	Look, I'm sorry, but it got me carried away. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u41	No, no, first of all, do you want a word for a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u42	Procedurally, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u43	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u44	See, if a fellow Member mentions me about a matter that is not related to this meeting and wrongly sums up the words, I said then that those who sell receive a 2-4 per cent commission in accordance with the law. That is why I have repeatedly asked my fellow Member to show the land he sells, because in accordance with the Real Estate Intermediation Act there are 2 to 4% commissions for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u45	Dear Mr Reich, this was not a procedural proposal and I warn you not to use the rules of procedure. Thank you very much. Mr Mihelič, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to respond to certain claims, but I would really like to appeal that we are not offensive to each other. As Secretary of State, I know what's going on at the Ministry, and I can tell you that, Mrs Bratusek, and there's no need to be insulting to each other. I think we are doing a good job of turning many projects into better ones, taking advantage of this crisis, encouraging construction and not reading about the economic catastrophes that have witnessed the previous crisis, that we have also successfully helped to turn this crisis into a better one. When we talk about the initiative, you probably know it yourself, I am sure that the initiative is only one step that we can negotiate with other countries at all. This is one of the parts of the formal procedure, which is where the starting points are given very widely. It is true, however, that you need to read a little bit carefully, both the proponent and you misinterpret it when it says that the associates agree that the annual profits paid to the co-workers will not exceed 3. This does not mean that 3% is guaranteed, only that it will not exceed 3%. I hope we understand that. And after the investment programme it will only be against 2060, and only then will we limit it to 3% together for that short period. That should be a little more specific, I think, reading. I mean, I don't know what we're gonna do if she expresses interest in participating in the project on the arrival or visit of Minister Vrtovec to the Czech Republic. Then what? So we're closing up for all countries, not just Hungary, for everyone else. I'm asking you! So, we can close, we can continue with this in other events, in other projects, in another state code, we just know where this is taking us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica's got Alenka Bratushek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u48	Yes, Mr Secretary of State, as far as resentment is concerned, I agree, but it is necessary to begin with itself. You were the first to say that there is no basis to talk about Hungary today. What a foundation, what a foundation! That is why I said that you obviously do not know the documents accepted by the Government, because we, in the National Assembly, have only the initiative to conclude an agreement between Slovenia and Hungary and not between the Czech Republic and Germany and Austria, but I do not know what you are listing here. That's a fact. You seem to get me wrong when I'm talking about money. I always say, tops. But the fact is, no more than 250 to 300 million will you give them. You can do less, but you can do as much. That is a fact, and people who listen to us today and listen to discussions about the second track for too long must hear it. The need for Hungarians to enter or anyone else in this project is not, and if I were a minister, if I were a minister, it would never be on the table again. Never! I put it off the table, I hoped it would last forever, but unfortunately the thing turned around and again you're trying to sell Slovenian sovereignty to Hungary. But the price will be very high.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u49	Mr Mihelič, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u50	The investment programme in 2019, I think it was your government that adopted and enabled all other countries to participate. When you say the circumstances are different - they really are. By then, Luka Koper had a steady increase in traffic and steady growth and has been declining since 2019. So, the situation has changed so much that we have to worry about Luka Koper and our corridor. So I think, if anything, it has changed in this direction, that we need to be even more vigilant and that we need to be even more willing to cooperate with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues, fellow Secretary of State! When the government worked and prepared the law and began to work the second track, of course, immediately came clues as to how to adjust. This crying we're hearing here, from the former president of the government or the minister of infrastructure, is really childish, no. I mean, listen to this, which I imagine is that she's a minister or if she were, what would be nice if she was. Yeah, she wasn't, was she, because you threw the rifle into the corn all together and left things to be taken by the Yanshe government now, as necessary. This mourning is here in Parliament on the things that the Government does well and will seduce them in favour of the entire of Slovenia, here, in this case, in the construction of a second track for the benefit of Slovenian railways, in the benefit of users, in favour of all those who will also use this new route, is this crying completely meaningless and meaningless, and this flirting with some law on preventing the influence or participation of the icy countries or potential partners who do not speak of Hungary anywhere, and you are going to Hungary and Orbán to have people watching you. I get texting now and people write on the Messenger, say it's totally funny and how it's possible that you can get yourself into some sovereign state, some Hungarian government president who's got majority support, unlike you who don't have it. And here in Parliament I see you just something, I don't see the LMŠ Group at all in Parliament anymore, it's not interested in any subject, nor in the second track, nor in your law. So you don't have support in the KUL opposition or by your own partners, which is sad, they left the meeting and went and they don't care. The second track is being built. The second track is being built. Finally! After so many decades of preparation. There was also a lot of misalignment, but at the end of the day we came together to make the project stop and to make it happen. And believe that it will be done quickly, well, qualitatively, transparently, with international supervision as necessary. Not as you did or as you set up this second track project when you were already broken by the model; you were not able to build the model, but now you would like to do something. And it's really humiliating here, but you're getting to a level like this and trying to limit yourself to some law, prevent the government's normal work and build another track with some nonsense, and it's getting to some country here, Hungary. If Yugoslavia were mentioned, everyone would probably support it because it is Hungary and you have a problem. But there's no mention of what you've heard a hundred times. It's just in your head, virtually. That's what you're stuck with, just like you're stuck with other marriages. For example, in the Water Act, you lie to yourself and do a referendum. Just like you got stuck in your populism Animal Protection Act. Of course, we can't support it if you're popularizing something. And then you're going to post it on Facebook and you're hurting us, and people are attacking us. But let's explain it to them. We explain to them, then they see what time it is. Keep up the good work! If I go back. Above all, you are full of mouths why you should receive additional partners for financial assistance in the project. On the other hand, your mouth is full of why we owe each other. What exactly is it now? What do you want, proponents? What do you want now? Should we make a commitment or get a partner? Please make it clear that I may be in favour of your proposal. You're unclear, contradicting yourself, I don't know what you're talking about. Once, let's give partners a second time, let's get in charge. I don't know what you want right now. And what damage will be caused. I don't know what kind of damage it's gonna be if the partner works, but whoever it is will. What harm will be done? Give me that answer, well, I don't know yet! And 200 million if you were willing to cooperate with a partner with 200 million. Yeah, hell, give this 200 million — if you don't know where to get it — to spend it on the poor. Use them for the poor! Why don't we just let our partner give his share. Give it to the poor, social, NGOs, health care. Remember health care. Let's get that money over there. Among other things, today is the International Day of Nurses, and on this occasion I sincerely congratulate them on all that they do for us. And let them use this. Not that you don't allow a partner to come along and help us. I am listening to your arguments here why we should now change the law when the second track is already in construction, and I simply do not conclude how this proposal could be supported. Absolutely not. When both tracks or other tracks, which have been named after them, are built, the old track can be intended for a panoramic cycling transversal, for example, that will be the continental extension of the famous coastal Parenzana. We would enable the tourist progress of the area, and so on, on which this cycling route would take place. Here, focus a little bit on how you can help. Maybe since you're an expert on cycling, maybe it would be easier to get close. The project itself has great supervision, independent external control. You know that, you know that. This government is not the Sarcas government, but it is not the government of Alenka Bratušek that will think of something to do and allow the lumper to be spilt, but it will be done as necessary. Of course, that also hurts a little. So it's super-control and I believe that control will also do its job and there won't be any problems here. We have heard from the Left that Orban is a fascist dictator. I hope he heard you, but if you're not here, I'll pass it on to him, and he'll talk to you for a while. You'll tell me what it looks like, why you're thinking. Although he was democratically elected to the elections, he has received far more votes than you have here. That way, I don't know where you see the problem. You're here to argue that this is too expensive an investment. What do you want? But now you're proposing in your law today that it's to lower the investment, or what? Why did you even mention that this investment is too expensive if you have a law about something else? And then we hear it here. And people listen. I don't know. But I don't know what the national betrayal is. And you're talking about cheap credits, and when the government gets credit, they take credit for good things, and you're saying why the government is in debt. But you weren't actually able to do it when you're already doing so much, and you're throwing things like this forward so that one of the Horn projects can be done as it needs to be done. You've lost that, too. Brotherhood, the fight for Slovenian sovereignty. Where is he? Oh, she's already gone out. It's not interesting anymore. Slovenian sovereignty and Bratuškova happily cooperated and helped sell Slovenian companies, sought out strategic foreign partners, participated in various projects, which all failed or half of them. Now he is talking about the sovereignty of Slovenia and so on, the fight for Slovenian sovereignty. To throw you away! Janja Sluga – there is no Janja Sluga. SMC or she herself was there when the law was being prepared, and now she is speaking a completely third here and she is deceiving what is absolutely unnecessary. In short, all the debates I've been hearing have been pathetic. The Government of Labour, the Ministry of Infrastructure is working, the project is being implemented as necessary. Your government or your two governments have thrown a rifle into the corn and now we're crying. And also the super-cooperational party Levica was very much involved in this, because you were partners. You were partners because you prepared everything, actually! Now you're saying this isn't right. I believe that Slovenian Railways – mainly part of the Slovenian Railways, Infrastructure – are very pleased that the project is being carried forward to work to build the project. We know that since 2014, this route has been 100% occupied. It was no longer possible to obtain additional transport routes and it is time to start doing so. And since 2019, otherwise the draw track has been made, then we could have acquired four new trains a day, but this is a trifle of such great traffic and such a great interest in driving freight trains, and in the meantime passenger trains of course for the port of Koper. But we know what problems Slovenian railways have or what infrastructure we have, how you cared for infrastructure for all the years you were in government, as well as your predecessors. All those decades ago, when the Communist Union was concerned, the Socialist Union of the Working People was socialist – what – the youth who are the successors. You didn't care about the infrastructure of the Slovenian Railways! You didn't put any money in there, and you didn't do anything. That's it, that's the fact! And we've had old dumplings I've driven for 50, 60, 70 years. Baseline loads on our tracks - we got new locomotives, couldn't drive a new locomotive across Lasko. She didn't go to Styrian because it was too much axle load. We know that 20 tons of borders are in these new locomotives. Low speeds, power stations - we know that we still have 3 kilovolts of power in the rolling stock, and we also know those who know what it means to drive trains, and we know what it means to drive trains often. Croatians, the Austrians all have a alternating voltage of 15, 25 kilovolts, we're on three. You didn't do anything, nothing, absolutely nothing! And trains drive slowly, you say. Of course, as much as you invested, that's how trains are driven. So there is a great gain for Slovenian railways, for Slovenia alone, for all of us, and it will not be a waste of this taxpayer's money for the final construction of the new line of Divac - Koper; finally, thank God we can say and thank this government, which has begun to seriously implement the project. I would ask that with such populisms, with such laws that you want to actually just do a little bit of coaxing again, so that the project doesn't take place the way it's pledged to break up with it a little bit. You might want to help or think of something new, how, in what other way, you can help with it, but not to make such laws and sit here all day long, and now we're just going to listen to a variety of throws of pollen under your feet. The second track is being built, the government is building it, the government is working, the previous government has thrown a rifle into the corn, the previous minister is crying if she were, if she were a minister, but if she was the president, she's not! She is a Member of Parliament, and let her live with it, but rather help her, rather than make her nag. I'm asking a little serious about projects like this. This is a joint project of all Slovenes and Slovenes not one political option as you want to show us here. And with these populism suggestions that you send here to the National Assembly, and also make a little noise. I don't know what that's all about. I will certainly not support this proposal of yours, but I support Slovenia and the Slovenian Railway and the second track, as well as the potential partners that will join in. Let's be friends with neighbouring countries, work together for the common good, because we live in Europe. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare the Grinding Brick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, whom I do not see here, has been wiped out somewhere, co-worker, all hailed! To understand each other immediately, we are not talking today whether the second track is yes or the second track; or whether the railway infrastructure is yes or rail infrastructure is not. I am also the first to support the construction of the second track, because this is one of the measures in the fight against the climate and climate crisis, which is in fact on the right hand side you do not even recognize and are not capable of, like the Vatican, also formally admit that we are living in a time of environmental and climate crisis. Rail infrastructure is the right step in the right direction, this is the first starting point. Secondly, the question is whether water financing is rational. So today we are talking about whether the current form you have changed to the right, so that Slovenia understands the construction of the second track as a strategic infrastructure project, where it will build what is strategically important, is cheaper or more expensive than what you are offering; so to involve the partner. Two arguments why what is on the table today is cheaper than this bill. The first argument is that, in fact, what the former Prime Minister of the Government said, and even more important, the former Director of the Budget Directorate, that means that he has competences in spite of everything, unlike the many here who speak and then leave the Chamber. She calculated in a credible way that what you are doing is 200 to 250 million more expensive for Slovenia. And then you say okay, the lady is opposition at the moment. Then find out that your own ministers are speaking the same way right now. Remember how you praised Slovenia for raising EUR 5.2 billion from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will finance all those projects that will solve acute problems in Slovenia and put us at a higher level, as far as green, more environmentally friendly and more friendly countries are concerned. And in the end, there's not much left, except for the big words; out of 5.2, 3 billion disappeared, which at least at this point you're not even going to use. And how publicly you say you don't mean to use three billion! You say, look, this European money In fact we know in banking, financial markets get cheaper money. [[…]] On the contrary, the money currently in Slovenia can even afford to receive money at a negative rate — no! You want to get it even if everything else is pure under other conditions. This is what the former Director of the Budget Directorate calculated to be an additional cost of EUR 250 million. Next question. The Secretary of State has said well that the specific law does not mention individual countries, only partners, but the problem is that the Government has sent some other documents to this Parliament. Those documents, however, speak only of one country. I respect all countries, but I do have something to deal with that everyone should be aware of: neighbours have geopolitical interests. Pika. Either we admit it or we don't. And rational countries are careful to protect their own interests against the geopolitical interests of neighbours. I was born a Styrian myself, and I live more than half my life in Prekmurje and therefore I feel like Prekmurec and as Styrian, but also as Prekmurec. And it meant a lot to me when we didn't celebrate back enough the 100th anniversary of Prekmurje and Prekmurci's connection to the homeland. But the problem is that when you read the history of how this came about, there was no benefit from Ljubljana at the time, much less a mediocre or a major damage, your own people had to deal with it. And now look, we have a partner country on one side, but it's publicizing the Treaty of Triano, the kind of injustice, looking for ways to fix it, and at every possible step where possible, it hangs the map of the great Hungary, where Prekmurje disappears, is no longer part of Slovenia. Are you aware of that? And some other countries at least make a note or otherwise protest, and they say, calm down. If we move on like this, something terrible will happen in this Europe. However, the Slovenian government is silent, completely silent. Now imagine the discomfort that this brings to us! Then step forward. It is good and right that the Hungarian national community in Slovenia is helped, but after we come to the fact that we are adopting in the National Assembly a resolution on the national language policy programme on 68 pages for a period of 5 years and in this large document on 68 pages is a speech on the Slovenian language, which is right, Hungarian, Italian, Roma, which is right, also mentioned as saying. And when we come to the Members who have found that the reason for including the Premur language, which is not a common language, is the former literary language – now it has the status of a supernatural and provincial book language in development – and this is the language that is included in the survey of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Slovenia; and this is the language on which the existence of the Slovenian minority in Use depends, that is, a million reasons, with the support of the expert and the head of the Institute for Slovenian Language of the Academy of Sciences and Arts, and you are voting against the inclusion of the Premur language in such an important document! So that I don't say what you do when you're fracking - yeah, I get scared as a Prekmurka. I'm really scared! This is a reason enough to vote in favour of today's law, because this law limits the geopolitical appetites of the neighbouring country. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Get Alexander Reberšek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u56	President, thank you for your word. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am now getting quite a few messages from people who are monitoring this, for the country, a very important debate on logistics, infrastructure in a country that will engage a lot of money, but it is important for our development. It has been written to me that from the people who are from the railway, in short, from the Ayzenpon, such as Mr Doblekar - and on this pay I respect him, of course, Eisenponer's - to expect a substantive discussion, because the substantive discussion here under way has shown both economic, legal and purely responsible positions of decision on the future of the State and state money that the need for entry of partners from the latter countries is not that the financial structure of the second track is completed. I would also like to say this in connection with the Secretary of State. See, last November the current government adopted an initiative to conclude an agreement between Hungary and Slovenia, according to which half of the ownership stake of 2TKK, which is in charge of the construction and subsequent management of the second track, would be sold to the neighbouring opposing state of Hungary under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, who is practically a business partner of the ruling coalition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party. The ruling coalition has, of course, also confirmed this initiative on the Committee on Foreign Policy and the negotiations with Hungary are in full swing, and the only question is when this government will sell almost half of the second track. And we can prevent this, this is harmful to the property and development of this country, and we lose an important part of our sovereignty over our territory, in particular coastal, 30,000 square meters. This can only be prevented if we change the law in the way that we have proposed to the opposition parties, and I think there are many others. And the profession also supports this by people in Slovenia to prevent the entry of foreign countries into ownership of 2TKK. See, Mr State Secretary, the initiative provides for Hungary to receive a 38% share of 49 planned for the icy countries in 2TKK. Thus, for example, 11% remains for the rest of the Visegraj Group. That's what I'd say now. Look, we've all looked at the government's opinion on this matter, which, I must say, is very defensive in its content, and it seems that there is simply no clear professional argument, not developmental, not economic, not financial, why we should include Hungary. This has been said today by several discussants, MEPs and Members, but unfortunately there is no professional response here, except for the reading of these government decisions. The Government's view is that budgetary resources are provided and at the same time they say that a strategic partnership is necessary in order to ensure sufficient trans-shipment. Which, of course, does not drink water, because the Hungarian government has no influence on this, because most of the companies for which this transhipment is carried out for Hungary are large car companies in foreign ownership and we see these cars being transported along our routes, and politics in Hungary is not affected. That is what I would have said to you, Mr Secretary, when you mentioned earlier this fact that the transport situation, which is true, has decreased markedly since 2019. Of course it is! It's all over the world, and the cause isn't that there's no other track, it's covid, because that's not hard to understand. Now I would point out some references from a government opinion that they do not hold; if they do not, I hope to use the word that they are lies. I'll argue that you won't say I'm using Boris Doblekar's language. Look, profit - and here I am also talking to my colleague Dimič, if possible listening in the office - profit is not guaranteed. Indeed, profit is guaranteed — Hungary, no — profit is guaranteed by the Second Tyre Act. In the Second indent Act, the State has committed itself to this law to pay an annual amount of 35 million for its availability in order to enable 2TKK to deal with profits. To this end, Dars and Luka Koper have already entered into the budget of the levy granted to 2TKK. These duties may be further increased by the government even without amendments to the law, but only the range is determined and a specific number is then determined by the government, as well as by the methodology for this purpose. Finally, this was changed in September 2020, and now it is again among the government's works. Next, I'd say this to my colleague Dimich. The investment programme, written down by the government, foresees the payment of profits only after 2059 and Iva Dimic understood it, I think she accepted it because she believes that the truth is true. But look where the fraction is! Here's the problem. The investment programme is not a regulation, but it is a financial projection and the only binding document is an interstate agreement, which we are also talking about indirectly today; the initiative for concluding the agreement states that the profit can start to be paid as soon as the operation of the second track is ensured. So already in 2026, for which Minister Vrtovec plans to drive Eisenpan on the second track. See, then the government’s claim, “the other country will not become owner or co-owner of the second track by participating in the financing of the project. The owner of the second track, writes the Government, "in any case, 2TKK remains the project". Yes, of course she will be a Hungarian co-owner! I don't think we should be working crazy people. The owner of the second track is 2TKK, co-owner of 2 TDK is Hungary. And if the company owns the infrastructure or the state, for example, I own the company, so I own the infrastructure in the last instance. Next. The Government's warning is this, which I say is not true, "for the sake of a high investment in the course of Divac Koper, it is therefore necessary to ensure that demand for transport along this route is so high that it justifies the investment in the project". See, neighbouring countries, Italy, Croatia, are speeding up railway connections to their North Adriatic ports, and the Government argues that they are strategically linked to the behind countries. That's not true. Neither Croatia nor Italy leave behind their strategic infrastructure issues, Hungary's projects. The lines are updated by a combination of owners and European funds and without Hungarian capital. More! See, Croatia has a lot of bad experience with Hungary, with Hungarian state capital. I would only remind you of the dispute between Croatia and Mol about Ina. And this could also be done by our government, as regards the European funds available at 5.2 billion European funds for recovery and resilience and an additional 5 billion from the European budget, but the government did not anticipate for the second track a single cent of the European funds under these headings. And speaking of Croatia. Croatia will acquire up to 85% of European funds for its routes, the Slovenian government has provided only 25% of European funds for the second track, and the government has earmarked 280 million for railways. And then there's the fourth thing the government claims. See, capital participation in the project company creates a link for rail and port services, as the participating country would be interested in the high accessibility of the railway, as this would also affect the return on its assets in the company. Look, the demand for Luke Koper does not depend on whose property the second track will be, but on whether or not it will be built. This will actually increase because the flow will be faster, not 160 kilometers per hour for freight trains, as some have thought scientifically fantastically. Not for freight trains. The Hungarian Government may influence the Slovenian Democratic Party because it finances its propaganda apparatus, but the Hungarian Government cannot influence the shipowners and carriers, the capital used by the port of Cyprus. Nor can it affect Slovenian, Austrian, Czech, German or Slovak companies which create most of the transhipment in Luka Koper. Hungary is now the third largest, the third largest, Austria, the second, Slovenia with about 30%, the first market, Austria's largest, and only then Hungary. And as many have already told you, with large companies in Hungary that are foreign-owned. So I'll finish. The fact is that Hungary would never give Slovenia 200 million euros to build this railway infrastructure if it did not profit from it. Hungary knows that in view of the projections and growth of the transhipment in Luka Koper, co-ownership of the second track will be a very good business. Not only will her large-income stake be reimbursed and can start to be accounted for in 2026, but I told her first, by which methodology, indeed, but with it four decades de facto, as well as the deiura will receive ownership rights over the key part of Slovenian railway infrastructure, and through decision-making rights she will extend her influence to Slovenia, while at the same time providing 30,000 square metres of space in the port of Kore. Elite space! In short, what has been said so far; the need for Hungary's entry into the 2TKK project is none, the financial structure has been prepared for you, for this government, and stands and is closed. In short, do not do any harm to the state, confirm the proposal of this law, which has been put into the procedure of the Leftist or the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Aleš Mihelič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Just two brief comments, the rest was more or less already said or comes out, clearly, of all documents. Mr Židan's statement that the Director of the MF Budget is to calculate the project's contribution of 250 million or 200 million – I would really like to see this calculation. With the entry of any of the foreign countries, only a smaller capital injection of the Republic of Slovenia is exchanged by the capital injection of one other country. What an impact this can have on stimulating investment, and how interesting it will be! At the same time, I would really like to ask Mr Jewn if he has this information that he is, of course, a country-specific one, so that we can examine it. I'm guessing that's not the case. Mr. Brickler, share of the countries. The initiative is just an opportunity to negotiate with countries. We hope that we will be able to present another initiative in a short time; therefore, we will be able to invite more countries to participate and, accordingly, we will also allocate this possible share of the investment in this project or participation. So it's not fixed yet. Here is just a window where we can negotiate or talk. Paying off the profits. I would really like to ask that from the documents, if there is a multi-page sermon, you do not take it from the context, you read it to the end, and where there is a comma, you continue the sentence, and let me repeat it. “Payment of profits begins in the first business year when the full operation of the infrastructure is ensured”, and there is no point, but it is a comma – “which is the subject of joint investment”, but here is a key milestone “as long as the business result and the liquidity situation of the company allow it.” When they enable this, you can see it in an IP that is the only credible, validated document that indicates the appropriate financial event. Well, only then, not sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has Alexander Reberšek to prepare Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Yes, the rail network and public transport are really obsolete in Slovenia, so in New Slovenia we advocate investment, strong investment in public and private capital, in modernisation of the transport sector. People need to spend less time in traffic congestion, and public transport is the key to this. Finally, one could say, after almost three decades of first thought, the construction of the second track finally began. It is said that the Ministry of Infrastructure is finally working, as is necessary. But, no matter what, now we're calling a meeting quickly, let's fool the Slovenian people a little bit, they said in Levica. Of course, the cup has also been added to the Alenka Bratušek Party and that is why we are here today. The construction of the second track is crucial for the development of Luke Koper and I think we all agree that we should have a second track long ago. But those of you who are the smartest today have all the answers to all the questions, and I don't know what you've been doing all these years leading the Ministry of Infrastructure. Oh, right, you signed the annexes! To get back to today's topic, if anyone's unclear, the second track of course has multiple effects. It is crucial that we ensure the trans-shipment on the second track, not only that we build it, but also that we provide the trans-shipment and that this transfer goes to Luka Koper. However, if Luka Koper is not competitive enough, all the cargo will go to Trieste or River. In parallel with the second track, of course, logistics centres should also be provided and there should be no question in this country either of Luka Koper or Marina Izola. I hope we all understand that. For this reason, the countries behind the ice are crucial to the development of the port of Koper. Without the back countries of Luke Koper we don't really need, nor do we need another track. But we must not rule out any of the countries behind us. There's one thing I'd like to point out. I don't know if you're aware of this, but after the government's decision in 2019 in Trieste, Hungary bought 100 million euros of development shores for its own cargo, and that's to the detriment of Luka Koper. The longer we delay and close in this place, the worse it will be for our port and the greater advantage it will be for competition. In Italy, of course, they do not wonder who is in power. I don't really care who's in power, either. Orban will not last forever, but Hungary will always be our neighbor. That's a fact and that's what counts. I have already said that this government is working, and this government is, of course, supporting efforts to develop Slovenian logistics. It is necessary to increase the capacity from the current 90 trains to 231 trains per day and from 14 million tonnes to 43.4 million tonnes per year; to reduce the travel time between Divaca and Kopro by at least 30 minutes and, of course, the travel distance from 45 kilometres to 27.1 kilometers. A well-connected and functioning transport infrastructure is extremely important for the Slovenian economy, so we must, of course, strengthen this network to be more resilient to crises in the future. And while we are happily discussing here, of course they are already building fast in Croatia, restoring railway infrastructure from the river from Hungary, it is said that in some ways we are also competing with time. The logistics center is also being built in Beljak, and this will be the back centre for a large open port. We need to build a partnership with the back countries, because they can get past us. Because they can get past us! But not to shout empty wings In Slovenia we are the master. Only this, of course, will do us no good if we are cut off from the world. True, in Slovenia we are the master, but we must also take into account the Slovenian anthem, "not the devil, only the neighbour will be the magician". I would also like to stress this in view of the constant and numerous attacks today by Ambassador Alenka Bratušek. The concession regulation, which was also adopted by the Ministry of Alenka Bratušek, Article 11 of the Regulation on concessions for the construction and management of the second rail track of Divac– Koper, provides, inter alia, for "the concessionaire must, within the framework of the availability for the construction of the second track, use in particular the available resources of the budget of the European Union and the capital contributions of the shareholders or shareholders, and only if the other resources provided for by the law are not sufficient". It is also true that Hungary, as a potential partner in the project, started informal negotiations in the first half of 2018. I kind of understand Alenko Bratusek. For various reasons, Hungary is very hated among the voters of the Slovenian left-wing constituency. Given that Alenka Bratušek has been well below the parliamentary threshold for a long time to work very hard to compete with the other left-wing parties for these voters, I think it is clear to every reasonable person that today's meeting is intended for this exact fight by Alenka Bratušek for the parliamentary threshold and for political survival. It could also be called cheap populism and nothing else. The fact is, the second track is excellent for the battle, for collecting political points, especially for throwing pollen under the feet, for stopping a project with which we have been late for a very long time. The investment programme, which was adopted on 24 January 2019, is at the time of Minister Alenka Bratušek and is exactly the same as the concession regulation, already foresees the participation of the frozen country in the financial construction of the project. I repeat, the investment programme was adopted on 24 January 2019, when Minister Alenka Bratušek was Minister. All clear? So stop playing with that cheap populism. You showed your actions when you were in power. You've sealed the third development axis with a connection in Schentrupert. I am still opposed to the third development axis with the connection to Kentrupert, because I know that there is a much cheaper, environmentally more acceptable route, and above all a faster route. By the way, Ambassador Andrej Reich speaks frankly about the receipt of a commission from the sale of land. That's your policy. Apparently, your actions are as close as your Annexes are. Today I really admire your pompous performance and your concern, Alenka Bratušek, for your tax money. Where was your concern when you signed a half-million-dollar annex to the construction company just before you stepped down? But you weren't worried at the time! What I think is very important and I would like to stress in particular is what Minister Jernej Vrtovec said, that we will not allow any overpayments to come. The second track won't be Teš 6. Please, Alenka Bratušek, tell us the second time that you love Hungary, because it brings you electoral votes. And that's why we're here today, too, that the people watching this will be confused that they'll get the feeling that we're doing something wrong. But we do what we should have done a long time ago when you were in power, and you didn't do it. For the end, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, tell our citizens how many times you went to China in your mandate. Whose interests you've been defending, Your Honor, Alenka Bratusek, tell me. I believe that Hungary would be replaced by Chinese, namely Chinese, who do not respect European labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. Let's get Ljubo Žnidar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Today we are considering the amendment of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača railway line, which provides for the final closure of the possibility of one of the countries entering co-investment in the second track project. I don't think that's a good idea, not at all, and I'll explain. First, I would refer to a broader geostrategic framework of the route, the geographical location of this route to the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor and also to the Mediterranean Corridor. It is also in the interest of the countries of the European Union to finally build this second track, to be functional and to contribute to better connectivity, because of this location, of this geographical location. An additional argument, the route coincides with the Three Seas initiative, which strengthens the infrastructure connectivity of EU Member States to the north-south axis. This is also a priority and should also be seen from a geostrategic point of view, or from a cooperative and positive perspective, which can lead to the participation of other countries, the Western countries, both to the financial construction of the project itself and later to the business interest of our greatest logistics, Luka Koper. Why this is not yet a good idea, this law of today — the financial burden on taxpayers. Our assessment is that the correct vision of this government is to share the financial burden among all users of the second track, because not only our companies and our logistics will be the ones who will use this second track, but the logistics of the companies of the latter countries, as this will also enable them to continue their economic development. For our needs, for the needs of our economy, the existing one-tier is probably enough when looking for opportunities for growth, for the development of our economy and also for the growth of pre-shipment in Luka Koper, but it is important to be aware that there is a very strong competition here with other North Adriatic ports, with Trieste and River, and there is a need to strengthen the competitive decency of Luka Koper. As far as the financial contribution itself is concerned, the potential investment of another country's foreign partner. It is the entry into the ownership structure of the project company 2TKK and not the sale of our railway infrastructure, so it is necessary to be very precise here in terms of expression and I would like to not be misled anymore. Why isn't this marriage a good idea? Next. It is a matter of playing with business and strategic interests both in the Republic of Slovenia and in Luke Koper. Indeed, at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, the then Minister of Infrastructure carried out or proposed, and was then adopted, the so-called Guarantee Act for this investment at the same time in the same package with the guarantee for the Third Development Axis project. That was one of such, very valuable internal political pirage, and today it is continued in this direction by Levic with the introduction of this novel. It falsely promotes some national interest that you are a defender and prevent the sale of strategic transport infrastructure, but I fear that you do not really know how modern economic flows are going, how important long-term strategic, including interstate partnerships that somehow bind or bring together important and long-term transactions. And all of this will allow for the further growth and development of Luke Koper, which you are literally threatening with today's law. I would like to remind you that already in the government of Mira Cerar, the financial structure was closed, and this was without guarantee, but it anticipated a financial contribution from the icy state. I do not think that as former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Cerar, you can see any partnership or friendship with Mr Orbán, but he was led by a sincere interest in doing something good for the development of the Slovenian economy. After that failed internal political piranha with the guarantee, when Hungarians withdrew for a certain period of time, we were able to revive the talks with them, but now we are back before the next station. He wants to shut himself down, or he wants to reverse the possibility of further development and further discussions in the field. Perhaps only today has a number of mention been made of certain conditions regarding the commercial lease of land in the back of Luka Koper as one of the preconditions for Hungary's participation. Now, if this business lease is problematic, then you really have no idea of the reality of the economy and that you are translating it into a sale of the Slovenian coast, it is really depressed. I would like to further explain why it is necessary or very well to preserve the possibility of entry into the project by the Western State. The good part of the partnership is to reduce the financial burden of the project and take over the relative part of all project and business risks. The reports are not guaranteed, as was said by the representative of the Government, they depend on the success of the entire project and, just as important, an economic balance is being created, the possibility of greater competitiveness of the Slovenian logistics economy is being increased, as we know in the immediate vicinity of both neighbouring countries that the railways of the link will be rapidly built around the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, greater financial and business control of the project will not be necessary to avoid repeating some bad practice of large state investment projects if we just remember TES6. Now, specifically, Hungarian cooperation, Hungarian input, why would it be important? Hungary is the sixth most important trading partner of the Republic of Slovenia, until recently the second most important business partner of Luke Koper and, as the State Secretary has already said, the volume of business with Hungary has also decreased due to some awkward past decisions and has fallen to third place and part of the deal has been taken by Hungarian companies also due to the guarantee law to a competitive port of commerce. Today, however, with this government, we have the chance to correct this mistake of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, then Minister of Infrastructure. If we are looking at it, we need to look at the issue in a multiplicity and long-term way, the partnership brings in particular opportunities for growth and development of Luke Koper, and only a mathematical summation of the one-off funding costs is a very short-sighted act. He who does this does not have any idea of the strategic backgrounds and the way in which big business today is concluded and managed on the basis of various interstate interventions. As it is said, if we were to limit it today, to substitute for the law the possibility of cooperation between the Iberian State, this would automatically impose a greater burden on taxpayers. I will conclude that the guarantee of the second track project has already been some sort of adventure under the burden of taxpayers, and fortunately this has not yet meant the final withdrawal of some of the outlying countries, of the cooperation of the hinter countries. Today, however, the proposed legal exclusion of a foreign investor would indeed be a national disaster and a threat to national economic interests and, from this point of view, an issue, if you so like to use that word in Levica. On the contrary, I even believe that it would be good or necessary to attract other icy countries, as mentioned above, on the Blatik-Adriatic Corridor line. Finally, the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia itself also provides for a strengthened role and enhanced foreign policy activities in order to strengthen the geostrategic and economic situation of the port of Koper. Negotiations, of course, must be kept secret to a certain extent, cannot be disclosed in advance, then there is no possibility of a good deal or they are falling in negotiations. Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Policy, at the end of last year, gave a green light to the negotiations in the framework of the negotiating venues. I stress, it was an initiative, and for this initiative, the government received a green light. At that time, these negotiating points were marked by a degree of secrecy. I do not know if they have been made public today or whether this rate has been withdrawn, but I would point out that it was a violation of the Secret Data Act when this secret document of internal origin came to the public in its entirety and was, to a certain extent, in any event threatened the national economic interest of our country. However, I would just like to recall the final word on Hungary's participation or any other hinterland in the project, of course, will have a National Assembly which will decide on the ratification of the law which will allow for the participation of any hinterland. Therefore, today, a law that basically eliminates any possibility of foreign participation in a second track project in advance, of course, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich and get Love Žnidar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! On 23 May, it will be exactly 67 years since the establishment of the port of Koper. Since then, the port of Koper, the port of Koper, has grown and developed and since 1967 has been connected to the world also with the railway infrastructure and, of course, we deserve Slovenia and Slovenia, our ancestors, who have shown that they know and can do things themselves. And look, we are now also a member of the European Union, as well as Luka Koper is further developing and integrating into this European space and is also taking advantage of all the advantages of this large common market. In fact, it is also one of the most important entry points of foreign shipowners coming mainly from Asian places, namely China, so it should be stressed that 80% of the cargo comes from Asian ends, China, and these are our most important partners in this regard. It is also right for ministers to go where the cargo originates and attract it to Slovenia. True, the cargo goes into the icy states and the route, that is, the section between Kopro and Hodhos is about 400 kilometers long. But of course we are also talking about the second track project, which is a good 20km track, and this input we're talking about, 200 million, which will have to be paid at least that much interest, allows the construction of about 5 kilometers of railway line, 5 kilometers on the 400km section. So we're saying that someone with a cartridge that allows you to build one percent of the length of the rail line into the system will introduce a strategic disruption to a 400 - km - long section. What kind of strategic partner is this, I wonder. One percent of the length of the line at 400 kilometers. Please! We have strategic infrastructure, we have a European legal order that allows all carriers, on an equal basis, to carry out traffic on our tracks on a non-discriminatory basis. And now someone thinks that if one percent gets a strategic partner – yes, a strategic partner who will introduce strategic disorder and interests into the system. Hungary has purely legal and legitimate interests from its point of view, but these interests are not necessarily our interests. Imagine that someone at the Suez Canal would allow either the Egyptian government or the state to control its Suez Canal, Panamanian Panama Canal, and the United Kingdom to pass through the Gibraltar Margin. We are talking about these things and we want to simply prevent them. The financial structure is complete, it's good, it's confirmed. And now that there's a deal, someone just looking for their interests doesn't know why. This is what is problematic and, of course, we are opposed to it. And it's true, there are some things left in there, but if we look at the financial structure that we've completed, and then someone thinks, it's going to change, and it's going to go wrong, of course, it's not good. It's actually a mess. I would, however, respond to the words of my colleague Rebersk, who is talking about the third development axis. The third development axis was established by Nova Slovenija in the government of Janez Janša in 2004–2008. I believe you, Comrade Reberšek, have a hard time because you probably walked from door to door and promised people that there would be no route, and even more so now that the Minister, after Alenka Bratusek has done everything in the role of Minister, that matters in accordance with the law will go on and on, it brings you into your affairs of unrest. Also in terms of support, public support for the SAB, don't worry, support is growing, members are coming to us, and your support is falling. You have also been reminded of this by Mrs Ludmila Novak, whom I very much respect. Your voters are going to the SDS and this is what Mrs Ludmila Novak reminded you and that is probably why you sent her to the penal office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica has Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that again. I'll be very quick and short. At first, I wondered whether there was anything to respond to, but to the Member of Parliament, who then said at the meeting that we all knew that a commission was to be obtained in the sale of land. You know that at the Alenka Brother Party, I don't know that. But still, I wanted to give some explanations about the third developmental axis, because there's always something ping-pongamo. I am sure that I have the support of the people on the ground, the support of the Joint Civil Initiatives, and we are working together against the connection in Schentrupert, I have already told you why, and I am also fighting this stupid installation of the route to the best of my ability. The Court of Auditors is currently revising this route. I will never fail, I will never fail, and I will never deny my constituents, and what I have said in the opposition, I am also doing now that we are in the coalition. By the time Alenka Bratušek was Minister, however, she was very quick to proceed, which means that already in her mandate the land had begun to be redeemed, and there was a great deal of hurry at that time. But as I said, I'm still a fighter for a faster built, cheaper and more environmentally acceptable route with connections to Kentrupert. As far as the polls are concerned, the only thing I would say here is that today's meeting is dedicated to your client's calendar, often when you say Hungary or the slogans against Hungary, your voters will be jumping into the air, and that's why we have these meetings that won't bring anything in the end. You play these cards that the word Hungary among the voters of the left-hand sex is very much hated, and therefore you refer not only to this session but also to all the other sessions. On the other hand, I personally appreciate Ludmila Novak, our European Ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Does he have the word Procedural? [[..]] Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u68	Look, I'm sorry, but let's stick to the rules of procedure. Here we talk and argue about who has the support, who has no support, who gets the support, but in fact this law is the theme. And that became a kindergarten. Please, President, follow the rules of procedure and remind each debater to stick to what he has announced. And if he has a replica, let him replicate on the subject, not on who has the support, who falls, who has the electorate, who holds on to something. I mean, I'm sorry, but the level of debate has fallen under every possible line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. It is true and I call on all Members and Members to respect the Rules of Procedure and to discuss only the agenda item on the agenda. My love, Žnidar has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Maria Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! See if we can pour some pure wine, take a look back. I'd say because some of your colleagues have kind of a very short memory, and for those with really short memories, there are magnetograms. I would say that Mrs Janja Slug should look at the tapegram, because she was then happy to support this law to look at her debates, and today I would say that she spits enormously after what she then adopted, confirmed, debated and so on. So here's a way to check if you're not quite sure, look back at the magnetogram and see a little bit about your actions. So much for constructiveness and facts and some misdirection. Look, basically, here I am thinking about the proposer, you should know, I would say what the economy is, what partnership is, and if you're not somehow from this area, you're having a hard time discussing and you're very hard to constructive. I don't know if any of the Members have any working days in the economy. Because here we just have to have economic and business latitude. Perhaps I should first suggest some field trip to some successful Slovenian economic society that has a foreign partner. Ask the Director of the highest management authority why he has contacted a foreign partner; or, in order to increase the scope of his work and ensure his business, or, in order to reduce his workload, or to increase his profits, or to reduce his business, he will give you an answer. Well, so little for some basic orientation, what it means to have economic latitude, what it means to have business latitude. Especially if you come from one really small country called Slovenia, where in today's global, global market with your own littleness you are very difficult to survive. And so it is on major infrastructure projects in the Republic of Slovenia. See, when the Eastern countries from us were in the development phase, traffic in Luka Koper and, of course, freight on the railways grew somehow spontaneously from year to year. These countries have developed today, are moving in the same direction today with all European developed countries, and such potential development will no longer be the case with them. And automatic growth in Luka Koper, and I would also say automatic growth in freight transport by rail, is not expected in the future. It is true that the last two years, this is said to be last year and this year, are less real in both segments. We know that there are exceptional situations caused by the covid-19 epidemic here, but we also need to be aware that we have very strong, very severe competition here in neighbouring countries; particularly in Croatia and Italy. Italy intensively reconstructs and increases capacity on four North Adriatic ports. I'd say we're a little lucky that the port on the river can't spread that much because they're unable to extend to the sea because of an extremely large depth. In short, Italy is building a fast track, modernising the railway line, and in fact Slovenia will have to respond very quickly to the construction of not only the second track, including by updating the other railway corridor, the so-called fifth, the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, because only a segment of 20 kilometers does not solve all the rail freight in Slovenia. The capacity in the port of Koper will also need to be increased urgently, and the possibilities have already been indicated that the actual 22 million tonnes will increase once, somewhere to 43 million tonnes per year. That's what they say. They're reserves, but they're not self-sustaining. Business partners need to be provided, and larger partners abroad need to be linked where business cooperation can be planned in the future. No one says that business cooperation will go to any harm to Slovenia. Look, I'm not going to repeat this, because I think today has already been said six times by those five conditions that are stated in the law, under which conditions a foreign partner may enter. And all you talk about here today is Hungary. All right, well, Hungary is one of the countries that has given the initiative the intention of business cooperation. I would appeal here to the Government and to the Ministry to contact as many countries as possible, to somehow ensure this business cooperation and that Luka Koper will be able to have more traffic in the future, but not to find out somehow that competition has overtaken us and that we are not actually as successful here as we were in the past as we were in the transport of Slovenian railways. Let me answer the next one. We strongly opposed the adoption of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. To put it clearly and loudly, we strongly opposed the first version of the law. See the explanation for this law, where the investment value of the second indent was EUR 850 million. Take a look at the paperwork. We have opposed enormously exaggerated, overestimating this investment. And you wanted to pass that assessment on to the marriage or was already transferred to the marriage, which is why we were so strongly opposed. Look, it's very clear at what price a mile of highway is built and at what price a kilometer of tunnel is built. And with every one of ours, I'd say a sharp protest then every two months, the investment went down 200 million. In the end, the investment fell, if I speak without tax, below the value of one billion. This was the great, great success of the SDS Group – we have reduced the investment from billions of 850 below a billion. Now it's being estimated, it's going to be about a billion and 250, if I put it over my thumb like that, with a tax. That's why it was an objection. And if that first version of this law were adopted, with the kind of proposal you came in at the time, it would be a great legal place for me with a legal basis. That's when we stopped it. And we went to the referendum because of an abnormally high investment rating. The investment assessment is now realistic, it has put itself within normal frameworks, and therefore it is not possible to oppose the law now. Look at the magnetograms, if you don't remember, they're all recorded and archived. So much for these readings. Read the material, magnetograms exist and are part of the archives of the National Assembly. And as in the economy, it is also for state investments; business performance in the future must be ensured both for Luka Koper and for the carrier, such as the Slovenian Railways. This is the main purpose of the partnership to find a partner abroad. Once again, I appeal to the Ministry, find someone else to come up with an initiative to participate in our biggest projects. And we're not selling out! The definitions and criteria are very clear and precise. Urgently, in fact, we are late, I would say, in all these segments both at Luka Koper and at the construction itself. I want the performer to do his job successfully and to do his job in hand. He's got a very difficult assignment. I am from this construction area and I know that it will be very difficult to catch these hands which are contractually determined; very difficult, very hard to do so. But I think it's real. Here I want everything good and that we will actually get results as soon as possible, such as the completion of the second track construction, which we know will be a phase, that another tube will be added, which is, of course, good and absolutely necessary, and let us not forget the port of Koper, which will have to follow the new trends by increasing its trans-shipment capacity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. With regard to these economic perceptions or that the applicants do not understand the economy. Why don't you guys recalculate things for yourself? Now the first thing you insist on leaving a foreign country to own a company called 2TKK is something that will increase business and deepen strategic interests. That's Larifari, that's bullshit. I've already told you why. It is not Slovenia that regulates the routes that lead through the port of Cyprus and then further, Hungary is not the one who sends trains to Kopra, but it is logistics, freight forwarders and so on, companies that are in the interest of getting their goods to wherever they can, and in doing so they have absolutely no connection. This is highlighted only by logistics and operators and so on, who insist that it is pointless at a time when the country can build cheaper, and this is also, if you want, an economic argument. I don't know, but we can build something cheaper than promising additional capacity in Luka plus interest on this deposit 200 million Hungary, that's nonsense. Whether it's economic analphabetism or it's intentional damage, now you decide what you're doing. Once again, Luke is the one who cares about communication with his partners, and you know that he works with virtually all Central European countries and tries to be neutral from this point of view. And that's her business advantage. The geographical location is also the advantage of Luke Koper and these are the things that allow the transshipment to increase. This is an investment in the future, in the development of logistics and in the development of the entire Slovenian economy, but not to include Hungary or any other country with particles in the ownership structure of 2TKK, which is not even the one managing the track, but is the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure. Thus, these arguments fall completely. Even if Hungary had the power to regulate these flows, the Slovenian Railways Infrastructure is the ones that guide these routes and manage the second track, so that unless you intend to leave the Infrastructure somehow to Hungary then this argument is completely null and void. As far as Croatia and Italy are concerned, they are ahead of us. Here I can agree that they are working hard both Croatia and Austria to ensure a better initial advantage, but here you are peacefully forgetting that none of these two countries has made an update of their railway infrastructure in such a way that they build these things with Hungary. On the contrary! They build themselves and build with funds from the European Union; what Slovenia does not do. Croatia will acquire up to 85 per cent of European funds for its routes, for the second track you have provided only 25 per cent of European funds and in the National Roadmap for Resistance and Recovery is not in fact a second track. And there would still be a lot of maneuverable space to reach. Thus, with this basic simple economic aspect that you are advocating, it is necessary to go into an interstate agreement with another country and offer it interest or payment of profits and, in fact, some interest-bearing loan at a rate of 3 % to return this deposit and so on, it is also pointless from this economic point of view. It has been shown that, at this point in time, it is possible to build this thing on its own with favourable financial resources on markets, which, once again, are the current interest rates on loans of 0 %, the bonds are issued at a negative interest rate. If you only want to look at the economic aspect, this is the best thing right now. But geostrategic infrastructure interest is also involved. It is in the interests of each country that it has control over its infrastructure and tell me how many countries in this area are building such a small part of the strategic infrastructure in this part of Europe and which would be co-owned by another country for half. It is simply stupid, simply stupid and, of course, also contrary to the strategic interests of Slovenia. And if you've talked before about how it's kind of patriotism to ensure the best possible management of Luke Koper. Look, it's not enough to wave flags, but it's really necessary to look at things more broadly, and I take it that you don't believe us as proponents or me personally, but look what the representatives of Luke Koper say, what the logists say, what the freight forwards say. Everyone will tell you it's stupid to give for 45 years a half of 2TKK to some foreign country. Simple, but contrary to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get the mag ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I quote, "if we succeed, fine, if we fail, we don't". We have heard this today, and this basically tells us how the current government is talking about some of the most important projects in the history of Slovenia, a project of exceptional strategic importance, many of which we have been waiting for for for at least 20 years. If we were able to hear the Secretary of State say today that if we fail, that is not a problem, we are talking only about the entry of the icy state into the ownership structure, so you said today, then I do not understand why we would not support the proposal that is currently under consideration, i.e. the bill. I really don't understand. If it is not so important for you to succeed in getting the back state inside, then I do not understand why you cannot accept the proposaler's intention and performance, which speaks of the fact that it is imperative not to allow the return of the frozen country to the ownership infrastructure. Therefore, this law removes the possibility of entering the icy state into the ownership infrastructure of 2TKK, as this is not necessary either from an economic and strategic point of view because the financial structure is closed. We have heard this many times in recent months, because it is only logical that Slovenia remains the sole owner of its own strategic infrastructure and that anything else would actually be a kind of unique in the European Union, and because it is also in the interest of Luke Koper. Since it is not Slovenia's job to be a window in the world of Hungary, it is definitely not Slovenia's task, but it is Slovenia's task to exercise its strategic interests and to make the investment a second track with its own resources through smart indebtedness. And the only legitimate partnership, I repeat, would be with Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. Now, simply all the other proposals and, above all, Hungary's entry actually means de facto issuing national interests and returning some services that have been done through some secret agreements and agreements. It is undeniable that the second track is a key infrastructure for Luka Koper and for the further development of the Slovenian logistics sector. The potential entry of Hungarian capital could, in fact, pose a very serious threat to the status and existence of Luke Koper and at least 400 companies, which are directly or directly linked to Luka Koper and thousands of jobs, and we can definitely stress that the situation of Luke Koper would be threatened, as we have heard more than once today the applicant, under what conditions they have joined. That was clearly said. So, Slovenia will help Hungary acquire 30,000 square metres of land in or near the Port of Koper concession area. And no matter how urgent Luke Koper needs all the land. It's a public fact again. This has often been highlighted on their part. Then we wonder whose interests you are essentially protecting, whether Luka Koper is important to you or not in this context, whether it is important to provide them with a space for development or someone else. Today's proposed law therefore, as I have already mentioned, follows two objectives; maintaining the strategic railway connection Divac– Koper and 2TDK owned by the Republic of Slovenia and reducing the indirect and direct costs of financing the construction and operation of the second track. Well, this is undoubtedly in the strategic interest of Slovenia and it is not clear to me how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can oppose such a law or such aims of the law. My firm, truly firm belief is that we should try to carry out the project ourselves and that I do not understand how any other partners can be looked for when you did not need it. You really didn't have to do that. So, of course, we all wonder what's behind it. The fact that the construction of the infrastructure, i.e. the second track, will still generate a significantly increased transhipment through Luka Koper; and it needs it. And that is why it is also very double today to hear that Luka Koper needs the entry of the icy country, which will be a strategic partner, which will then allow for further transhipment. That's not true! We have heard the proposaler, and I will also read to you what the logists say about it, because it is the logists who can tell us, not the politicians who do not deal directly with it. If the logists say so, I quote, “ logistics and commodity flows do not make the country. [[…]] Customers choose logistics services on the basis of speed, reliability, efficiency, in particular prices and security, ” points out the director of the logistics shipping company Fining and the president of the Port Forwarders Section. [[…]] In view of the fact that countries do not control the flow of goods, but are directed by so-called globalists, that is, the senders, recipients, freight forwarders, only the provision of conditions remains for countries to attract these flows, since the state has no direct influence on this, there is no reason for them to leave their tasks to anyone. The task of the State is to maintain good relations with neighbouring countries, and especially in Luka Koper, the status of neutrality is important; therefore, that one country has never been preferred before another country. And if, in the context of this, you allow Hungary to enter, of course, you place the other countries in some unequal position and here loses the status of neutrality of Luke Koper, and this also creates a key problem for Luke's future business. And this cannot be in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and even less of Luke Koper. Since the fact is that no country that would join this project would enter because of having some, I will say, good purposes in the context, let us help Slovenia, but of course it will want to implement its strategic goals, its background or as we have heard today in the position, Hungary would be the Port of Koper window into the world. Of course, that's not how it's supposed to be. This should never be the interest of Slovenia. Slovenia's only interest should be and should remain the owner of its key infrastructure, especially when it does not need to look for other ways when it does not need to find partners. Because today, after this whole discussion, I still haven't heard a legitimate answer why it would be necessary to look for the countries behind us as strategic partners, except for some excuses about the trans-shipment that we don't need, because that's what the profession is telling us. I would still read here, because we have once again politicised a question which should not be fundamentally politicised in this context. I would also like to read what the Jurassic Union says about this: “In recent months, we have often heard very flat-rate and unprofessional statements of politicians about the competitiveness of the port of Cyprus, which have no basis in reality and business. Foreign-country inputs to public rail infrastructure cannot contribute to the competitiveness of the port of Cyprus, but can have the opposite effect to a greater extent. The reckless playing of politics with more than a 60-year-old heritage of the company, which has grown with the effort and abandonment of many generations of workers, is dangerous for the thousands of people who depend on it for life, while at the same time a sad display of the fact that for five minutes of glory before the lights and the proud flickering of the shoulders on the dice is not only about the reputation and competitiveness of the port of Koper, but about the maritime integrity and sovereignty of Slovenia, to which we are especially proud in our region.” And already this call and letter should be enough to give up your intention and it is clear to you that the real strategic goal of Slovenia must be only one: to develop Luka Koper, to remain the sole owner of your key infrastructure and to preserve all jobs that are somehow linked to Luka Koper. I myself will support the proposed law because I believe that the objectives it pursues are legitimate, that it is an economic law and that it follows the preservation of Slovenia's fundamental strategic objectives. That's what the government should be following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Aleš Mihelič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to respond to a quote that was clearly excluded from the context or misunderstood. Whether or not to negotiate with Hungary will be a war. This was merely meant in view of the financial design, feasibility of the project and the operation of the project. So, whether one country enters or fails, the project will be implemented, so the implementation of the project is not jeopardised. But when we talk about land acquisition itself, when it's been quoted as saying that we're going to make sure. I think it is right that we provide Luke Koper with suitable land, that this is also being developed properly. In this mandate, we have provided 125 thousand square metres of additional areas that may be intended to expand the concession area or other activities. So we guarantee everything that Luka Koper as a shareholder society needs and wants for its development. More. In short, we have more in stock. I think that this has been a long process of failure for about 8 years, which we have now managed to resolve and reached an agreement with the Municipality of Ankara on the purchase of land. So we also say that when it comes to the potential acquisition of land, we have always stressed that this is happening under market conditions, so for all of them equal accessibility, so we do not prefer any. No one will be given anything directly. So there's not gonna be a wrong impression that we're giving anything to anyone. Once again, I stress that this is a matter of two completely separate matters; one is the beginning of talks with Hungary; I hope that we will be able to do the same for other countries – the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia ; in short, all those countries for which you have correctly found that Luka Koper represents a window into the world and we want it to remain so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The replica of Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u78	Thank you. I guess you didn't understand me. I said I quoted you and told you you said if it worked out okay, if it didn't work out okay. Which means that the entry of a strategic partner into the project is also not necessary from your point of view to maintain the financial structure; and that is what we are saying and we are following it and you have just confirmed it. With regard to the additional land at Luka Koper, I will also read again from the letter of the Žeravist Syndicate, which says you told us what you additionally assured, okay, commending, but still, there you want to provide 30,000 square meters extra for rent. [[…]] This condition is also unacceptable because the port of Cyprus, because Luka Koper today needs blood to develop all the land in the vicinity or within the state spatial plan, so this is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u79	Secretary of State Aleš Mihelič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u80	Whether it is successful or not, from the financial structure yes, we are talking about synergies or the effects of partnership cooperation that could have positive effects and we believe that they would. But when we talk about the land and such capacities of Luke Koper, I don't know where else the information that Luka Koper bloodyly needs additional land is that the opinion of the union or the administration of Luke Koper is, I don't know, but the formal position of Luke Koper as a shareholder company when we started buying those 125 thousand square meters, for one part, this was a cassette 5 A within the concession area were very interested, for the remaining two parts that we bought below, where the idea was that the Republic of Slovenia would buy land, invest in land, and Luke Koper was not interested in it because they said that they currently have enough land. I don't know. I obviously have a formal opinion from the board of directors, obviously, but maybe the union has a different opinion. But I think that, here's the society that makes politics and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! I am one of those who has always wholeheartedly advocated the construction of the second track, even when today's coalition Members and Members of Parliament have fervently rejected it, and today we have a problem that only one specific state imposes itself as the only solution, as the best solution. And yes, the best, but for them, not for us. We are in a time of favourable financial loans on the market, and at a time when it is actually made for almost negative interest or almost, we offer Hungarian partners 38% profit on investment capital. This seems absolutely unheard of at this time, today, wasteful and also irresponsible. I wonder why we give rich gifts to those who actually finance the division of our society, because we have this data and we perceive these phenomena, especially because we have a financial structure closed for the second track; as they say, 200 million up or down, the rest is already ensured, and such a case is not in the European Union as a whole, that key or important infrastructure is left to long-term management almost in another country's own. At the same time, we have a new moment that, with the new perspective of the Fund for Recovery and Resistance of Slovenia, EUR 5 billion is available, and I think that this could give wise leaders, who are naturally committed to their nation as a whole, one new aspect of looking at this problem, that is to say and looking for another solution, or the joy of what suddenly seems unnecessary and more. But I am also afraid that there is a trap in the transfer of returns to 2TKK, to management rights in 2TKK and finally to ownership of the second track for almost half of the century. It's an absolute too long period, it's too much, and if we think about it a little bit, I'm not from a nationalist party, but it's borderline on someone almost high. This idea of providing a regular customer or user is legitimate and operational, but when you provide a 60 percent discount to someone as a regular customer for half a century, then you ask yourself, well, who collects cream here. We know that the actions are given on a day, two, a week, for example, in a store, we know what is accomplished, we also use stocks, we don't break the goods, but so senseless and unfair to our people, and it seems to me that it is worth considering. It makes absolutely no sense to us to provide income to another foreign country through our resources. One may gain something by doing so, a minority, but a large majority will lose and will lose, especially because Hungary requires us to commit to tied transactions, which will naturally increase funding costs. So during this cheap capital period, Slovenia should pay a lot more and wonder why. I'm not asking for an answer. He's clear. Hungary also requires privileged access to the track and this is problematic because it can generate more problems than it can solve. It is very difficult for us to predict possible developments, and in this case every problem is solved in an international court, where – we already know – we are on thin ice; we have no luck, we cannot present our arguments, the arbitrators do not understand our agenda. Basically, this is not to be relied on, because it is unlikely that anyone in such a dispute will be able to attach to us and we cannot count on anyone's benevolence, just to pay for the costs of justice. The problem of today's debate is the possible consequences of the Hungarian government's influence on our political space, not least, and this is already to some extent reflected in the media, in this publication of an agenda which we do not like and should, in fact, be unacceptable. That's why I don't think we need friends from abroad if we're being forced, for example, by our kind of dictatorship; but if we agree to pay a fat price for it, then maybe we deserve a dictatorship. Therefore, to avoid the traps they set us up, I simply cannot help but support this bill because I allow myself to think half a century further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The construction of the second railway track between Divaca and Kopro is a key project and investment, not only for the competitiveness of Luka Koper, but also for Slovenian railways; that is, it is also in the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, in the interest of other countries in the immediate neighbourhood. This project is already good or almost 25 years old, and finally, when I hoped that there was no more dilemma about the second track and the closed financial structure, we were again before it got complicated; and that is just at the time of the entry of the behind countries. When this law was passed, I had great doubts about the entry of the countries behind this project, but the matter went through, the law was passed, and I absolutely must say today that I support this amendment of this law, because it shows what nonsense was adopted at the time. I must say that I am extremely pleased that the first works have finally begun on the second track, but this is a complication with this re-agreement and the rebuilding of the Iberian State in investing financial resources in the Republic of Slovenia or in particular what has been dealt with in the Committee on European Affairs 12. 11. 2020, it's crazy for me. For me, this agreement, which we have dealt with or which you have had, is very damaging, is absolutely threatening to the strategic interests of Slovenia. However, I think it can also happen to us that we will have difficulties in drawing on European funds as well as loans from the European Investment Bank. If I touch that it is utopian to expect that, in the case of this particular agreement, which we have, where the State of Hungary is specifically mentioned, to enter into such an investment with a good purpose towards the Republic of Slovenia, I think we are seriously mistaken, because every small or large enterprise is looking at its investment in terms of profit. Each first makes a cost-benefit analysis and only after receiving the result is it decided to invest or invest. If I touch on this initiative for the conclusion that Hungary will invest EUR 200 million in the ownership structure of 2TKK, and at the same time provide a 38% equity share, not all of which continue to receive Hungary's remaining profits, which will not otherwise exceed the 3% of the company's core capital each time, you really wonder where this is going. This means that the Hungarian capital injection will be an expensive loan to be paid in the coming years. This also means that Hungary, in addition to the value of its profits, will, of course, get the capital gains back and, as I said, it will be an excellent cost-benefit analysis that they have done. And absolutely, of course, an agreement that had already been submitted, then they withdrew and now they are entering again, they want to enter into this, of course it is very convenient for them. But look at the fraction, that's not all! Slovenia will also help Hungary to rent storage facilities in the area of the port of Koper within at least 30,000 square metres. Yes, of course, it sounds good that the last country will help build a second track, but with this, I believe that the strategic interest of Slovenia will be compromised. Why am I saying that? See, we have received from the Confederation of Trade Unions of 90 Slovenia to strongly support this law, which will prevent unnecessary, harmful and for the country more expensive entry of foreigners into a project which may result in far-reaching negative consequences not only for Slovenian railways, but also for Luka Koper and strategically for the Republic of Slovenia in general. This is what we have received as comments today and it is absolutely necessary to take this into account and to think about it. I will also touch on the fact that if you remember what happened in the neighbouring country, it is said that Hungary, which would now like to join this project. There, of course, they sold and broadcast state infrastructure. And look at the fraction of what they soon found to be harmful. And what are they doing today? For the interests of citizens and citizens with harmful interests, this infrastructure is being bought back! Haven't we really learned anything? Don't we really look around the world a little bit? I must say that I absolutely object to such a sale by Slovenia, so I really urge that we adopt this law today, which will prevent the entry of the behind countries. Of course, as has already been mentioned several times today, it is important to look at that Luka Cope has as much as possible the flow of goods, in order to actually provide ourselves with countries that will transport through Luka Koper, but of course they are logists here. Logisticians are looking for the most favourable ways, the fastest, the cheapest, and this is not what the state is doing. It is therefore necessary to give all countries the opportunity: Germany, Austria, Italy and Hungary to somehow enter the port of Koper, all under the same conditions, but not to have any better conditions for any country. Once again; I absolutely support this law, which is true, in the right place, and I hope that all of us together in this national assembly will overlook and not adopt any harmful law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get Franz Rosec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. If I'm going to go to the breadth, what should we learn from the global covid-19 epidemic? For the first time that we are living in a global system as a complete system; as the logic of a closed system, I would say my mentor academic Mlinar. And second, of course, even from those stories of trucks that are and are not and who fucked Joca Pečečnik and so on, you seriously ask yourself what critical infrastructure is and how you need to protect her. After all, someone can do it, I hope it doesn't happen, a hacker attack on Luka Koper, and we'll have the situation that Americans are currently having, when a hacker attack is being carried out on a company that manages one of the key oil pipelines, which, according to domestically, is from Texas to New York, and all of this is in the middle of an oil derivative liphre. I'm going to say it may seem heretical to you, but actually this tape of 2TKK is, let's put it mildly, I hope to say, crazy. If we're seriously looking at this stuff, it's not how it's built. The developmental irresponsible is also the conversation about the second track and Luke Koper in the way it is done. We should, of course, talk about the Slovenian rail network as critical infrastructure, where there are bottlenecks, what needs to be improved, where there is also a new link to be built and how to finance it. I've said many times that we should start talking about how much and what kind of Luke Koper is. I'd rather see a leap from the amount of cargo to the consideration of quality cargo. Even if we talk about the EU, green and so on, even if the amount of cargo on the Slovenian motorway cross is relatively reduced, it can be kept the same to an absolute extent or will actually increase. Some of this logic, you know, let's think of the country as an economic society. The logic of the state is slightly different from that of a medium-sized enterprise. But here more out comes some ideology of the current government and coalition – the state is now my business and I am dealing now. But you know, that's kind of the way this thought goes. And based on that logic, let's look for strategic partners. Yes, according to this logic put forward by the SDS Member, Slovenia should be involved in the critical infrastructure of Croatia, Austria, Italy, also Switzerland, also France and at least the Bavarian part of Germany. And it's probably easier for me to become president of the SDS than if that were to happen, but you know. And it's easier to turn Drava around there in Maribor to run back to Koroška. Simply, a living God, who thinks a little seriously of himself as a country and as a society and as a critical infrastructure, is not going to and will not actually go through these Spains. Unless we want to become one -- I read a book about Central America -- I don't know, Honduras within the EU will play the role of the United States in our domestic and economic policies. To translate this story now, to be understandable to everyone, this is about as if today we were going to build a byte or a cottage, you would go to the bank, there someone would offer a loan in Switzerland in the way they offered it fifteen years ago. And you'll say, yeah, great, okay, I'll take it. This is roughly the logic of how this government wants to open the financial structure of the second track. On the other hand, it is clear whether it does not matter or is not capable of programming financially the so-called European pennies. Whole le-tech. Or we listen, yes, in fact, we do not know under what conditions they will actually be – something that I can even name some EU development bonds. And then I ask myself, wait, baptized mother, who is sitting on those saints of the EU – Miha Kordish, me or Janez Janša? Yes, and perhaps within fourteen months, we would have weighed this down if it were an interest, or we could have obtained some of this information. With Love I agree that already we will find it difficult to catch some hands in this second track saga and then open up some financial structure and open it in this way with Luka Koper I somehow connected there since 1994, when I was there for the first time working that Koper 2020, now we are Koper 2021, and some advantage of Luke Koper against competing North Adriatic ports was that it was organizationally so made that it has less noise within the business itself, and now you want to actually make additional noise. You know, a number of actors inherently mean more noise of a system, they found at MT that, even there somewhere in 1993, 1994, and went to some infrastructure, to some Spanish god who doesn't know what a living god is. These Spanish countries between neighbouring countries are usually only possible if you have some more difficult natural obstacles and then some tunnels are drilled domestically; or under a channel, or between Switzerland and Italy, or our Karavanka or something like that. Would you really like to ask yourself what kind of patriotism the right-hand man is talking about? And at this point, I'm going to kind of stop. What do we need? We need serious supervision of this investment so that again someone will not work out through the annexes in their private pockets, and at the opening of the so-called second track in a desire to be a two-track railway, so that I too can come in due course to the applicant with a train from Maribor to Koper for coffee, and I suggest you invite Zro Urbani, a very loving Hungarian contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Rosec. And after him she will discuss Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today we are talking about amending the law of April 2017. This law, in its present form, mentioned that it is also possible to enter other outlying countries. If you look at the possibility, why wasn't this article disturbing? A simple reason to look at how much more investment was estimated — 1.8 billion! Maybe there was some interest in some partner coming in, some country. I don't know. Mrs Bratušek mentioned earlier why we did not invite China. Has anything been done in this direction? The amendment of the law could simply be proposed until March 2020, until the adoption of this government, and this has not been done. And one also wonders why it was not before, this desire for this matter. But now they've made a pianist event, because we know there's something going on there, and there's an opening, and there's other ministers opening up. This is for someone like the president of the government and the minister, a little painful when you look at what others are opening. Well, I hope it's just this obvious that there's nothing else in the back. If there is a problem of the hinter countries, only Hungary is mentioned. This was just an initiative, but the initiative and the treaty was a big difference. We have repeatedly mentioned that we have fallen asleep; we have fallen very much asleep on the railway infrastructure. We had a Commissioner in the European Commission in charge of transport, but we did little or took advantage of more than nothing. The Croats are more successful than we are, and we're still digging. Even if we look at how long we've been putting these infrastructure projects into space. And we're a mess; if anyone knows who's making it difficult, it's us. We have so many officials at some institutes that aren't here to do anything, they're blocking something. Sometimes you wonder if it would not be better if these officials were just given monthly income at home; at least they would not be burdened by the development of the country. We know that this investment in the second track, it will be recovered through use, through the use of the second track, as well as the roads. And now we are talking about some kilometers, a few kilometers, but the key question is when will we solve the problem of railway links within Slovenia, so that you can move from Maribor to Ljubljana in 50 minutes. That should be our goal. That's the goal! And now we're looking for something here, and we're inventing some warm water for this Luke Koper and another track. Well, if there are people who are responsible there, they'll take care of it. As the legislative branch of power, however, we must make it possible and adopt laws or help them to make certain things happen as soon as possible. However, it is not that we have legislation that blocks, but that it does not allow development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the floor and will be discussed by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the December regular session, I asked Minister Jernej Vrtovac directly what was the result of Hungary's entry into the property of Luka Koper. And let me read to you, he said: “The fact that you mentioned Hungary to enter the ownership of Luke Koper is fake news. It does not hold." And he told me a couple of times that it's fake news and that Hungarians don't have anything to do here. The financial structure is closed, the money is secured, European funds are provided and now, what Hungary needs to give them is completely uneconomically, irresponsible, is a threat to public finances and also to Slovenia's interests. I understand that the ruling SDS party with Hungary, especially with Viktor Orbán, has outstanding accounts, but that all citizens have to pay for their election results or for the media they finance is indeed unacceptable. And then we hear here about some kind of business latitude. It's not about business breadth, I'd rather talk about corruption, customerism and, of course, the sliding of some non-liberal practice. Hungarians do not have access to the sea, they do not have their port and I do not know why Slovenia is the one who would just give them 30,000 square metres in the port and so on. Neither Croatia nor Italy nor any coastal country leaves its strategic infrastructure to other countries, but at least Hungary. The lines are updated and constructed on the basis of their own resources, based on European funds. Moreover, Croatia, for example, which you gave as a comparison, will receive as much as 85% of European funding for its routes. The Slovenian government has provided only 25% of European funds for the second track. I want to know why. It is also a fact which I have highlighted in my question to Minister Vrtovac about the fact that we have sold freight transport, which is very profitable. However, we need to know and be aware that the one who controls the levers of logistics controls the entire economy of one country and therefore is unacceptable to play with the interests of the State and its core pillars, as recorded in the Confederation of Trade Unions of 90 Slovenia. The initiative to conclude an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary in cooperation with the construction and management of the second route of the Divača– Koper route was considered and adopted by the competent committee of the National Assembly under the designation of secrecy. This government very much likes to deal with matters under the name of secrecy, to make a deal under the table, and thus to allow foreigners to manage our infrastructure assets. The argument that I am hearing from the rulings, and especially from right representatives – let us leave it entirely different in the previous government, and Minister Vrtovec himself voted in favour of the interpretation of Gasperšič for the privatisation of the second track, but now he is implementing the law without the slightest change. He is now putting forward the argument that we will ensure a sufficiently large trans-shipment of goods through Hungary's capital participation, and this is also highlighted by Members. Yeah, well, we got to be open about this! This is not true at all, because the demand for services of Luke Koper is by no means dependent on whether the Hungarian owner will be half of the second track, but on whether or not it will be built and whether the transport will be closer, more favourable than, say, Hamburg. Of course, the Hungarian government can influence the SDS because it finances its client propaganda apparatus, but it cannot affect the fact that shipowners and carriers will use a better port in Cyprus, nor can it affect Slovenia, nor the Austrian, German, Czech or Slovak companies. And we're also going to put one country on the table and give it a head start. The port of Koper must maintain neutrality and our biggest business partner is by no means Hungary, but Austria. This makes it absolutely unacceptable for us to listen to arguments about how we have no idea about the economy and business flows, because here we are quoting people who are involved in transporting; here you have the director of operator Adria Komi, who says that the cargo will go along the fastest, most convenient, safest routes. The cargo route determines the interest of private capital, not Hungarian policy. I mean, we are the hostages of Hungarian and Hungarian politics and our Janez Janša, current Prime Minister of the Government, very nice to read with Orbán, but what is most terrible is that our foreign policy does not respond at all to the drawing of the map of the great Hungary. This is, I'm sorry, so shameful and unconscionable, so volatile that I think it's terrible and devastating for Slovenia! The President of the Port Forwarders Section also says that it is reasonable to maintain good relations with neighbouring countries and the status of neutrality, and it is said that the capital entry of Hungary into the ownership structure of Luke Koper is actually more likely to reject the frozen countries than it is to cause us to move more. So your arguments are absolutely nothing, and I'll say, even worse, it goes here when they smell money, some, I see that the debate becomes very wild, very emotional. In short, if we went without the Hungarians, we'd save 250 million of our tax money. And then the SDS manipulator speaks, yes, why don't we split these 250 million among the nurses and so on. Who voted against raising the salaries of nurses in the PKP8? You! And you appreciate them so much, and they're full of mouths. Then we heard attacks, but we don't know what, socialists, I don't know what just to compare I'm going to tell you that in terrible socialism in six months they built 240 kilometers of tracks with song on their lips and with society, while in Slovenia they built 27 kilometers 5 years, 3 billion. [[…]] Compare here and be honest: money is about power and power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj has the word, and he will discuss it with Franci Kep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for the words, the esteemed assembly! I'll try to get back to the present. The construction of the second track has a long and thorny path, many words, even more promises, and finally the planting of the first shovel, which the Minister of New Slovenia sealed. As a Primor, I am aware that the second track is necessary and absolutely necessary. The forecast for 2030 in Luka Koper is expected to be 35 million tonnes, which means that without the project the second track will increase freight traffic on the coastal highway and its surroundings, including around Ilirska Bistrica, by a 2-fold. I support the second track project and thus the greener Slovenia. We give the Slovenian economy room for development and prosperity, which will also increase the welfare of citizens and citizens. I have carefully read the proposal of the Left, which in its presentation focuses mainly on the emotions of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is very nice to build on national interest, and we all know where it has led us in the past. This is the way it works when one side of the policy wants to ban discussions on possible cooperation from the very beginning; not about concluding any agreement, but just possible discussions with the other countries; not explicitly with one, but with any other side of the country. Where did we come to have a party put in parliament a law that prevents conversations with those who drive through our port of Koper? The world's wrong if you ask me. Parallels with Slovenian policy on exclusion and not integration, which are necessary and necessary at these difficult times, are merely coincidences. Slovenia has been completely asleep in infrastructure over the last ten years. I think there's this sermon that we can all agree with in the hall. At least 10 years or more shall be taken to obtain enough to build. At home we want to increase the space for processing the vineyard area and wait more than five years, rather on the basis of the highway. On the other hand, Italy and Croatia are speeding up the rail network. The Austrians and Italians connect Trieste around us, while the Croats connect Rijeka with Hungary. Here, I might also point out China and their investment in infrastructure. The Chinese connect the port of Piraeus to Hungary with the two-tier railway, and if I am not mistaken, they are already in Serbia. So much for a call. On the other hand, we have refugees, some call the Chinese to Slovenia, and they forget to say that other countries, especially Croatia, have a little less taste for their operation, but forget to tell us about the labour law, which may be a little different from ours. After all, what are we doing? We're closing down, we're lonely, we'll end up alone, and our national interest will burn nicely. As I mentioned earlier, I support the second track. The project will be funded by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, including from Illyrian Bistrica, we all want the development of Luka Koper, including us in Illyrian Bistrica. The development of all Slovenia, not only Ilirska Bistrica, is also important with the video project of Postojna – Jelšane. This is where we expect reciprocity. But let's get back to funding the project. The Secretary of State has kindly told us that the project is not yet closed financially, that not all signed contracts are not signed, some of us want to be convinced that everything is fine abroad. I don't agree, we've seen some of them abroad, the impression they've left. I personally trust Minister Vrtovac and his team, which has already proven itself several times; not once, but repeatedly. On the other hand, we have a proposaler, the president of a political group, who convinces us that something is wrong. One such example, a fine example occurred just this week, when a meeting was convened at your address of some political groups in the National Assembly regarding an electronic vignette. Your insinuation was also rejected by the state commission this week. That's what I'd say for the end. Some of you mentioned the European funds acquired by the neighbouring Croatia of 85% and our project of only 25% on the second track. If memory doesn't fool me, this gain is 25%, this number has been provided in the previous government. So you're holding back the previous government, the former Minister of Infrastructure. I hope and hope that this percentage will be further increased by the current minister with his team, so that this share of the funds will be increased and that this project will be finally built. I am pleased that Minister Jernej Vrtovec planted the first shovel, but above all I am pleased that he has promised not to irritate the project. I hope he keeps that promise. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is given by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. With regard to European funds, the basic structure of 25% of European funds has been from the time of the Cerara government, not just the previous government. What we're telling you is that you're leaving $5 billion in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. That's what we were talking about. But Croatia will draw from the NNO this 85% for investing in infrastructure, because it is part of the green policy, part of the dissolving – no percentage of the current Slovenian government. There were no European mechanisms at the time, no Recovery and Resistance Plan. This is a new matter that has now arisen among the cobblers, and you have not taken advantage of it. That was the obvious, that could have been, and you didn't. That 5 billion simply leaves in Brussels because it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Aleš Mihelič, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Just a comment on European funds. There were 109 million in Cerara's government, 80 now in ours. In addition, for the third set, i.e. signalling devices, for all technical equipment estimated at about 150 to 200 million, we anticipate in the next cohesion policy that this percentage will be raised accordingly. As for the Recovery and Resistance Fund, we are essentially investing the largest investment share in railways. If I'm right in my memory, about 450 to 500 million euros. It is true, however, that Slovenia has a loose railway network and we are currently funding one foot on the mountain track worth 60 million from this work. It will also be available in other sections of Ljubljana – Divača, as well as elsewhere in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. He's got the word Franci Kepa, and he's got the word Primož Siter behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today's topic or meeting was called for by Hungary's entry into company 2TKK and these are envisaged if it were possible to invest this 200 million in this company. These options have not yet been worked out, all options are still open, we can do all by ourselves with favourable loans. It is true, however, that in this year and the previous year, Slovenia has made a huge contribution to the epidemic and to the preservation of jobs, and this contribution from the behind countries would come very well because it has been heavily indebted to it this year and the previous year. It could not only be Hungary, I think it could be another country; the Czech Republic, as already mentioned, Slovakia, maybe Austria and also Germany. It is true, however, that 2019 was also in the investment programme – it was under the previous government and under Minister Bratušek – that the investment programme also states that the possibilities are also to include other countries frozen in society. With this, Slovenia and Luka Koper would become more secure. Luke Koper would've gotten safer partners by having a stake in society. It is true, however, that it will probably retain Slovenia in order to retain the majority share and thus the assets of our state ownership. But it is true that the investment itself, after all, we are talking about 200, 100, 200, 300 million. [[…]] The investment in the previous government was estimated at even a billion 800, under Bratuškov to a billion 400, under this government already fell to under a billion and is an estimate of 220 million for the main investment programme and at the latest, as the invitation was made, the offer of works was also below the price, the selection of the Collector. However, I do not know how, no comments are made, no meetings are convened, but what bothers me is that one large company works on the whole track itself. Maybe because the company is closer to the left option. It'd probably be a big hall to be closer to the right-hand option, wouldn't it? Even very close to the Alenka Bratušek Party, as well as the other left option, there is nothing to talk about. Personally, it bothers me that one company does such a great deal. Otherwise, I am glad that even a much lower price has been chosen, and the company will have to make a great deal of effort to implement this price, or perhaps hope for a replacement of the government, as well as ordered extended anexas, monthly, and thus additional money. We can also give an example for Croatia, here, even a sailboat, made a Dalmatian with an investment from America. There were no problems, though perhaps now indeed buying the shares back into state ownership, but, they have even made the highway and very quality, with money from abroad, with concession, on a certain deadline, concession. After the expiry of this concession, it will be owned by the country itself. And they did it without a doubt, and we're doing this kind of thing with us because of some kind of insert. Well, today it is a market economy, not only will it be owned by all countries, because we have both more than half of companies in foreign ownership or in part foreign ownership, so that this is a matter of strategic importance, I agree, and Luka Koper railway, but it is a little better than another company, but it is intertwined. [[…]] I am pleased that construction has finally begun, that in a few years this will be done, this is very crucial for Slovenia. We've waited too long for this investment. I am happy that within a few years it will be completed, and I will not be disturbed by any contribution from other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The text is by Primož Siter and will be discussed by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Hello! After half an hour of discussion, I take a few seconds and explain, perhaps the simplest or some covert explanation, what is actually going on today, what is the problem and what solution we are offering. Thus, Slovenia is building this second track of Divaca– Koper, which is crucial, so infrastructureally – we have already heard why – and what its economic, infrastructure and other value are in the light of the links between Luka Koper and Europe. On the other hand, the construction of rail infrastructure is also important from a climate perspective, which is always and everywhere in Levica. However, the problem arises because, last November, Janševa's government concluded one agreement or took the initiative to conclude an agreement between Slovenia and Hungary, with which almost half of the ownership stake in 2TKK will therefore be sold to Hungary in the company that manages the project. Which, of course, is very bad; it's bad at two levels. First of all, this financial part, which we have heard is that, in fact, there is no need for it, for some partnership and investment from neighbouring Hungary, Slovenia has these funds provided from the budget treasury, without some mixing with the rebalans, these funds are provided. The lending climate, if Slovenia occurs alone in this game, is significantly more favourable than if it does so in partnership with Hungarian capital. So, we can build this track ourselves, there are no financial obstacles. And secondly, what might be even more in the sky is loud and dangerous, reading this project, this thing as a political project, which is unequivocal. Ideally, the government's goal is quite clear, to deepen our readmission with a multi-city agenda, to say the construction of a new Europe, not only ideally or culturally, which we have witnessed so far, but also concretely tangiblely, infrastructurally. And in the way that the Prime Minister kicks us into the Visegrajska Group, with degradation and democracy, with general freedoms, human rights and so on, it is particularly painful to see how the economy, infrastructure and so on is breaking into this political culture. While the government here is preaching about business opportunities that arise from such cooperations and projects, this in fact means that, despite their preaching of national interest, the nation, the nation, the country and so on, in fact, they are simply putting the country in some position of loss of sovereignty. Financially, economically, politically and in a way moral. That is why we have presented this law in Levika to the National Assembly because it eliminates the possibility of foreign countries participating in the ownership structure of 2TKK or, in particular, Hungary, because it pays to do this purely pragmatically, it pays to do this without their intervention, thus reducing the cost of financing. At the same time, I conclude, the need for the related transactions required by the Republic of Hungary and which are contrary to other companies, state-owned enterprises owned by the Republic of Slovenia, such as Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and so on, can be eliminated because you can be sure that if, once owned in this game, Hungary will not, once the matter is functioning, sit back, sit back, enjoy the day, but will want to draw even more from here, and will spread its, I say, the economic occupation of the Republic of Slovenia, as today expands its cultural and political occupation also on this part of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word, and he will get the word "Boštjan Koražija" behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members! We are at a time when we no longer have time; we are at a time that requires not only an update but also an upgrade and a new construction of the railway line. Coronacrisis itself will have certain global economic consequences, so it is an important decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to invest intensively in the modernisation and development of infrastructure and the modernisation and construction of the rail network, which will also show up in the economy: the multiplier effects, the new jobs – I hope they will also be better paid. This infrastructure project is of utmost importance for Slovenia, so it needs to be built as quickly as possible, because otherwise the construction of its railway lines will exceed the neighbouring countries.................................................................................................................... Other investors from the Member States of the European Union are therefore welcome. The second track follows the modern European financing of large infrastructure projects. Such a financing model is a constant practice in the European Union, and in Slovenia this is also used for the first time in the second track project. First of all, it will burden taxpayers to the very least and at the same time allow for the simultaneous financing of other important projects from the state budget. However, because I fear that we will build the lines on our hands, as Ambassador Violet said, I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is given by Boštjan Koražija, followed by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u104	Yes, look, Madam President, thank you very much for your word. And I'm just going to relate to the gentleman who last discussed it. Look, it's luck and happiness that we've had so many good hands and bright minds in the past that we've created this future that we have now. Without them, we wouldn't be sitting here in the National Assembly right now. So making fun of it is really disgusting, no. That's the first thing. The other thing is that when we talk about the second track and, of course, our law, I actually think that this law or the CAP, which is also used on the right hand side, is a healthy farmer's mind, in this case, and even if they don't want everything Slovenian, it would actually be right to really support this law, because, in fact, if we want to be independent, independent and also competitive in this part of Europe or in the EU as a whole, we need to make sure that all the infrastructure and the biggest points in the country that also bring us the greatest added value or put us on the map in the sense that we can decide how, what and why. In this case, when we are talking about the second track, when we are also talking about Luka Koper, we should never, in fact, ever, ever let this go from Slovenian hands on a national level. And then, unfortunately, we've been witnessing for the last 30 years that all of this has been sold, I'm going to say Slovenian gold, not just silver, but some diamond with it, and in this case, it would come to not only sell it, but actually just donate the diamond to someone, and in this case, Hungary. The fact is, what everyone has discussed before has been the subject. Lord Orban is a fox; and he is a great fox. He didn't come here to come chat with us when we were talking about the second track and Luke Copper. He came to the possibility that he would slowly, perhaps not immediately, but once in the future take control of Slovenian infrastructure, and in particular he is interested in Luka Koper. Which is another matter, which has also been mentioned many times, and earlier, my colleague Vatovec mentioned that Hungary is not the one that produces the most plant in Luka Koper, but Austria and Germany, and I think that even Slovakia was ahead of Hungary in certain years. I think so. But also because you're talking about this secret arrangement just that was adopted, which you initially wanted to cover up or even somehow cover up that it doesn't exist, but it turned out to be true. So, the deal is, the agreements are going on and what's most worrying is that the talks are already very far away. And I am once again warning, not to have against anyone in terms of cooperation with the other neighbouring countries, because we have to work with the other neighbouring countries. But when it comes to our interests, or when it comes to our survival, we must also look at how we will survive, how we will live, how we will be self - sufficient, or how we will know how to take care of ourselves. Because in this coronary crisis, it is always clearer or more crystallized that it will be necessary, if possible, to be self - sufficient or self - sustaining. And in such a case, I think we need to keep an eye on all of our really diamonds, so that we don't just give them to someone, but in return, we get them, I don't know what, I don't know, the expansion of Hungary or whatever. Nothing against Hungary again; but, as it is said, Mr Orbán did not come to negotiate or come to stand up for him to be here with us in the sense of a future and that we will have the main word, but in fact he wants to be the one who has the main word or who wants to have the main word. From this point of view, I do not understand our Prime Minister's point of view, given that even on Twitter he repeatedly points out how he is that alpha male, or how he is that alpha statesman or also the leader in this part of Europe, he would expect that after this case, when it comes to the second track, when it comes to Luca Koper, he will clearly and loudly resist him: There is no way. I'd expect it! Because then I really don't know what else is coming. Because we also listen here a lot of times, even at the State Dawn, on the other hand, let's say, now I'm going to say such a banal case, for example, to the recent, media-related situation, and we're against it, and in fact, you're the one who's selling Slovenia and talking about patriotism, and in fact you're not even doing that I'm going to say it better. [[…]] This is how I want more attention from the President of the Government in this direction, and if he is serious about taking Slovenia and the Slovenians seriously, let him do so, but not just tweet and talk about it. Because then something rigid, and then things will be signed and arranged differently. So if he wants to be a statesman, if he wants to be that alpha president, as he likes to represent himself, then let him prove it, and let him finally begin to stand up for the interests of Slovenia and not for the interests of everyone around us. Again, as we say, I want very good neighbourly relations, because we need them and we need to raise them and protect them, but when we talk about our main points of interest, it is only right that we take care of them and that they remain ours. As it is said, I will return to the beginning again, to the Member of the SDS: see, so many things that our predecessors, these generations have put before us through or even put so much effort into all that we have, that what we are throwing literally through the window, is actually not only distasteful, but actually irresponsible. And I ask that we also begin to speak in the National Assembly in terms of knowing and appreciating what our predecessors have left behind and in fact gave and given; not only is this ours, but they have given us a lease to take care of it, and that we continue to have good governance, so I will say, in this case, as far as the second track and Luke Koper are concerned. Of course, I support the law and it would be right for others to speak not only about Slovenia but also to support Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The replica of Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I was misunderstood, Mr. Korazia. I didn't make fun of the workers. I come from the economy myself. I was talking about the time of construction of the railway line, which needs to be done as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would still ask that you be respectful of your fellow Members of the debate. Mr Koražija speaks of a healthy farm of the other side's wisdom, and you miss it too. More times. Robert Polnar has the word, and Mojca Škrnjar will discuss it. Mr Koražija, before that, is a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u108	It is procedurally intended for you, Mr Vice-President, who is leading this meeting today. Since I've been on the farm for 25 years now, I think I've got some pretty healthy farmers on my mind, and I think there's some healthy farmers on this. I wouldn't make fun of you like you made fun of farmers today. I'm proud to be from the farm, and I'm also a soul farmer if you want. I was a farmer. So you don't make fun of farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I was talking about being respectful, so don't ask for anything else, or you're an eccentric violator yourself. Robert Polnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Logistics and transport are becoming the central business area with rapid growth in a modern globalisation story. Modern logistics companies offer not only transport and storage but quality management of the entire purchasing chain, which is increasingly important for market management and cost management. Slovenia is at the crossroads of the 5th and 10th European Transport Corridor, an ideal place for logistics transport operations, but we have not understood these competitive advantages so far. Modern roads came to us quite late, railway connections were dangerously narrow throats and logistics centres within Slovenia remained more or less only on maps. Wasted opportunities are our inner developmental weakness. The key is obsolete railway infrastructure, which is why railway modernisation and the development of logistics are becoming key development tasks for Slovenia, and here I am thinking not only about the part of the rail network we are talking about today, but in general, it is necessary to know that the modernisation of railways represents a significantly larger construction, business and logistics supply in the future, such as the construction of a highway programme in the past. The European Union is complex in redesigning and modernising its transport and logistics corridors, where Slovenia can take its exceptional strategic position to the forefront. This is a public infrastructure and it is usually a matter of the state's financing of railways and roads in particular, and this is another matter. However, it is still true that the aggregate demand side is the one that promotes the engagement of production factors that promote increased production or economic growth. Gross domestic product is not given in itself, but it depends on demand factors and public investment have always been one of the key elements of anti-recession policy. But we probably all agree that we are in a deep recession right now. Ensure continued demand for services in the Western countries and increase economic and strategic interest in the use of the services of Luka Koper, these are the main objectives of the idea of cooperation with one of the Western countries. The problem raised in this regard is the business share of a potential partner in the core capital of a project company which is legally organised as a limited liability company; this business share, from which the amount and type of return on capital invested are then developed. It is assumed that a company with a 45-year concession will be effective on its own. The efficiency of any event is the basis of the company's economy; an undertaking that operates effectively, which, by means of certain inputs, generates several exhibits, meets the necessary condition for it to succeed. However, the problem for each company is that efficiency must be ensured in all its processes and at all levels of business. Any possible investor, however, does not depend on us to speak only of one particular country, so it will define and evaluate its contribution in at least three aspects: ownership, economic and financial. In fact, the ownership aspect is nothing more than an assessment of whether the owner’s assets are increasing or not, and this is a specific situation, as I have already mentioned, for a concession period of less than half a century. The economic aspect provides information on the eligibility of the existence of such an undertaking, with each investor pursuing the objective that its benefits are greater than the inputs. In fact, the financial aspect provides information on whether an entity is able to pay, what are the risks of insolvency and whether an undertaking improves its creditworthiness through business. This is nothing new, and this is something completely normal and normal from the point of view of each investor. However, the fact is that every investor works in conditions of uncertainty, unpredictability. And if we look at the operation of an existing company and compare it with an existing investment laboratory, then we can see that the unpredictability to a certain extent is already being demonstrated in the area of toll premiums and in the area of financing of fixed capital from those sources called loaned foreign savings. In doing so, it is necessary to know that the rear country is not just one country. There are more countries behind us. Except that no one, except that potentially one, has so far shown any interest in cooperation. In my humble opinion, it is also nothing strange and nothing unusual. The problem of Slovenia is not this or those ministerial presidents, it is not a political omen, but the problem of Slovenia is the inability to manage the country, with its political and economic system, with reasonable and timely decisions. In Slovenia it is difficult to start anything, but relatively it is possible to stop any initiative or any company. Plans and changes are forecasting and quietly stalling, changing, or withdrawing. The Slovenian company opposes modernisation and the Slovenian state is more an improvisation state than an investment country. However, there is no political or economic or social responsibility for all blocked decisions. Although it is mostly incompetence, indifference, negligence and ignorance, it seems to be the biggest problem because they always have the advantage of private sin over public benefits. In Slovenia, the governance of the country and the management of state affairs have become a subdiscipline of hypnosis. It is necessary to buy time, spread false smiles and say that our biggest problem is pessimism. This type of Slovenia is not managed. Even those who gain power with the best intentions, because opponents are even worse, quickly lose their will and leave to the commodity of business, whose main feature is to present problems to the future and to invent challenges that can be solved by any fool or any chance. However, dislikability with change and urgent reforms is not a problem of abstract fear or uncertainty. There are organised stakeholders who oppose any threat to their own position. And I'm not talking about the psychological state of individuals, but about political maneuvering, creating a habit of constant opposition, creating a feeling that progress is a result of miracles, and problems are the result of no one's bad intentions. Nothing is ever good for us if such a posture can be used to justify our own wrongdoing, not to try and not to run. It's much easier to complain than to really work. But when the feelings of injustice and murmuring, belief in miracles, and not belief in their own power are covered, then a situation of numbness, confusion, not knowing what the goal is, nor what the task is. Possibilities are being wasted and opportunities are being wasted. This, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with ideology, nor does it have anything to do with political omens, but it has to do with incompetence and a line of evading before taking difficult and unpopular decisions. There'll be nothing to complain about, and there'll be no complaints. Today, a working country, a strong policy and a strong government are appreciated. We don't have that. Wasted opportunities are, as we say, our inner developmental weakness. This is the fate of the eternal delays and the frightened bearers of their own competitive advantages. It is clear from the proposed text that the applicants calculate that a potential investor would be able to take advantage of the fact that it comes into the environment of frightened operators of comparative advantages and that this is an investment opportunity and a business advantage for him. Personally, I do not agree with this view. I think that with what I've described a little bit earlier, and I'm sure I didn't overdo it, we're not going to get any serious investors, because who would be stupid enough to invest their own money in such an environment. So here is the key point where I do not agree with the applicants, so I say that the proposed law, as conceived and formulated, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrnjar has the word, and Mojca Žnidarič will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u112	Thank you very much. What do we want and need citizens and citizens? I think it's a comfortable and healthy environment that offers us the conditions for quality privacy and work. Infrastructure is an important part of this. These are railways, state and local roads. Compared with foreign railways, we are severely lagging behind. We're embarrassingly lagging behind! If you ever drove a so-called TGV train on the Brussels-Paris route, you drove a good two hours, you sat comfortably, you had the Internet on the road all the time and two hours – you were in Paris. The TGV train reaches 350 km of speed per hour, of course it does not drive all the time at such a speed, because it is only possible on a very non-problem field and Slovenia, of course, is not a place where it could develop for such a long time. However, it is certainly possible to achieve greater speed and much greater comfort in driving. If you ever drove to London, I don't know, it's a very fast relationship. This way Slovenia can actually want something like this only in the far future, but somewhere has to be started. Trains provide cleaner air and also enable labour mobility. People can live, say, in Prekmurje and work in Ljubljana and we can take the train daily to work. But not on a train like this, because otherwise we'd need a day's work. Really, really embarrassing, shamefully developed infrastructure is in our possession. What we fear – untransparent spending, countless annexes. Just remember the construction of highways, how many annexes were needed, the Šentwisk tunnel, which is not yet connected directly to the Tacen Road. Remember the cartel deal on Zemon, where the leading socialist constructionists divided the areas and then uncompetitively determined the high prices we all paid and today we are still paying this price. We pay to be ashamed of our infrastructure rail environment. I don't know, I don't think we need to be afraid of foreign investors. What are they gonna do? They're gonna pull a piece of the track and take it home? They're gonna pull out thresholds, electric wires? I think it's a senseless fear. But I wonder what you're afraid of proposing and who you're really talking about. I've heard of diamonds before. I'm afraid this speech goes on behalf and on behalf of those who, with new and new Annexes, would push in their own pockets the so-called diamonds. However, the presence of foreign investors is a wedding for spending money transparently, not with a dozen annexes. Those who invest money in this project will invest it in order to make money spent efficiently and be well invested, not in order to be new and new Annexes and new works; and this is unnecessary work. Private capital has been a driver of development and foreign investors are welcome. Consider the case of Novartis: the good wages that Slovenians and Slovenians earn are much better than they were in Lek. What's wrong with that? I'm asking you what's wrong with that. Good wages that are paid by both the highest-educated and those who occupy jobs that require less education. They can only be satisfied. A different attitude is backward, aimed at the poverty of Venezuela and Cuba, and this is where the last dictator recently resigned, as socialism is a completely unsuccessful economic model that impoverishes all of us. The Republic of Slovenia will maintain a large share of the investment that will enable control, while at the same time monitoring the efficiency of the business. I think it's a successful model. Like, in Parliament, the coalition and the opposition, the coalition is the one that runs the case, and the opposition controls it. And I think there's private capital that belongs to a foreign investor right here in this role. Efficiency, complexity, that's the principle. The second track, I hope, is only the beginning of the modernisation of infrastructure in Slovenia. The referendum was also about the second track. Why was he? Fear of the lack of transparency of spending money! And I think that now the investment is transparent enough to make sure that the cheapest investor is also chosen, who cannot promise to then be the contractor who cannot promise himself and cannot promise such a government that it will invent and invent new and new annexes. He's gonna have to build what he promised for this money. And I hope that our country will have enough railway infrastructure to be able to use these trains both for freight transport and for people, for labour mobility. By doing so, we will preserve nature and will not even have to spend all our resources in the field of health, for health is the one that suffers if we do not have clean air. The number of cars we have in this country, but we have them because simply infrastructure is not enough, certainly does not help clean air. The important thing is to think about development, work, and health. The fact that the co-investor, that the investment is well thought out, is a marriage that the money that is intended to do so will also be spent effectively, fairly and transparently and that this is only the beginning of the great development of Slovenian infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word, for her he will get the word Victory Jelinčič Noble. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting I'm here for! Today we have heard, and most of us also know that discussions about the second track have been or have been going on for more than 25 years. We also heard, the former Minister of Infrastructure said that there are already 43 metres of files on this project. I want to know how much longer the policy will be tossing it under its feet. So, finally, recently, the project or the second track finally started to be built, thanks to SMC, I have to say. You know that the key priority project of the Government of Mira Cerar was this second track, and that essentially moved from the dead point. It is true that Slovenia is probably able to build this second track on its own, I am not saying that this is not the case, so we recently adopted the Guarantee Act – we in the SMC then with a heavy heart, our opinion is different from the beginning – so we supported the inclusion of the icy states in it, but also if someone is able to buy something, some individual, it does not mean that it will then be economically and profitable. Why do we want some other countries behind us to join in co-financing this track? So they're going to use it because, as the Secretary of State said or we all know, growth in Luka Koper is not self-evident. Luka Koper has two strong competitors close to him; this is a port in Trieste and in the River, and we can also read articles, because Hungarians have already talked to Trieste and others, it is not said that they will now choose us. But yes, one will outrun us on the left, the other on the right, and it will no longer be with us or Slovenia, the main corridor that we want, and this law, if adopted today, will not support it, and I will therefore not support it in the SMC – I would deny Slovenia, as I have already said in my position, for potentially long-term strategic cooperation and would prevent a more favourable distribution of the financial risks associated with such a complex infrastructure investment. Today, it has also been said by the Secretary of State and others that the cooperation of the Länder is only envisaged as an option, and there will be a real need for strong negotiations, and if this happens, this Interstate Agreement will ratify the National Assembly. So we ratify it, we accept it from Members, so I don't know why we would ban something that we don't really know if it's going to happen. In the SMC, we are convinced from the very beginning of our cooperation in the preparation of this project, as I said, that the integration of the hinter countries is good and welcome in this scheme, both financially and strategically. The European Commission has also given one condition or recommendation to the European Commission that such demanding infrastructure projects should be financed from different sources of both capital investments, loans and also European grants. This recommendation was precisely justified by the Commission’s reasoning that such a combination of financial resources contributes to dispersing the financial risks of individual participants in the project. As I said before, so our former Prime Minister, Mr Miro Cerar, worked very actively on this project with his team, which is why today I am so much more surprised, I was not a member of the previous term, but I am surprised at the opinion of those who today spoke completely contrary to the views of our former Members, who, then members of the field, before the referendum and otherwise encouraged us, explained why this is necessary – that is, the second track or entry of the former countries – and today they have completely changed their minds. Therefore, with the partners from the hinterland, we could secure greater demand for the use of our infrastructure and consolidate Slovenia as part of an important European logistics corridor. This was all the time, then and now, one of the important goals; that is, with the possible participation of large back markets. This is not only Hungary, but also the Minister has been in the Czech Republic and is also talking elsewhere, so the participation of these large back markets would significantly increase the amount of transhipment which is intended for and with Luka Koper, of course, the competitiveness of the port itself. Now, if I respond a little bit to what's been said today. So we are talking, yes, about the possibility of the hinter countries, not only did I already say Hungary and that the National Assembly will ratify it, it must ratify this interstate agreement if it comes to it. I'd like to warn you. It seems to me that former Minister Alenka Bratušek warned in her position that the Minister is not present on such an important matter today. Now, this law is opposition today, and I don't know why it should have been there, but it certainly wasn't there — I have a magnetogram here — when we had the first reading of the guarantee law on the second track and the third development axis; and it was not included in the government law. I can see that Members are warning that it is not present in such an important marriage, so it seems a little strange, or that it is a stumbling block to each other, why some minister is not present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u115	Thank you very much. He will discuss Dušan Šiško and then Gregor Perič. If you want more, you have another 25 seconds. You won't. And last but not least, Bojan Podkoršek. Mr. Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u116	President, thank you for your word. I will first not want to speak earlier and reply to the replicas when we have been mentioned by certain Members, what the National Party is doing. Look, I've already said in my position that this is all going on too long and there are some new solutions again. Now I don't know if we really want all of us here together, that this second track falls into the water somewhere in Koper, in the port of Koper, to fall into the sea, all the projects and all. You know, it reminds me of that story about the highway that was towed, dragged, dragged, dragged; the municipal world, the country could not possibly have been able to get the route from Ivančna Gorica to the New City or to the Obrežje. So now I have a feeling again, and I don't get it wrong, my dear fellows, I have a feeling that someone would like to buy land again or have bought it in order to sell it dearly and that they will eventually make a lot of money. This was the case with the construction of the highway cross. Now I know people when they bought land, a guest, swamps in Dolenjska, and then they thought this route would go there. But it's all gone. This motorway was built for 15 years, and this second track has lasted more than 20 years. We've got a model somewhere, because I don't know anymore. Everyone took pictures with this model in Koper or Portorož. Everyone was happy. Look at the fragment, our National Assembly comes, our occupation, our mandate 2018 – yes, soon after one person has to fly away, who was there in the presence, took a picture. And she had to leave the National Assembly. And the big question is, did this real person fly away then? And then there's all kinds of fish on two legs that stop the projects, just like they stopped the Mokrice hydropower project, and then on the third development axis at Slovenj Gradz they're blocking, and even though I'm saying that every honor to this minister, I was very critical of his hearing on the infrastructure, and today I can tell him, he's young, untapped then, he's got certain associates pulling his moves, but he's the minister who hit the table, and something started moving. I have asked no more questions from the Member States as to what is left of the railway infrastructure. Look, like I said, Austro-Hungry could have done in four years. We've been here 20, 25 years dealing with one poor other track. And if they're offered, I don't see, I really don't see where we can stop, of course, with various contracts to agree on how you're going to build another track. Don't talk on average, yes, but now the Hungarians will come, but they will co-owners, and we'll have the devil in a bag they'll call home. This project needs to start working and moving forward. We need another track. We need this done as soon as possible. I don't know. I didn't hear it today. I was very careful if anyone said anything about why the second track didn't start 20 years ago. Where were the reasons? Why did it all go down? I have not heard from any Member the reasons why we are now dealing with this. True, in the previous composition, we started to work — but look at the fraction! The resistance wall of Glinščica, as I have already said, was designed but unacceptable for the rail track. And they're there, I think, because it wasn't right. In the construction industry, it's the best place to make an offer, and then the annexes come and start by explaining that we've reviewed the terrain, and that's what it was like then, but now that we're buried in it, we have a chance to see the actual situation and make it stronger. And then there's the Annexes, the Annexes, the Annexes. So, respectable fellows, let's move on with this second track, even though it's funny; it's funny that we're going to do phase one first, then stage two. What's even more funny is this is just like driving around a Ljubljana bypass 130 km an hour, and then all of a sudden instead of a bridge, you run into a macadam and you have to get pregnant. In the presentation, when we received the project, we pointed out that even railway infrastructure needs to be changed, that 160 trains can be driven anywhere, not there, to run into an obstacle and stop at 80. I will finish and I say, the second track needs to be completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Matthew Tashner Vatovec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President. This place should also be a place of persuasion. In principle, I agree with most of the things that Mr Šiško has said. But I just want to point out a few things so that I can take some of his concerns away. The Secretary of State himself said that, irrespective of this law or whether or not agreements with Hungary will be concluded or concluded with any other State, the second track will be built. That's no way to be afraid here. True, it took 20 years, but the project has been started, and the machines are already grinding hard, and sooner or later this second track will be built. I think you also referred to my debate, which I had quite at the beginning of today's session. I have expressed my belief that it is you, as representatives of the Slovenian National Party, who should understand the argument why it is not reasonable to join the ownership of the Slovenian 2TKK company here that any country should be here, even though we are talking about Hungary, because the Government has sent an agreement or draft, an initiative to conclude an agreement with Hungary. Purely from national interests, from the strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia and also from the fact that the Victory of Jelinčič was present at the protest, at the blockade of Luka Koper 2017, 2018, which was organised precisely because of this story with Hungary. And also here before the National Assembly, when there was a second wave of these protests of workers in the Kori port, so I had the feeling that you supported this idea about the Slovenian port, about the Slovenian port and, of course, about the Slovenian control of the strategic infrastructure. So much for clarification. I would only point out once again that there is no concern; however, the second track will be built, but of course it is in the interest of all of us and, above all, of national interest, to maintain control of the 2TKK exclusively Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u119	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The construction of the second track is, of course, now, returning to this national assembly this morning. Now people watching us from the outside are having a hard time understanding what we are saying all day, given that this investment started a few weeks ago. It is very difficult to speak in the Republic of Slovenia, which infrastructure project is most important. However, the fact that one of the most important projects that has recently begun construction is certainly the construction of a second track. But this project, when I listened to the various debates of MEPs and Members today, is not built for politicians, nor built for construction companies, but is built for the development of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, but also for all the countries with which Slovenia is neighbouring. However, it is a very positive fact that if such a large project, when we are talking about a larger, more important project, Slovenian companies are also building. This is even more important to me because it builds a Slovenian company. Citizens and citizens are, of course, paid in these companies, and also the money they earn goes to our shops, in short, rounding up in the Republic of Slovenia. Today it has been most exposed, as Hungary put it, this is our neighbouring country. Of course, the policy pursued by this government, the foreign ministry, is certainly putting a lot of effort into connecting with our neighbouring countries. This is not about who is now the foreign minister in any country, but it is not about who is the president in which country, but they are always talking on behalf of Slovenia or the neighbouring country or Hungary, Croatia, Italy, Austria or perhaps any other country that is across those countries. And the predictions of some prognosis, speaking only of one country, are Hungary. The previous President of the Government, whom I have not seen in the Chamber or their Members today, was, if I recall correctly, on 28 October 2019 on a visit to Hungary. And I have to admit, I'm going to give him all the credit for visiting neighboring Hungary. But, of course, the media said that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia visited neighbouring Hungary, he probably did not go because of their President, Mr Orbán. When I went to see today what the media had written about that visit, both prime ministers also talked about the construction of a second track. Today, I am hearing from some Members and Members that this has grown on the grassland of this government or on this direction of another track or anyone else. Or the president of the government. I think that's incorrect. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last year we can find that this infrastructure team, which I so call it, is from Minister Vrtovac, the State Secretary, who is with us today, Mihelič, the new leader of 2TKK, the new head of Dars, is making visible progress on the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. They're mostly younger people. And, of course, this state policy, the policy of this National Assembly, will, of course, have to trust once again people who are experts and who work for the development of infrastructure, much more so in the Republic of Slovenia. See, in the previous government, the government of Marjana Sarca, which is not with us today, were for the development of infrastructure, as far as 2TKK, press conference before the business building or in the building, journalists can go to the construction site today. There used to be press conferences for the tunnel of Karavanka in business buildings, and today it can be a press conference when the second track or tunnel of Karavanka is being built. Also, how much ink has been spilled, how much discomfort, especially for the Korosks, that they want a second track — today this second track is being built. Of course, the policy of this National Assembly, this government has given the conditions, this is also the responsibility, and of course the builders are building these successful projects. In short, I must say that I do not understand the proposaler's coming at a time when the second track is being built after the targets set. Let me remind you that we have recently said in the previous government that this track will cost a billion 800, then we have come to a billion 400, today we are building this project with this government that will cost less than a billion. Data are all professional terms, we have contractors, in this case domestically, we have controls, such or other, including civil society. In short, let us give the politicians leave that these conditions that are given to people who are paid for it can build these objects. In this case, I mean, of course, when we talk all morning, that's the second track. In short, I will reject this bill myself, but of course I want all good infrastructure projects second track and all infrastructure facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will also be presented. Mr Aleš Mihelič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. On top of all this, I would like to stress once again that, by amending the legislation we are currently in the process, we are merely restricting opportunities and giving one appearance beyond that that we do not want to talk and we do not want to cooperate and that we consider infrastructure projects only as projects from our entry border to our exit border. Transport corridors are always an international issue and so do we, so we need to connect and, if we find a common language, we also participate. This is not about one country; certainly, the National Assembly will be in successful negotiations or with Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, with anyone, you will be given a decision at the final stage on your tables, that is to say in the National Assembly, so that any concern, according to my opinion, is superfluous. We propose that we do not limit ourselves at this stage to allow us to connect, to cooperate, to talk and to find those common points, of course, as long as the benefits of both the second track project and the logistics and transport infrastructure alone will be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u124	Yes, thank you very much, President. In fact, colleague Podkoršek concluded this debate today. He basically said things that stand, didn't he? The project was cheap. We are currently at the value of about 0.98 billion, in line with the latest amendment of the investment programme by the 2TKK Supervisory Board. We have a project that is under way, all things are standing, and we are actually very close to building this track at the time that is scheduled, and that it will also be able to apply. That's why it makes so much more sense at this point to keep this status quo if you want. A situation such as, with the existing financial structure, without any new training; friction brought by the entry of another country, Hungary, as proposed by the Government, into the ownership structure of the company 2TKK. And that's our main argument. You yourself said that the project is being built because of the entire Slovenian economy and this is also one of our key arguments. What is offered in the initiative to conclude an agreement with Hungary is things that would put at risk certain advantages that the port of Cyprus has right now in the entire structure of the Slovenian economy. The rental of large capacities, which will be increased during the covid crisis of transhipment in the port of Kore, once again break records in all areas, are the spaces that will be needed by the port of Cyprus, the port of Slovenia, and will be necessary for further development not only of Luka Koper, but of course, as we all keep repeating, also with multiplier effects on the entire economy. That is why this point is pointless and stupid, but we cannot give the capacity that our port will need to someone else, because this is one way or another, if you want, some kind of competition or at least hindering the development of the port. Mr Zakrošek also said that there is still a need for broad cooperation with neighbouring countries. No one denies this, of course, it is necessary to maintain contact with all neighbouring countries, with all countries that are transhipping or using the capacities of Slovenia and the port of Cyprus, and therefore we must not risk favouring one of these countries, which is now proposed. The initiative came to the National Assembly, which foresees a 38 % share of Hungary in 2TKK with the possibility of increasing to a control share or a sub-control share. So 38% to 49 for one country and 38 and 11 for others, if you want. And that's also negative. Once again, Luka Koper acts as a neutral port, which does not favour flows that do not favour certain countries, but tries to make its traffic as widely as possible, with as many partners as possible, so precisely because it does not depend on one country or on certain flows, but is also more flexible from this point of view. This is claimed by the representatives of logistics in Slovenia, according to operators in Slovenia, according to employees in Luka Koper, representatives of trade unions and so on. Even defence officials or security experts warn that it would be a mistake, for example, to leave land in the area of the state spatial plan for a port in Cyprus to a foreign country or to some foreign companies. Thus, from all perspectives, this proposal is unnecessary, the limits to serious harm, as Micah said, even in the introduction to some type of national issue of interests, and that is what is the main point. However, we have found, even a year ago, that it is possible to carry out this thing alone, without any risks to foreign investors, and that this is the cheapest way and strategically best way; the way in which the Republic of Slovenia could maintain full control of the operation of 2TKK and, as a result, also the profits generated from this company. What you are proposing is unnecessary, since one part of the railway infrastructure — and this is what I am talking about — would be put into co-ownership by another country for 45 years. With the budgetary resources currently provided by Dars and Luka Koper, we would finance the payment of dividends to Hungary or any country, if you wanted to, but would provide this high return, invested capital and would end up paying substantially more than after the proposed financial structure. Thus, in all respects, this matter is reckless, meaningless, harmful and is therefore proposed. I therefore appeal once again to all of you to support this law at first reading, because today the Government has proven once again that there are no valid reasons, there are no strong arguments on the basis of which you could say with at least a minimum point of rationality, but perhaps you are right. So you simply draw these arguments from some old assumptions that no longer apply. We also have additional options, such as the European funds that have emerged in a new way right now during the co-pid crisis and given the value, if you compare, build yourself or build with the help of a foreign country, there is no dilemma here. If we build ourselves, we build cheaper and maintain complete control. That's how I appeal again. Let's support this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u125	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes. Please sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Michael Prevc has the word. You're giving up. Anya Bah Gibert? No, no, no. Robert Polnar didn't. Boris Doblekar doesn't. We told Eva Dimic not to. Mag. Branko Grimes, no. Gregor Perich? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I'm gonna be a little short. Once again, I would like to point out that, like a member of the SMC as well as a member of the SMC, I will not support both Primorec and the foreign side of this bill in such a form. I believe that it threatens the second track project, which we know that we are all in here, each in our own way, we have put in a lot of effort, political energy, a lot of blood. I think it is crucial that this project, in particular, goes on and that we look a little wider, if you want, we also look through some glasses or European eyes. These are known for such strategic and important infrastructure projects, whose purpose and impact go beyond the narrow national borders, also to interconnect and participate in some joint projects, which then also have the intention of some long-term strategic cooperation. That is why I absolutely see in this construction also the icy countries, not only Hungary, but I would like someone else to tie these friendly countries and our partners to some economic cooperation in this way, to some, if you want, also co-dependence, which is, after all, the fundamental idea and concept of the European Union as it was first created as an economic project for peace, because if we are economically involved, we will not be walking around with a variety of stupidities, either moving borders or dealing with other weapons-related things. So absolutely this project must go on, it must also have some strategic views as well as partners for long-term cooperation. I support both the law and the project in the form it is now. There were also opportunities in the previous government, if anyone wanted to change that, and we saw that these desires and needs were not needed. This project will be carried out as soon as possible for the benefit of Slovenian Railways, Luke Koper and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u128	Good bye to all of you! Today's debate is over for a while. What is the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia if it builds a second track? To make maximum use of this track for its development, for all that one such link can bring. It is therefore, of course, positive to find a strategic partner who will direct traffic there, which will invest further to ensure that this track actually lives. Who could be such a partner? Italy, Croatia have their ports, Austria has a line from Trieste up two fast routes to the border and only Hungary remains. And you would, because someone in Hungarian is not politically close to you, this is the only opportunity for the development of the Republic of Slovenia to open new jobs through the window. That says a lot about you. I cannot help but think of how the Italians, when we had an international meeting, triumphed a few years ago after the first partnership agreement with Hungary with the previous government fell into the water; because capital went to them because they calculated how much additional investment there would be, and they found that in a few years the Trieste would only be on this account, and with it the Republic of Italy had profited more than a billion and a quarter euros. It was a minimum calculation. The one who represented this was the leader of the Italian projects, he could not help but end up saying that he really wanted to know who the idiots – what sort of idiots – were in Slovenia who stopped or opposed such cooperation. I just hope he's following us today because he can see them from LMŠ to Left. Look, if it's going to be an investment like this, it's the sense of partnership to attract extra capital. For further development, for additional jobs, for all that is accompanied by one such infrastructure, then storage spaces and everything else that goes with it. That then gives a positive effect. This will allow for faster development. More importantly, it is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia to further preserve and implement it as a full coastal state, which, of course, requires an active port with appropriate transport connections, which then allows this port to operate with all its development capabilities. Today, when we can see who opposes it, I cannot help but think of that historic Nobel laureate for the economy of Von Hayek: If left-wing people had any idea about anything, especially the economy, they would never be left-handed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u130	Yeah, there was a lot of nonsense and nebulos to hear today in the National Assembly, unfortunately. The debate we have today should not be at all. What you're doing and what's happening is a disruption to this project. It's a distraction. The project has started to build, the financial structure is closed, the money is secured. And look at the fraction, you find yourself and you say, ops, and now a little manual, and we're gonna go look for partners. Why? I don't know. You know that. What you're gonna get out of this, you know that. Secondly, the fact is that there is only and exclusive cooperation with Hungary on the table. Only this initiative is in the National Assembly. You can explain the stories to whom you want, but only this initiative, the initiative to conclude an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary to participate in the construction of the second track of Divac. No other country, only this initiative for cooperation with Hungary. The fact is, Hungary is a good partner of Luke Koper. It's a fact. And the fact is that such a partner will remain. Why? Because the second track, of course, from Kopra to the end, to Hungary, is the shortest route and no company, no entrepreneur is so crazy that it will go through Italy to Austria and Hungary because it takes so long and it is so much and so much more expensive for this. But you're acting like you want to market a hotel and you'd like to attract someone who wants to come to you as a tourist, say, yes, yes, okay, but buy a room, not rent a service, but buy a room. Then we will! Let me tell you where in the world this is how it works? Nowhere! What you do is unnecessary, what you do is harmful, and more expensive for the country is what you propose. So let's think about it one more time. Slovenia does not deserve to work in it in this way, we are able to build the infrastructure ourselves, we have proven, we have closed the financial structure, the project has started to be built and we have carried out this project – indeed, finally – once and for all. After 25 years he started building and not now, let's say we're on the right track to reintroduce the disruptions to this project. Also, on my part, we appeal to remain a sovereign state and build our own infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar, you're saying you didn't sign off on your application. [[…]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, President. The last debate I listened to to to the interference and so on. The interference is introduced by this proposal of the law. The law is in force and I am just wondering where you have been with such proposals before to prevent the participation of the behind countries or strategic partners in such a major project, such an important project for Slovenia. If we know that the value of a billion 800 was previously estimated for this project, but it is now below a billion, then we know what could have happened or what would have happened if we had stayed behind if the government continued to be Marjana Sharca. So thank God that the Slovenian Democratic Party has played such a great role here. The EUR 200 million a strategic partner could invest is not a small number. These countries, which are potential candidates – of course, we have been hearing about Hungary and Orbán all day now, and no one has ever said that, no one has even mentioned it, I don't know where you've been picking it up, that we've been listening to it all day, why we wouldn't let such a strategic partner join such a project. I myself have been a railway driver and I know how much to drive, how much to drive to Hungary, if you mention Hungary, and this is one of the larger, more important partners. But no one said it would be Hungary. 200 million. Rather, by the proposaler Levice, I would expect them to be put into poverty, social, non-governmental organisations or health care, I would rather expect them to propose such a proposal. I feel like I'd be more in place and more written on your skin. I think there is a need to respect the economy here, the free movement of entrepreneurship, initiatives, I don't know why you're making this impossible, you're restricting it; but, of course, according to your socialist agenda. But that's out of date, this model is going down all over the world, wherever he happens to be alive, and you know that Slovenians and Slovenians don't like this model. It is known that there is just a handful that insists on this, but it would be bad for Slovenia, bad for the project, bad for Slovenian railways and bad for all other carriers using the infrastructure of Slovenian railways or also new infrastructure, the second track that is already being built. The second track is in construction, thank God that this government has taken over, the government of Janez Janša, and that the project has finally begun to take place. And I can repeat again what I have already said in the previous debate. If you continued to manage this, then investment in infrastructure would be small, as it has been so far. All the years the railway infrastructure, including the rolling stock, from wagons to locomotives, was neglected. Finally, it is now beginning to move, to acquire new vehicles, to update the tracks, and we know that much still needs to be done. And I would ask you if you're somehow a little more constructive and you're trying to find some strategic partner who's still going to come to our aid because socialism has totally knocked us over; it's totally crushed us. That's why we have what we have. We can't drive these locomotives because of the axle load, because of the three kilovolts that only we have, because the electric power stations simply can't power such powerful locomotives, and really this socialism that you're promoting has left us somewhere in the Kremenčky period. And it would be good to go hand in hand with strategic partners and do projects, good things for Slovenian railways, for our tracks, so that some of this will have our economy and the whole of Slovenia. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot support this socialist proposal of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish has the word, then the mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. In recent times, I have very often started my debate with a review of what the priorities of the government of Janez Janša are, in fact, because this is widely applicable to everything that the government of Janez Janša does. So he's following two priorities. The first priority is to transfer our common social wealth from the working class to the capitalist class. Remember all the generous subsidies that he spends on capital, while saving on the supplements that nurses should receive to work with observant patients. And similar stories, I only mentioned the tip of the iceberg. The second priority pursued by the government of Janez Janša is to consolidate itself in power. He's doing it again in the midst of a capitalist class, but only with part of the capital. One that is cumbersome around the SDS party or more precisely around government parties and which is wired into diverse networks of influences that also turn cities into criminal societies. Let us only remember Dijano Djudžić and Roko Snezić, a close friend and ally of the government of Janez Janša. How are these two priorities pertinent for the question of the second track? One of the closest allies to which Janez Janša relies in the consolidation of his power is Viktor Orbán and the associated companies. This story can be traced to the case of the second track, when the Government wants to attract Hungarian capital to the construction of the second track, more precisely in the amount of the 200-million-dollar deposit it wants to sell for almost half of the company 2TKK, which is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the second track. We don't have the money, so I believe this 200 million-dollar injection from Hungary is needed. But it doesn't really hold. Over the last two years, the price of construction of the second track has fallen by exactly 200 million euros, as the Hungarian stake would otherwise be. From 1.2 billion euros, it fell to 1 billion euros. In addition, funds for the construction of the second track are already fully provided with Slovenian money in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. They were provided by the previous government. And in spite of all its machinations and financial colloquiations used by the government of John Janša, she did not interfere with this budget line. In short, the money to build our own track is already provided. Even if they did not have it, the government is very concerned about how it owes itself to international financial markets at negative interest rates. It does not even wish to draw on the resources available at European Union level for recovery and resilience. But now look at the fraction, the ownership structure of 2TKK must suddenly be entered by Hungarians Viktor Orbán under significantly less favourable conditions from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia than would be the funds that could be acquired by borrowing. While, once again, this is not necessary because these funds are already provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, such an action of allowing Hungarians to enter the Slovenian second track is paid as much on the Hungarian side as it does in Slovenia. A 3% return is expected for the duration of the concession. During this time, Slovenia would pay not only EUR 200 million, but almost twice as much money. In addition, Hungary can look forward to an additional €43 million in public contracts related to the construction of a second track, as the documents of previous negotiations with Hungary have revealed, and there are also 30,000 square metres in the port of Kopa. Yes, even within the concession area! In short, it is the sale of the basic strategic Slovenian infrastructure and thus the disposal of the work of Slovenian sovereignty in the infrastructure and economic field. Why – just so that the capital around Viktor Orbán will earn. Only so that little Janek will pay the great Victor all the political services he owes him. And that's why I'm going to vote for a change of law, like we brought to the table in Levica. It is consistent with what was already at the beginning of the adoption of the second track and related legislation back in 2017, and this is, no other country, any external financial injection enters the ownership structure of 2TKK. The second track should be Slovenian investment and Slovenian basic infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get ready to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! 11 days separate us from the 64th anniversary of the creation of Luke Koper and 64 years from what ugly and incompetent communists have created a company that grows and develops and all these years increases the load and gives work to tens of thousands of workers and workers. We simply need to be grateful to our ancestors, their parents, that they have set up this company, that it has been built and that this company is constantly growing and is developing and providing prosperity to the Slovenes and Slovenes. We must also be proud that transport has increased so that the railway line needs to be upgraded from one to another. And the moral obligation of the heirs is that the assets of the predecessors do not start or sell out. This is our moral obligation and the financial structure of the second track is closed, sustainable and favourable. We must be aware that there has been a government proposal at the table in the National Assembly, which, for a contribution of 200 million euros, can be built about 5 kilometres of rail on the 400km section, we are entering a strategic disruption into the Slovenian Railway System. Once again, with a cartridge that allows the construction of 5 kilometres of rail on the 400km track, we are entering a systemic disturbance. And of course that's not good. We strongly oppose that in the SAB. We need to strengthen trade routes across Slovenia. We must be competitive, but we must not create the conditions that could cause Slovenia to be in a subordinate position at any time or in a position to be blackmailed by anyone. No country is looking for a strategic partner in a way that introduces a strategic malfunction into its rail system with an input that allows one percent of the rail network to be built on the route mentioned above. And we must fight this with determination. I have already said in the debate that this is as if the United Kingdom would leave control of the Gibraltar Margin to anyone else, or the Egyptians to the Suez Canal, or Panamanian to anyone else. And it's just not working! It's a strategic mistake. This does not mean that a new load will come, but only means that the neighbouring country will be able to exercise its interests at any time in Slovenia. This is simply irresponsible and unacceptable and irresponsible also to our ancestors, who have created us a very good foundation, a foundation which must also be preserved and upgraded by the present and future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Ciegler, get ready Mojca Boxer. [[advertising from the hall]] You're checking out? [[Yeah.]] Mojca the Boxer has a word, get ready [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u138	Thank you very much. When we heard about the ancestors, I remember with great respect my grandfather, who was a railwayman, and for us here sitting here, he created this country and also this infrastructure. Once again, I would like to say that the entry of foreign capital does not mean any exploitation, but rather good. Hungary is a neighbouring country. It is not the case that Hungary has no choice. I don't know if you look at the tiny neighbouring ports in Cyprus and in Trieste — no, sorry, on the River and in Trieste — you'll see that they invest quite a lot of money in development. Croatia is also investing heavily in the development of road infrastructure, as well as railway infrastructure. So relying on Hungarians to choose Luka Koper as a rule makes no sense. Furthermore, Hungary is not the only one. The railway through Hungary leads to central Europe, leads to Eastern Europe, leads to Russia, and in connections also to countries outside Europe. Hungary's private capital, which will be included in the investment, has the task of effectively spending and also effectively controlling the investment that will take place in Slovenia. Why was there a referendum on the second track? Not because they didn't need it, but because people doubted that the investment could be as successful as it was planned at the time. Therefore, with the additions that have taken place in the planning of this government, this project has become realistic and feasible. It's hard for me to see the tolls of trucks running on our highways, even though, of course, our tolls were somehow paying off our tolls; these toll trucks that could be loaded on trains. They'd pollute the air less. On the other hand, personal traffic, i.e. traffic for persons, is lagging behind light years for other countries. If you see, if you're driving through France with TGV, you're in two hours from Brussels, Paris. You are with us within two hours from Sežana to Divaca, so poorly developed railway infrastructure. Instead of being labour mobile instead of having the possibility of clean air instead of getting less sick, we have a bunch of road traffic and we have a poor health situation. Hungarian capital will be a supervisory function. It will no longer happen as it has been in the past, if you remember the famous zemonic cartel agreement, there will be no more annexes on the annex, but there will be some control over everything. However, because I believe, otherwise I do not believe that anything would be planned in advance, but as the Germans say: Vertauen is the same gute aber Controls is the same besser. I believe that Hungary, as a strategic partner, will also be able to help us to exercise our economic interests in Eastern and Central Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's six-hour debate is about why Slovenia is lagging behind. This is a school example of why it is easy for the Member States of the European Union, our neighbours too, to move ahead in a developmental sense on the left and on the right. I agree with Mr Draganjo, we had many discussions because he was an excellent businessman – perhaps still, I do not know where he is – who says that patching up the bank hole meant a 10-year developmental backlog of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, transport infrastructure has a function to connect; to connect Slovenian villages, Slovenian cities, to connect countries and to connect continents. It pains me that today's debate is also very much in the field of foreign policy. Now that this government has finally greatly lifted the specific weight of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union and wider with all ministers, this country actually wants to be trampled because it cannot actually succeed in this country. Now that we are invited to Med7 for the first time in September or autumn, the wider European public will in practice also make it clear that Slovenia is an additional maritime state by having an excellent and beautiful window into the world. Now that we count something in Group C5, this is clearly blocked, like this law is a blockage in the investment that has started. I have to apologize, we don't know how to make a model, we know how to work, we do a second track. The execution started, it's true, it's too late. I wonder why no one is protesting because today the details of the draft agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and one of the behind states have been discussed. This draft agreement, supported by the Foreign Policy Committee, still has a degree of internal secrecy and is publicly discussed on some parameters of this Agreement, which are negotiating elements of the negotiating ground for negotiations between Slovenia and the latter. This is only about Hungary because it wants to influence that I'm supposed to, I don't know, replace this neighbor or something? I just don't understand. There was also talk about Prekmurje. Of course, what does Prekmurje have to do with the second track? That's what I was wondering at the beginning of our term. Yeah, a lot. At the time when we started intensive talks with Luka Koper in the 2004-2008 mandate to build a logistics centre in the Beltinci area, Beltinci Municipality, the idea soon passed away from the Pahor government until the next governments. Now she's come back to life, thank God, all the recognition of Luke Koper, the equity company. I cannot, and I cannot, and I do not want to influence the business decision, if I understand correctly if my information is correct, it is their strategic decision to invest the logistics centre in Beltinci. I believe that all Members and Members know exactly what a logistics centre means. In this context, I am counting somewhere in the far future, unfortunately not tomorrow, there will be quite a few jobs here. Previously we adopted the Resolution on Transport Infrastructure and there is also the planned Beltinci railway line. So, indeed, this law is turbulence in this investment, today's debate is seriously detrimental to the foreign policy reputation of this country and therefore the law must be rejected. I'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-05-12-SDZ8-Izredna-72.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of Divac – Koper is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 43 to 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 72nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
